 Annual Report 
and Accounts 
2016
GB Group plc (‘GBG’) Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Introduction
GBG is a global specialist in 
Identity Data Intelligence.  
We help organisations  
make decisions about the 
customers they serve and  
the people they employ.
Strategic Report 
01–29
Highlights 2016 01
At a Glance 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Business Model 06
Market Review 08
Our Vision 10
Strategic Priorities in Action 11
Key Performance Indicators 14
Chief Executive’s Review 16
Global Business Case Study 18
Business Review 20
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 22
Finance Review 24
Corporate Social Responsibility 27
Corporate Governance  
30–44
Directors and Officers 30
Corporate Governance 32
Directors’ Report 37
Report on Directors’ Remuneration 39
Statement of Responsibilities  44
Financial Statements  
45–85
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of GB Group Plc 45
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 46
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 47
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 48
Consolidated Balance Sheet 49
Company Balance Sheet 50
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 51
Company Cash Flow Statement 52
Notes to the Accounts 53
Useful Information 85 
www.gbgplc.com
Visit us online to understand 
more about how we use 
identity data intelligently. Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
01
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
73,401
57,283
41,835
2016 2015 2014
14,776
11,844
7,848
2016 2015 2014
15,000
9,000
3,000
12,000
6,000
0
10.6
7.9
5.5
2016 2015 2014
6
2
8
10
12
4
0
13,428
10,790
7,164
2016 2015 2014
15,000
9,000
3,000
12,000
6,000
0
Operational Highlights
• Loqate, which became part of the  
Group in April 2015, reached  
profitability earlier than anticipated  
and finished the year ahead of 
management expectations.
• Development of CitizenSafe®, GBG’s  
public identity verification service  
as part of the UK government’s  
GOV.UK Verify platform.
• Strong growth in international  
revenues, increasing to 26% of  
Group revenues (2015: 19%),  
reflecting success in expanding our 
operations outside the UK.
• Growing levels of new business from  
major blue chip organisations  
including British Airways and HSBC.
• Deferred revenue balances increased  
to £13.8 million (2015: £9.9 million),  
giving strong visibility for the year  
ahead.
1 Derived from adjusted operating profit less net finance 
costs and tax.
2 Profits before amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
share-based payments charges, exceptional items, share 
of results from associates, net finance costs and tax.
Group revenue (£’000)
£73.4 million
Adjusted EBITDA (£’000)
£14.8 million
Adjusted earnings per share
1 
(pence)
10.6p
Adjusted operating profit
2 
(£’000)
£13.4 million
GBG has had another strong year achieving record revenues and 
delivering profitability ahead of market expectations. This is testament  
to the hard work, dedication and talent of our excellent team.
This was achieved whilst simultaneously increasing our operating expenditure on the development  
of new products, expanding our international operations and strengthening our management team. 
As a result we have entered the new financial year with strong momentum and excellent prospects.
Chief Executive’s  
Review
 Read more on page 16
Highlights 2016 02
Strategic Report
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Our Clients
We currently support over 6,000 clients across the 
world, in both the private and public sector.
The organisations we serve need identity data 
intelligence to protect themselves from financial 
crime or regulatory non-compliance and to  
improve the overall experience they offer 
customers – with the ultimate goal of improving 
their overall business.
Our technology spans employee screening, 
customer on-boarding and fraud management 
across all B2C sectors. We support customers 
globally in traditional banking, government, 
utilities, retail and transport as well as newly 
emerging industries such as eCommerce, online 
gaming, cryptocurrency and mobile payments.
As we have grown, our most successful clients have 
grown and many of our client relationships stretch 
back more than 20 years.
At a Glance
Data is the fuel of the digital economy. 
GBG enables clients to connect instantly 
to over 300 third-party datasets, helping 
our clients focus on improving their 
customers’ experience while adhering  
to their own internal risk management, 
fraud or compliance procedures.
 In the digital world where most of 
us live, our identities are continually 
defined by the billions of data bytes 
we share. 03
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Identity can be defined as the characteristics 
by which an individual is known. Today, several 
elements build our identity and every individual has 
thousands of characteristics that can be gleaned 
from a wide range of data sources. The more 
identity data points analysed, the better informed 
business decisions will be and the better the 
customer experience.
Attributed
• Name & address
• Passport
• Payment details
• Education qualifications
Behavioural
• Interests
• Likes
• Dislikes
• Usage patterns
Biometric
• Fingerprints
• Retina
• Voice
• DNA
Digital
• Device ID
• IP address
• Social ID
• Cookies
This is where identity data intelligence comes in. 
GBG’s technology takes identity data from multiple 
sources and enables organisations to make clear 
decisions about the customers they serve and the 
people they employ. 
How We View Identity
International Revenue
26%
People Verified
4 billion+
Active Fraud Solutions
47 countries
Identity Registration and Document Validation
190+ countries
Active customers in
70 countries
Team members in 
21 locations in 13 countries 04
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
2001
2004
2002
Chairman’s Statement
 We have invested heavily in talent and 
technology during the year and are well 
positioned for the many opportunities  
being generated worldwide by the need  
for identity data intelligence.
 David Rasche
 Chairman
Number of global 
internet users passes 
500 million.
I am extremely pleased with GBG’s performance 
again this year. Revenues and profits continued 
to show strong growth with the Group delivering 
adjusted operating profits
1
 ahead of market 
expectations. This was achieved on top of the 
additional investment of £3.4 million during the 
year on increasing the scale and reach of our 
international operations, strengthening the senior 
management team and further developing our 
extensive product range.
Revenues increased by 28% to £73.4 million  
(2015: £57.3 million), of which just over half (16%) 
was organic growth
2
. Even more pleasing was the 
translation of this strong top line performance 
to the adjusted operating profit line with a 24% 
increase to £13.4 million (2015: £10.8 million) and 
an increase in adjusted earnings per share of 34% 
to 10.6 pence (2015: 7.9 pence).
This performance was a direct result of the 
continuing hard work, passion and dedication  
of the GBG team in delivering our strategy and  
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to them  
on behalf of the Board and shareholders.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a 12.4% increase 
in the dividend to 2.08 pence (2015: 1.85 pence), 
continuing our progressive dividend growth  
which we regard as an important component  
of our shareholder return. The dividend is  
subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 26 July 2016.  
Upon approval, the dividend will be paid on  
26 August 2016. GBG will, once again, offer 
eligible shareholders the choice to reinvest  
their dividends back into GBG shares by way  
of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. 
GB Information 
Management rebrands 
to GB Group, focusing on 
providing customer insight 
and contact information. 
Launched the world’s first 
electronic ID verification 
service, URU, in 
partnership with BT.
1 Adjusted operating profit means profits before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, share-based 
payment charges, exceptional items, share of results 
from associates, net finance costs and tax.
2 Adjusting for constant currency. 05
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
2011
2013
2014
2015
2012
2007
2006
2010
Outlook 
The growing market for identity data 
intelligence solutions continues to present 
strong opportunity for our products and I am 
confident that GBG’s clear leadership in this 
area will fuel further growth. We have invested 
heavily in talent and technology during the 
year and are well positioned for the many 
opportunities being generated worldwide 
by the need for identity data intelligence.
We are naturally disappointed that Richard Law 
has indicated his desire to step down as Chief 
Executive once a suitable successor has been 
found but fully understand and support his 
family-based reasons. Our excellent management 
team is ensuring that the business continues to 
thrive while we find the best possible successor. 
The continued success and excellent long-term 
prospects for GBG should enable us to attract the 
highest calibre of talent to take the Group to even 
greater future success.
D A Rasche
Chairman
Launched international identity 
verification service covering  
21 countries.
Released first version of 
eTrace, a deep-dive tracing 
and investigation service.
Moved to  
AIM listing.
Extended capabilities to include people 
tracing and driving licence checking 
with acquisition of Data Discoveries and 
Advanced Checking Solutions.
Became the UK’s second largest 
provider of address management 
solutions with acquisition of Capscan.
Launched ID3global to 
provide all ID verification 
services through a single API.
With acquisitions of TMG.tv and CRD, became  
UK’s largest criminal records checking agency, 
able to offer clients full ID and ‘Right to Work’ 
verification for employees.
Acquired Loqate, providing a base in Silicon 
Valley for our US-focused operations and 
enabling us to bring together all the address 
and identity data behind its solutions into 
one global platform.
 
Rebranded to GBG. 
GBG Connexus, built on eTrace platform,  
wins ‘Most Innovative Newcomer‘ at UK’s  
Retail Fraud awards.
Completed acquisitions of Transactis, a customer 
transactional data aggregator, and DecTech, 
providing i-fraud prevention capabilities and an 
enlarged customer base in APAC.
One billion internet  
users worldwide.
Apple launches  
the new iPhone.
Two billion 
internet users 
worldwide.
Number of global internet  
users passes three billion. 180+ Partners/300+ Datasets
Data
Data
ID Registration
Technology
ID Veriﬁcation
ID Engage
ID Employ 
& 
Comply 
ID Fraud 
& Risk 
Management 
ID Trace & 
Investigate
IDENTITY DATA INTELLIGENCE
Fraud
analytics
Finding
people
Age
veriﬁcation
Address
validation
Data
cleansing
Right to
Work checks
Online criminal
record checks
Behaviour
monitoring
AML checks
and monitoring
Customer
registration
Marketing campaign
management
Driving licence
checks
ID Registration
Includes software and services for quick 
and accurate customer registration, 
address lookup and identity data validation.
ID Employ & Comply 
Provides background checks through 
online veriﬁcation and authentication 
of individuals, enabling organisations 
to safeguard, recruit and engage 
with conﬁdence.
ID Veriﬁcation
Provides the ability to verify consumers’ 
identities remotely, without the physical 
presentation of documentation.
ID Engage
Provides database services so our clients 
can better understand, target and retain 
their customers and offers accurate and 
up-to-date identity information for their 
contact strategies.
ID Trace & Investigate 
Provides the largest and most accurate 
picture of the UK’s population. The recent 
addition of social media open-source 
intelligence provides global reach.
ID Fraud & Risk Management 
Provides fraud detection, risk management 
and customer on-boarding solutions.
06
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Business Model
We continuously build and nurture partnerships 
with data providers around the world to ensure  
the breadth of identity data at the heart of our 
technology is unrivalled. 07
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Global Reach
With increased global movement of people, the 
opening of new markets and the huge growth in 
cross-border eCommerce, organisations need to 
know individuals are who they say they are. Of 
the six product and service areas that make up 
GBG’s core offering, four are currently equipped 
to work internationally, and it is our goal to build 
international data into the remaining two in the 
near term.
Everything GBG does has a global future. For 
example, our identity assurance proposition, 
CitizenSafe, certified by the UK Government, 
enables users of government services to verify 
their identity instantly. It is currently a UK-based 
proposition but has equal application for any 
government, anywhere, that is looking to move its 
service delivery onto a digital platform.
GBG is building the runway for future growth. 
Once a platform is in place, solutions can be rolled 
out at low cost across all markets.
Specialist
It is not only our global reach that differentiates 
GBG from our competitors; we are specialists in 
our field. With our wide base of data partnerships, 
we lead the market. We bring together more 
data than anyone else in our field; we are data 
agnostic – meaning our technology is designed 
to assimilate and analyse data from any source 
and in any format. We continuously develop new 
propositions, often in collaboration with our 
customers, so they can respond to fast-changing 
market and regulatory requirements.
Whilst competitors may be larger than GBG, they 
have a more limited data pool from which to 
source intelligence. We are trusted partners of the 
numerous external organisations who share data 
with us. This also includes strong relationships 
with our largest competitors; while we compete 
with them for specific solutions, we also see them 
as strategic partners for identity-related data, 
especially credit data. This concept of ‘coopetition’ 
– co-operation with competitors – places GBG as 
the leader at the very heart of the global identity 
data intelligence market.
Innovative 
Our identity is no longer defined simply by a 
name, address or phone number. Mobile devices, 
email and social IDs, online behavioural patterns 
and biometric data increasingly identify us. Mass 
adoption of new sharing economy and mobile 
services are redefining global commerce.
GBG is perfectly placed to support the new 
digital economy. We enable companies to take 
new business models to market. Failure to adapt 
means running the risk of being leapfrogged 
by those who do.
New proposition development and continued 
innovation is vital in our industry. We approach 
this internally within our own technology team; 
approximately 30 per cent of our staff work in  
technology development – fundamentally our 
R&D resource. But we also develop partnerships 
in key areas of expertise, particularly relating 
to use of data in specific application areas like 
Politically Exposed or Sanctioned Persons (‘PEPs’) 
and understanding what is happening on the 
‘dark web’ with regards to client data so we can 
understand what we need to develop to help 
protect us all.
How We Create Value
 Every day, around 
the world, trillions  
of decisions are 
taken about people.  
The decision- 
making process  
will increasingly  
rely upon solid 
intelligence, drawn 
from the ever 
increasing volumes 
of data available to 
organisations.
 
  08
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
95%+
500
million
Market Review
We build services to support the digital economy.  
The World Economic Forum estimates that up to  
900 million additional people, mainly in the developing 
world, will gain access to the internet by 2017.
1 billion+ 
emails are sent
2
20 million+ 
Google searches
2
360hrs
of video uploaded
2
10 million+
pieces of content shared
2
$12.5 million+
eCommerce sales
2
1,200+  
babies born
3
ID Verification
Sources: 
1   World Economic Forum:  
Digital transformation of Industries
2  DOMO
3  UNICEF
In just five minutes:
 Products will evolve into services, 
and services into experiences, with 
data serving as the backbone of 
their delivery
1
.
 95% or more of Millennials 
say they want their brands  
to court them actively. 
Source: Accenture
500 million identities were 
stolen or exposed online in 2015 
according to a report by digital 
security firm Symantec.
ID Engage 09
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
2013–2014 2014–2015
75%
+14%
in three  
years
212,000
December 2013
333,000
December 2015
0
10
20
50
80
30
60
90
40
70
100
%
 Provide incorrect address
 Provide incorrect date of birth
 Provide incorrect email address
 Never
 Most of the time
 Some of the time
 Always
ID Registration ID Trace & Investigate
ID Employ & Comply ID Fraud & Risk Management
75% of companies have fallen 
victim to a fraud incident in  
the past year, a rise of 14%  
in just three years.
Source: Kroll Global Fraud Report 2015–2016
Net migration to the UK, in  
year ending December 2015, 
was 333,000. This was a 57% 
increase since December 2013.
Source: ONS
Over 25% of consumers provide intentionally incorrect  
information when submitting their personal details online.
Source: Verve
In 2014–2015, fraud suffered  
by British Retail Consortium 
members increased 55% 
compared to the previous year.
Source: BRC 10
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
        
 
 
 
Departments
Trust   Innovation   Quality
Excellence   Respect
People
Objectives
Strategies
Products
Objectives
Strategies
Customers
Objectives
Strategies
Process
Objectives
Strategies
Brand
Objectives
Strategies
1
2
3
4
5
To be the leader in
Identity Data Intelligence
Resource 
appropriately
…informing business decisions
between people and organisations globally
Our Vision
Our Strategic Priorities
1
People
We will focus on the engagement of our fantastic team 
to retain and grow what we believe is some of the best 
talent in our industry.
2
Products
We will acquire and develop products that extend our 
unique value propositions in every market in which we 
operate.
3
Customers
We will focus on bringing on board major brands that 
can utilise products across the whole GBG portfolio – 
in every region of the world.
4
Process
We will continuously improve and innovate the way 
we do business in line with customer and employee 
feedback with the aim of making GBG an organisation 
that is easy to work with.
5
Brand
We will invest in our brand to make sure it is fully 
recognised in all of our target markets and areas 
of operation. 11
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Strategic Priorities in Action
Everyone at GBG is familiar with our Vision, Objectives and Strategies 
(‘VOS2020’) framework. It is applied to all areas and levels of our business, 
enabling every individual to contribute to our success towards 2020. 
Through regular reports, it is easy to understand how we are progressing 
against Group, department, team and individual objectives. Here are  
some of the key VOS2020 highlights from the last 12 months.
Our strategy in action
People
1
Products
2
Customers
3
Process
4
Brand
5
Recruited a Chief People Officer to unify our people policies and 
programmes globally.
ü
– – – –
Launched strategic improvement plans to enhance our customer service 
and product support capabilities.
– –
ü
– –
Successfully began moving our core products onto the cloud to support 
future growth.
–
ü
– – –
Created a global Engagement Ambassador programme to represent  
our teams in all locations.
ü
– – – –
Improved the on-boarding process for customers to enable  
new account set-up within 24 hours.
– – –
ü
–
Acquired California-based Loqate to enhance our access to,  
and understanding of, location data.
–
ü
– – –
Rolled out a new UK website onto a global platform that will support 
all GBG sites.
– – – –
ü
Successfully unified all sub-brands under the GBG identity.
– – – –
ü
Migrated all former URU customers onto the wholly owned GBG 
ID3global platform.
– –
ü
– –
Launched CitizenSafe® to support the UK’s delivery of government 
services digitally.
–
ü
– – –
Rolled out our Voice of the Customer programme across all touch-points 
to encourage continuous feedback on the way we work.
– – –
ü
–
Created an in-house Mergers and Acquisitions (‘M&A’) team to focus  
on developing a high quality acquisitions strategy.
–
ü
– – –
Formalised our data strategy and compliance team to support our  
customers in using the correct data, appropriately.
– –
ü
– –
Rolled out our share save scheme to all employees, globally, offering all  
our teams the chance to share in our success.
ü
– – – –
Appointed a Head of New Proposition Development to drive 
product innovation.
–
ü
– – – 12
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Strategic Priorities in Action continued
Strategic Priority 1
People
What We’ve Achieved
In September 2015, the People Team was 
successfully reorganised under the leadership 
of our new Chief People Officer, James Miller. 
The team now operates globally with sub-
teams focused on Recruitment, Operations 
and Talent Development. We have simplified 
the way in which performance is monitored 
and created a strong, consistent framework 
for personal development that will ensure we 
grow and nurture all our teams consistently.
In March 2016, our UK Investors in People 
accreditation was upgraded to ‘silver’ 
status – reflecting the significant focus and 
investment GBG has made in its people.
Next Year
This year we will roll out a new intranet 
across all our teams to provide a digital 
communications platform, personalised 
to provide relevant role and location 
information.
We will emphasise the role of our managers 
in maintaining team engagement and we 
will create a digital talent recruitment and 
development platform to enable all our 
managers to work consistently.
Strategic Priority 2
Products
What We’ve Achieved
We launched a number of new upgrades to 
our products last year, including CitizenSafe 
and the addition of social media data to GBG 
Connexus, which provides additional tools 
for international fraud and investigation 
teams. In November, GBG Connexus won Best 
Newcomer, Most Innovative Online Product 
and Best Cross-Functional Product at the 
2015 Retail Fraud Awards in the UK.
The migration of our core products onto 
a cloud-based platform through Rackspace 
means we can support the future growth 
of our business, unconstrained by data 
storage limits. 
Next Year
We will continue to focus our product 
development on making all products 
available globally. We will continue to source 
high quality, innovative data to improve our 
capabilities in our core markets in North 
America and the Asia Pacific region.
We will continue to ensure that all our 
products are compliant with the latest 
legislation in country, including changes 
to data protection regulations in the EU 
and Payment Card Industry (‘PCI’) security 
standards across the world. 
Strategic Priority 3
 
Customers
What We’ve Achieved
We launched a comprehensive Voice of the 
Customer programme, focused initially on 
our UK customer base which represented 
81 per cent of our revenue. Our customers 
gave very positive and constructive feedback 
which has now been used to create strategic 
improvement plans in the key areas of 
customer service and ‘getting help’.
The number of existing customers buying 
more than one GBG product has risen 
significantly, contributing to our continued 
organic revenue growth. The number of 
customers spending over £1 million with us 
also grew.
Next Year
This year our focus is on serving customers 
faster and more efficiently. We will create 
global service agreements with all our major 
customers, enabling them to get maximum 
value out of their relationship with GBG.  
We will support each with a dedicated 
Account Team, focused on creating an 
effortless experience for our customers, 
and their end consumers. 13
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Strategic Priority 4
Process
What We’ve Achieved
We have implemented a clear plan for re-
engineering, and then automating, our core 
processes. Last year we focused on new 
customer on-boarding with the stated aim of 
setting up new customer accounts within 24 
hours. We now successfully on-board 80 per 
cent of customers within this timeframe and 
will continue to improve on this in 2016–2017.
We created the infrastructure to automate 
our entire lead nurturing and customer 
management process. Our clear objective 
is to improve the quality of data and 
information within our own systems to 
enable us to serve customers better.
Next Year
We will continue to develop our products in 
a Software as a Service (‘SaaS’) environment, 
enabling customers to integrate our products 
easily across all locations.
We will continue our programme of strategic 
improvement plans based on the direct 
feedback from our customers.
 
We will further improve the speed at  
which we integrate acquired businesses  
into the Group.
Brand
What We’ve Achieved
We created a dedicated, globally experienced, 
Brand team to manage the development 
of the GBG brand across all assets and 
communications media. A strong focus on PR 
and investor communications indicated that 
GBG’s Share of Voice in the UK last year was 
already at 5 per cent – a figure we can improve 
upon in 2016–2017.
We launched a new GBG web platform in 
July 2015 which will ensure that all future 
GBG websites will be developed within one 
framework to optimise brand recognition 
and user experience.
Strategic Priority 5
Next Year
We will enhance our investor experience by 
creating a dedicated Investor Zone to support 
our results and investor communications 
schedule.
We will create a new global website and 
dedicated in-country sites for all our key 
markets to provide consistent information 
on our brand, what we do and why.
We will enhance our communications 
programme with thought leadership 
that supports our brand development 
as ‘the champion of the disrupter’. 14
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
4.0
7.4
2015
2016
8 6 0 2 4
Earnings per share – basic (pence)
7.9
10.6
2015
2016
12 10 8 6 0 2 4
Earnings per share – adjusted basic (pence)
15.0
14.8
2015
2016
15 12 9 0 3 6
Organic revenue growth (%)
66.5
31.9
2015
2016
80 60 0 20 40
Identity Proofing revenue growth (%)
20.2
25.1
31.9
2015
2016
30 20 0 10
Identity Solutions revenue growth (%)
10,790
13,428
2015
2016
15 9 12 0 3 6
Adjusted operating profit (£’000)
2015
2016
20 15 0 5 10
18.8
18.3
Adjusted operating profit (%)
36.9
28.1
2015
2016
40 30 0 10 20
Revenue growth (%)   
11,844
14,776
2015
2016
15 9 12 0 3 6
Adjusted EBITDA (£’000)
20.7
20.1
2015
2016
25 15 20 0 5 10
Adjusted EBITDA (%)
Earnings per Share
Earnings per share is calculated as basic earnings 
per share from continuing operations on both an 
adjusted and unadjusted basis.
Key Performance Indicators
The Board monitors the Group’s progress 
against its strategic objectives and the financial 
performance of the Group’s operations on a 
regular basis. Performance is assessed against 
the strategy and budgets using financial and 
non-financial measures. The following details the 
principal Key Performance Indicators (‘KPI’s) used 
by the Group, giving the basis of calculation and 
the source of the underlying data. A summary of 
performance against these KPIs is given below.
The Group uses the following primary measures 
to assess the performance of the Group and 
its propositions.
Financial
Revenue
Revenue and revenue growth are used for  
internal performance analysis to assess the 
execution of our strategies. Organic growth is  
also measured, although the term ‘organic’ is not  
a defined term under IFRS and may not, therefore, 
be comparable with similarly titled measures 
reported by other companies. Organic growth  
is defined by the Group as year-on-year continuing 
revenue growth, excluding acquisitions, until the 
date of their anniversary and will be reported at 
each reporting interval.
Non-financial Employee Engagement
Employee engagement is a key 
focus area for the business in order 
to retain and grow what we believe 
is some of the best talent in our 
industry.
Adjusted Operating Profit
This is used by the Group for internal 
performance analysis to assess the execution  
of our strategies.
Adjusted EBITDA
This is used by the Group for internal performance 
analysis to assess the execution of our strategies.
2016
>80%
2015
>80% 15
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
19.3
26.4
2015
2016
30 20 10 0
International revenue as a percentage of total revenue (%)
9,906
13,752
2015
2016
15 12 9 6 0 3
15,778
12,415
2015
2016
20 15 10 0 5
Cash (£’000)
Deferred income balance (£’000)
60
70
2015
2016
80 60 40 20 0
Countries with an active customer presence
International Revenue as a 
Percentage of Total Revenue
This is an important internal measure for  
the Group to assess progress towards  
expanding our international operations.
Cash
Cash and cash equivalent balances are used by  
the Group for internal performance analysis  
and by investors to assess progress against 
outlook statements.
Deferred Income Balance
Deferred income, which is included in our 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, is the amount 
of invoiced business in excess of the amount 
recognised as revenue. This is an important  
internal measure for the business and represents 
the amount that we will record as revenue in  
our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income in future periods. Trends may vary as 
business conditions change.
Countries with an Active 
Customer Presence
This is an important internal measure for the 
Group to assess progress towards expanding  
our international operations. 16
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
57.3
73.4
2015
2016
80 60 0 20 40
Revenue (£m)
Chief Executive’s Review
GBG has delivered another strong financial 
performance this year and we continue to extend 
our leadership of the identity data intelligence 
market in the UK and globally. This is a direct 
result of the hard work and talent of the GBG team 
and I am very grateful for their continued effort 
and commitment.
During the year we increased our operating 
expenditure on developing new products, 
expanding our international operations and 
strengthening our management team. We also 
established a presence in the USA through the 
successful acquisition of Loqate based in  
San Francisco. These investments, coupled  
with growing markets both in the UK and  
globally, have enabled us to start the new 
year well and I consider we have good growth 
prospects in the year ahead.
Financial Performance 
GBG’s financial performance has continued to 
improve with revenues increasing by 28% to  
£73.4 million (2015: £57.3 million). Organic 
revenue growth was 16% with the balance 
primarily from the acquisition of Loqate in  
April 2015. 
As a result of this growth, we reported a  
24% increase in adjusted operating profit to  
£13.4 million (2015: £10.8 million), ahead of 
market expectations.
Deferred revenue in the balance sheet (in respect 
of amounts already invoiced under annual or 
multi-year contracts, but which will be recognised 
in future periods) increased by £3.9 million to 
£13.8 million, giving strong revenue visibility for 
the financial year ahead.
 We estimate GBG’s addressable market 
globally to be in the order of £7 billion and  
we continue to attract new opportunities 
across the world with both existing  
and new clients.
 Richard Law
 Chief Executive
Strong revenue growth
+28% Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
17
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The Company continues to be highly cash 
generative and cash balances at 31 March 2016 
were £12.4 million (2015: £15.8 million) following 
payments of £14.5 million for the cash purchase 
of Loqate, the settlement of earn-outs on prior 
acquisitions and the payment of dividends to 
shareholders. Net cash balances were £8.7 million 
(2015: £11.4 million). 
As a result of the above, GBG is well positioned 
to pursue its strategy of continued growth in the 
year ahead.
The Global Identity Data Intelligence Market 
Consumers and citizens are increasingly moving 
to transacting in real time across international 
borders. New business models, for instance in the 
sharing economy, are disrupting the way things 
are done and the world’s governments are moving 
towards making access to their services as easy 
and convenient as that for online banking.
These changes benefit us all but at the same time 
bring with them new risks of fraud, identity theft 
and cybercrime. GBG’s Identity Data Intelligence 
services constantly analyse many terabytes of 
information and provide specific intelligence 
to organisations in over 70 countries enabling 
them to address these issues and comply with 
legislation without detracting from the customer 
experience.
We estimate GBG’s addressable market globally 
to be of the order of £7 billion and we continue 
to attract new opportunities across the world 
with both existing and new clients. An illustration 
of this is the strengthening of our relationship 
with HSBC who, this year, implemented our GBG 
Instinct solution for application fraud in its 25th 
country. The bank’s use of our software across 
territories as diverse as Asia Pacific, Europe, 
the Middle East, and Central & South America, 
highlights the growing importance of having a 
consistent global approach to combatting fraud 
and identity theft. 
Identity Proofing (‘IDP’) 
Our IDP business, which provides electronic 
identity verification, fraud prevention and 
employee screening solutions, saw revenues 
increase by 32% to £33.2 million (2015: £25.2 
million). Adjusted operating profit was up by  
54% to £6.6 million (2015: £4.3 million).
GBG ID3global identity verification service 
continues to be implemented on a worldwide 
scale. This service can now provide identity 
verification solutions across 53 countries, up  
from 35 last year, offering coverage for 59%  
of the world’s population or 4.35 billion people. 
GBG’s fraud prevention products, GBG Instinct 
and GBG Predator, were installed into 47 countries 
at the year end with customers such as Barclays, 
HSBC, Ping An Puhui (China’s largest consumer 
lender) and Maybank (Malaysia’s largest bank). 
The growth in fraud internationally in the 
financial services sector continued to drive strong 
demand during the year and we achieved our 
first solution sale in South America with HSBC.
In addition, we developed our CitizenSafe 
identity assurance service as a certified 
provider on the UK Government’s GOV.UK 
Verify platform and we are currently deploying 
this service working with Government Data 
Services, part of the Cabinet Office. 
Identity Solutions (‘IDS’) 
Our IDS business, which provides identity-based 
registration, tracing and customer engagement 
solutions, made good progress, increasing  
its revenues by 25% to £40.2 million (2015:  
£32.1 million) and increasing adjusted operating 
profit by 9% to £7.7 million (2015: £7.1 million).
The IDS business units performed well with  
high levels of client satisfaction, demonstrated 
not only by the growth in revenues from our 
existing client base but also by the successful 
cross-sell of additional identity data intelligence 
solutions into new areas. I am encouraged by the 
increasing number of IDS clients buying more than 
one GBG product.
New customers for IDS include British Airways 
and JP Boden.
Acquisitions 
Our track record in identifying, executing and 
successfully integrating acquisitions continued 
during the year with the addition of US-based 
Loqate in April 2015. 
Loqate further strengthened our identity 
data intelligence credentials in the US and 
has integrated and performed very well since 
acquisition, exceeding our initial expectations 
of profitability. The US team has successfully 
integrated with our existing teams and this allows 
us to apply Loqate’s technology not only into our 
existing territories but to take our other products 
into North America. Loqate’s key distribution 
partners, Oracle and IBM, are performing very 
well and we have recently launched our own  
self-serve service, Everything Location  
(www.everythinglocation.com), utilising  
Loqate’s technology.
Current Trading and Outlook 
We started our year with strong momentum and 
excellent prospects and I’m pleased to report that 
trading since the start of the year has continued in 
line with the Board’s expectations.
Given that this will be my last statement as  
CEO of GBG I wanted to extend my thanks to 
the GBG team past and present who collectively 
have grown the business into a very substantial 
company from its small beginnings. 
I am very proud of all that we have achieved  
and am very confident of further profitable  
and sustainable growth in the year ahead  
and beyond. 
R A Law
Chief Executive 18
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Global Business Case Study
Fraud: An International 
Market
Fraud is like a child’s balloon where you squeeze 
one end and all the air moves to another, simply 
changing the shape but not reducing the volume. 
Since the adoption of EMV card technology  
across Asia Pacific, there are now nearly  
2 billion ‘chip and pin’ cards in circulation in 
the region, representing over 25 per cent of 
the total. While this is still far behind UK rates 
of 83 per cent it will be a significant factor 
in driving fraudsters away from transaction 
frauds – typically using stolen or cloned cards. 
So they will simply move elsewhere to find 
where there are weaknesses in an organisation’s 
processes that they can exploit – and one of 
these is likely to be around account opening.
Whether applying for a mortgage or a credit 
card or to take out an insurance premium, an 
applicant will be sharing data that needs to be 
robustly checked and confirmed within a matter 
of seconds. But it’s not just about checking 
the identity details and credit history; has the 
person applied for a product anywhere else in 
the organisation? Are we confident that they 
are not on any anti-money laundering (‘AML’) 
sanctions lists? Have any of their attributes 
been identified as part of an incident elsewhere 
– including within partner organisations? 
Doing this quickly over the internet or via the 
mobile channel will continue to pose a major 
challenge to fraud teams under pressure from 
their commercial colleagues who need to 
on-board customers as quickly as possible.
RHB Bank in Malaysia recognised that it needed 
to speed up the time it took for its customers 
to open an account, receive their card and start 
spending. Previously a process that took several 
days, it created bottlenecks and inefficiencies in 
the workflow but, most importantly, also ran the 
risk of customers simply moving elsewhere. 
Focused in branches with the highest footfall, 
RHB automated the process to include instant 
credit checks with GBG Activate, and fraud 
and AML checks with GBG Instinct. The data 
provided by a customer goes into an automated 
workflow which checks all elements against 
known fraud data. 
The software’s decision engine either accepts, 
rejects or refers the application to a Credit 
Officer for immediate investigation. But, most 
importantly, the ultimate decision is then fed 
back into the system so that all decisions are 
available for future reference. 
The new approach to account opening has 
meant that customers can sign up in a branch, 
complete a full credit, ID and fraud check and 
walk away with their new card, ready to start 
shopping, in as little as 10 minutes. 
Client Case Study 19
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report  20
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Business Review
The performance of the Group is reported by segment, 
reflecting how we run the business and the economic 
characteristics of each division. Our divisions are led  
by our Managing Directors and have six offerings.
Nick Brown and John Lord
Managing Directors
Appointed in 2006 to head identity-based 
marketing services, Nick Brown today leads 
the Group’s expanding data quality, location 
intelligence and employee screening propositions. 
Nick previously held a senior management 
position at Sage Plc responsible for developing its 
UK channel business. This followed senior roles at 
both Microsoft and Fujitsu Services.
Appointed in 2009, John Lord leads the Group’s 
growing global capability to provide fraud, risk 
and compliance solutions to many of the world’s 
largest commercial organisations, governments, 
as well as disruptive start-ups. Prior to GBG, 
John led global sales before heading up the UK 
business for one of the world’s largest credit 
rating agencies, Dun & Bradstreet, and also led 
a major data analytics, outsourcing and contact 
centre business.
GBG ID3global can verify over 4 billion identities 
electronically, rising to over 6.5 billion when 
document image validation is included. Continued 
growth is linked to the innovation and disruption 
taking place in our global marketplace, ranging 
from financial services and payments, to the 
sharing economy and online gaming. GBG is 
perfectly placed to enable clients to take new 
business models to market when they need to 
know their customers are who they say they are, 
while meeting the stringent standards set by the 
world’s regulators.
US-based Loqate, which was acquired in April 
2015, has successfully integrated into the GBG 
family and there are excellent opportunities to 
scale further as we continue to build our location 
intelligence services. This will see the creation 
of a single business unit for the year ahead with 
three product streams: GBG Matchcode360 for 
enterprise businesses; GBG Loqate for channel 
partners; and Everything Location, GBG’s new 
self-service proposition to enable clients to 
instantly capture and verify addresses in nearly 
250 countries and territories.
ID Verification 
Remotely verify consumers’ identities
With GBG, you can verify 
the identities of over 4 billion 
people, worldwide.
ID Registration 
Quick and accurate customer registration
GBG makes the whole process 
of collecting and validating 
data shared by customers – 
anywhere in the world – 
really easy.
Nick Brown John Lord 21
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
GBG helps pull together customer insights 
from the myriad of systems and databases 
within your organisation to create an enhanced 
customer experience. We work with some of  
the largest retailers, financial services, utilities 
and travel companies in the UK. We have 
unrivalled expertise in how to create a ‘total 
customer view’ that can respond instantly to 
new customer insights – whether they come 
through a traditional channel like a store or  
call centre, or whether as a result of activity on 
your website or social media.
GBG Connexus helps you find the people you 
need to connect with faster than anyone else. 
In addition to over 1 billion data assets dating 
back 24 years linking to the UK’s 64 million 
people, this year we introduced new capability 
through social media Open-Source Intelligence 
(‘OSINT’) to instantly gain greater insight into 
people and places, globally. Our GBG Connexus 
product won three Retail Fraud Awards in 2015 
for combating fraud in retail: Best Newcomer; 
Most Innovative Online Solution; and Most 
Innovative Cross-Functional Tool.
GBG KnowYourPeople is a comprehensive 
employee identity and background checking 
solution combining the capabilities of our GBG 
OnlineDisclosures, GBG AdvancedCheck and 
GBG ID3global products. We give our clients the 
intelligence to confirm the identity, credentials 
and integrity of their employees. Currently 
available for UK employers, our expertise and 
technology is being scaled to offer similar 
solutions for international markets.
Our fraud prevention solutions not only 
check new customer details in real time as 
they register, but monitor for application and 
transaction fraud on an ongoing basis. The year 
saw strong new business and organic growth 
in international markets, including HSBC which 
went live with our fraud engine, GBG Instinct, in 
its 25th country across APAC, the Middle East, 
France, Argentina and Mexico.
ID Engage 
Database services
A total view of your customers 
across all channels.
ID Trace & Investigate 
Open up the true meaning of individual profiles 
GBG helps you to understand 
a person’s true identity when 
you need to know more.
ID Employ & Comply 
Background checks through online verification
Screen your employees to 
ensure compliance with AML 
and Right to Work regulations 
as well as verify the integrity  
of information and documents 
provided.
ID Fraud & Risk Management 
Fraud detection and risk management
GBG helps you monitor 
customer transactions to stay 
alert to behaviour consistent 
with fraud or financial crime. 22
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
GBG’s corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder 
value. In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is  
the reward for taking and accepting risk. 
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to 
achieving its corporate objectives, and has put in place an ongoing process  
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group and the effectiveness of related controls. This process is reviewed 
every six months by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to  
the Board. 
Key elements of the risk management process:
• The Group’s internal controls team meets at least once every six months 
to assess risks, review and monitor controls and identify new risks. 
• The Group’s Internal Controls Co-ordinator, whose function is to chair 
the Group’s internal control team meetings, collates and presents 
the results of the Group risk reviews to the Audit Committee. He also 
regularly monitors and assesses the Group’s risk management functions 
and reports directly to the CEO on matters of internal control and  
risk assessment. 
• The Audit Committee monitors, through the reports provided by the 
internal controls team, the controls which are in force and any perceived 
gaps in the control environment. The Audit Committee also considers 
and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by 
the Internal Controls Co-ordinator or the external auditor.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Management use a model to identify and assess the impact of risks to the 
business under four key headings – financial, strategic, operational and 
knowledge. For each risk, the likelihood and consequence are identified, 
management controls are confirmed and results reported. 
The Corporate Governance section provides further details on the Group’s 
risk management process (pages 32 to 36). 
The significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are set out  
on the following page. In each case, there is an on-going process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks of the Group. 23
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Regulatory risk
Disaster recovery, business continuity  
and cyber risk
Legislation in all the markets we serve changes on a regular basis. 
Interpretation of existing laws can also change to create ever 
tightening standards, often requiring additional human and financial 
resources and the provision of new assets and systems. Whilst the 
Group is committed to respond positively to new regulation and 
legislation, changes could affect the pricing for, or adversely affect 
the revenue from, the services the Group offers.
The Group has an understandable reliance on its place of business, 
IT systems and people. The loss of key components could affect the 
Group’s operations and result in additional expenditure, while the 
established business continuity plan is effected following an incident. 
Furthermore, the threat of unauthorised or malicious attacks on our 
IT systems is an ongoing risk for the Group, the nature of which is 
constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated.
Competitive position New product development
The Group operates in competitive markets and intensified 
competition could lead to pricing pressures, a reduction in the rate 
at which the Group adds new customers and to a decrease in the 
size of the Group’s market share if clients choose to receive services 
from other providers.
In order to maintain competitive advantage, the Group invests 
significant amounts of resources into product development.  
The development of all new technologies and products involves  
risk, including the product being more expensive, or taking longer  
to develop than originally planned; the market for the product is  
smaller than originally envisaged; or that the product fails to  
reach the production stage.
Non-supply by major supplier Intellectual property risk
The Group sources some of its data and infrastructure from third 
party suppliers and partners. The removal from the market by one 
or more of these third party suppliers or interruption in supply 
could quickly affect the Group’s operations adversely and result in 
the loss of revenue or additional expenditure for the Group.
We generally protect our proprietary application software products 
and services by licensing rights to use the applications, rather 
than selling or licensing the computer source code. We rely on 
trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws to 
establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products and 
services. However, there is a risk that our proprietary rights could 
be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented. 24
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Finance Review
Principal Activities and Business Review
GB Group plc (‘GBG’) and subsidiaries’ (together ‘the Group’) principal 
activity is the provision of identity data intelligence services. GBG helps 
organisations recognise and verify all elements of an individual’s identity at 
key interactions in their business processes. Through the application of our 
proprietary technology, our vision is to inform business decisions between 
people and organisations globally.
The performance of the Group is reported by segment, reflecting how we 
run the business and the economic characteristics of each division.  
The Group’s two operating segments are as follows:
• Identity Proofing division – which provides electronic ID Verification 
services for combating ID fraud, money laundering and under-age 
gambling, ID Employ & Comply services for employee authentication  
and screening, and ID Fraud & Risk Management services.
• Identity Solutions division – which provides ID Registration,  
ID Engage and ID Trace & Investigate software and services that provide 
accurate and up-to-date customer information and facilitate better 
understanding, targeting and retention of profitable customers.
Between them, the divisions have six complementary offerings:
• ID Verification, which provides the ability to verify consumers’ 
identities remotely, without the physical presentation of 
documentation, in order to combat ID fraud, money laundering and 
restrict access to under-age content, purchases and gambling.
• ID Employ & Comply, which provides background checks through online 
verification and authentication of individuals, enabling organisations to 
safeguard, recruit and engage with confidence.
• ID Fraud & Risk Management, which provides fraud detection, risk 
management and customer on-boarding solutions.
• ID Registration, which includes software and services for quick and 
accurate customer registration and validation of records. 
• ID Engage, which provides database services so our clients can better 
understand, target and retain their customers and offers accurate and 
up-to-date identity information for their contact strategies.
• ID Trace & Investigate, which provides the largest and most accurate 
picture of the UK’s population and properties in order to locate and 
contact the right individual, first time.
The Group results are set out in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and are explained in the Finance Review. A review of 
the Group’s business and future development is contained in the Chairman’s 
Statement, Chief Executive’s Review and the Finance Review.
Group Vision and Strategy
The Group’s vision is to be the leader in identity data intelligence, informing 
business decisions between people and organisations globally.
The Group’s strategy is to create and maintain unique online products and 
services which provide additional value for clients and are of sufficient 
strength to enable the Group to create new markets and consistently win 
new business against its competition. The Group achieves this through its 
investment in people, business and product development opportunities, and 
the application of innovation, quality and excellence in everything it does.
Review of the Business
The Group uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in 
addition to those reported under adopted IFRS as they better reflect the 
underlying performance of the business. Adjusted figures exclude certain 
non-operational or exceptional items, which is consistent with prior year 
treatments. Adjusted measures are marked as such when used.
 Our strategy is to create and 
maintain unique online products 
and services which provide 
additional value for clients  
and are of sufficient strength  
to enable the Group to create  
new markets and consistently 
win new business against  
our competition.
 Dave Wilson
 Group Finance and Operations Director  25
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
The Group’s overall profile has changed through acquisitions concluded 
during both this year and in the previous year. These businesses have 
delivered strong performances in the 12 month period ended 31 March 2016 
while being underpinned by solid organic revenue growth of 15 per cent.
Adjusted operating profit for the year increased by 24 per cent to  
£13.4 million, reflecting:
• Revenue growth of 28 per cent to £73.4 million. This increase  
included organic growth of 15 per cent.
• A slight reduction in the adjusted operating profit margin which 
decreased from 18.8 per cent to 18.3 per cent, notwithstanding 
significant continued investment for growth made over the course  
of the year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share improved by 34 per cent to 10.6 pence 
(2015: 7.9 pence). Basic earnings per share increased by 85 per cent to 
7.4 pence (2015: 4.0 pence). Group cash conversion was strong with net 
cash generated from operating activities of £13.1 million (2015: £11.3 million) 
compared to operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, share of 
associate investment result, share-based payments and exceptional items 
(Adjusted EBITDA) of £14.8 million (2015: £11.8 million).
The Group’s balance sheet and financing ability remain strong.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA was £14.8 million (2015: £11.8 million), consisting 
of adjusted operating profit of £13.4 million (2015: £10.8 million) 
and depreciation/amortisation of £1.4 million (2015: £1.0 million).
Exceptional Items
Exceptional costs of £0.1 million (2015: £1.6 million) were incurred by the 
Group in the year and have been detailed in note 7 to the accounts.
Net Finance Costs/Income
The Group has incurred net finance costs for the year of £270,000 
(2015: £266,000).
The following description of the Group’s performance is complemented by the segmental analysis in note 4 to the accounts, which shows the contributions 
from the Identity Solutions and Identity Proofing segments. The overall impact of our acquisitions in the year will not be fully evident in our segments 
until 2017.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Change
£’000
Change
%
Revenue 73,401 57,283 16,118 28
Adjusted operating profit 13,428 10,790 2,638 24
Share-based payments (1,245) (971) (274) (28)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2,501) (1,986) (515) (26)
Operating profit before exceptional items and associate result 9,682 7,833 1,849 24
Exceptional items (94) (1,629) 1,535 94
Share of associate investment result – (10) 10 100
Net finance costs (270) (266) (4) (2)
Group profit before tax 9,318 5,928 3,390 57
Total tax charge (178) (1,127) 949 84
Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders 9,140 4,801 4,339 90
Adjusted earnings
1
12,980 9,397 3,583 38
Basic weighted average number of shares (‘000) 122,744 119,144 3,600 3
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)
1
10.6 7.9 2.7 34
1 Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’) are both non-GAAP measures determined with reference to the adjusted operating profit less net finance costs and tax. 
A reconciliation of these values is reported later in this statement as well as in note 13 to the accounts.
Acquired Intangibles Amortisation
The charge for the year of £2.5 million (2015: £2.0 million) represents 
the non-cash cost of amortising separately identifiable intangible assets 
including technology-based assets and customer relationships that were 
acquired through business combinations. The increased charge in the year 
is due to the fact that 2016 has a full year charge for acquisitions which 
took place part way through the prior year along with the impact of the 
acquisition during the current year.
Taxation
The Group tax charge of £0.2 million (2015: £1.1 million) reflects permanent 
differences arising in the year, partially offset by the recognition of 
previously unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to share options. 
There was £309,000 of current tax payable on the Group’s profits in the 
year (2015: £532,000).
Dividend
The Board of Directors will propose a final ordinary dividend of 2.08 pence 
per share (2015: 1.85 pence per share), amounting to £2.6 million (2015:  
£2.2 million). The final ordinary dividend with respect to the year ended 
31 March 2016, if approved, will be paid on 26 August 2016 to ordinary 
shareholders whose names were on the register on 22 July 2016. The  
Group continues to operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, allowing  
eligible shareholders to reinvest their dividends into GBG shares.
Earnings Per Share
The earnings per share analysis in this report and in note 13 cover four 
measures: adjusted basic earnings per share (adjusted operating profit less 
net finance costs and tax); adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted 
operating profit less net finance costs and tax adjusting for the dilutive 
effect of share options); basic earnings per share (after all adjustments);  
and diluted earnings per share (adjusting for the dilutive effect of share 
options). Adjusted earnings (adjusted operating profit less net finance  
costs and tax) was £13.0 million (2015: £9.4 million) resulting in a 34 per cent 
increase in adjusted earnings per share from 7.9 pence to 10.6 pence.  
The weighted average number of shares at 31 March 2016 increased to  
122.7 million (2015: 119.1 million). 26
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Finance Review continued
Cash Flows
Group operating activities before tax payments generated £13.4 million  
of cash and cash equivalents (2015: £11.7 million) representing an increase  
of 15 per cent and an adjusted EBITDA to cash conversion ratio of 91 per cent 
(2015: 99 per cent). Operating cash flows continue to be healthy and the 
Group continually monitors its measures of cash generation and collection. 
Net cash generated by operating activities before working capital 
movements increased by 39 per cent to £14.3 million (2015: £10.3 million). 
Group investing activities resulted in net outflows of £14.0 million 
(2015: £20.7 million) including £12.3 million (2015: £18.7 million) in respect  
of acquisitions/investments, £1.1 million (2015: £2.0 million) on plant and 
equipment and software purchases and £0.6 million on product 
development (2015: £0.1 million). Financing activities used £2.5 million 
(2015: £13.4 million generated) of net cash in the year and included  
£2.3 million of dividends paid (2015: £2.0 million). The Group’s overall cash 
and cash equivalents decreased by £3.4 million (2015: £3.9 million increase) 
in the year. Further detailed analysis of this movement is included in the 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Acquisitions
During the year the Group acquired additional shares in Loqate Inc.,  
an unlisted company based in the USA taking its shareholding to  
100 per cent. The total cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired, was 
£8.0 million and all contingent consideration adjustments were settled prior 
to the end of the year. Further information on these acquisitions and the 
contingent consideration can be found in notes 31 and 32 to the accounts.
Deferred Income
Deferred income balances at the end of the year increased by 39 per cent 
to £13.8 million (2015: £9.9 million). This balance principally consists of 
contracted licence revenues and profits that are payable up front but 
recognised over time as the Group’s revenue recognition criteria are met. 
The increase has been driven by continued strong contracted sales growth 
which will deliver their revenues and profits in future years.
The deferred income balance does not represent the total contract value of 
any future unbilled annual or multi-year, non-cancellable agreements as the 
Group more typically invoices customers in annual or quarterly instalments. 
Deferred income is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the 
compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing and new 
business linearity within a reporting period.
Net Assets
Group net assets at the end of 2016 were £56.4 million, an increase of 
£10.3 million on the 2015 level of £46.1 million. This growth is driven by 
the increase in equity capital of £0.8 million combined with the total 
comprehensive income for the year of £10.2 million, less dividends paid of 
£2.3 million and after adjusting for share-based payments and deferred 
tax on share-based payments of £1.2 million and £0.3 million respectively.
Relationships
Other than our shareholders, the Group’s performance and value are 
influenced by other stakeholders, principally our clients, suppliers, 
employees and our strategic partners. Relationships are managed both on 
an individual basis and via representative groups. The Group participates in 
industry groups which give genuine access to clients, suppliers and decision 
makers in government and other regulatory bodies.
Treasury Policy and Financial Risk
The Group’s treasury operation is managed within formally defined 
policies and reviewed by the Board. The Group finances its activities 
principally with cash, short-term deposits and borrowings but has 
the ability to draw down up to £50 million of further funding from 
a revolving credit facility that is in place. Other financial assets and 
liabilities, such as trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly 
from the Group’s operating activities. Surplus funds of the Group are 
invested through the use of short-term deposits, with the objective of 
reasonable interest rate returns while still providing the flexibility to 
fund ongoing operations when required. It is not the Group’s policy to 
engage in speculative activity or to use complex financial instruments.
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks including: market risk 
(including foreign currency risk and cash flow interest rate risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk which are described in note 25 to the accounts.
Use of non-GAAP Measures in the Group Financial Statements
The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist in 
understanding the performance of the business. The measures are not 
defined under IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other 
companies’ adjusted measures. The non-GAAP measures are not intended 
to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance, 
however management considers them to be important comparatives and 
key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group and 
used in the Strategic Report and Financial Statements:
Organic Growth
Organic growth is defined by the Group as year-on-year continuing revenue 
growth, excluding acquisitions, until the date of their anniversary.
Adjusted Operating Profit
Adjusted operating profit means profits before amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, share-based payment charges, exceptional items, share of 
results from associates, net finance costs and tax.
Adjusted Earnings
Adjusted earnings represents adjusted operating profit less net finance costs 
and tax.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (‘Adjusted EPS’)
Adjusted EPS represents adjusted earnings divided by a weighted average 
number of shares in issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying 
profitability of the Group.
Approved by the Board on 8 June 2016.
D J Wilson 
Group Finance and Operations Director 27
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate social 
responsibility within the Company. Developments and initiatives 
are led by the Chief Executive with the support of senior 
management. 
Employee Engagement
It is our vision to have ‘the best and most engaged people’.
At GBG, we understand the link between high employee engagement  
and results. We aim to provide our employees with an engaging and 
stimulating environment where they are encouraged to learn and develop. 
We communicate with our employees on a regular basis, keeping them 
informed of business performance. We use multiple channels and a variety 
of media to communicate with employees across the globe; this is achieved 
through regular video updates from the CEO, biannual workshop-style 
events at all of our locations and the sharing of good news stories and 
business wins on a weekly basis. 
Every month at least one senior member of the GBG team will visit our 
international sites and some members of the Executive Team are spending 
at least one week overseas each month. 
The Group undertakes biannual engagement surveys (Q12) and takes 
account of any comments and feedback provided by employees in the 
formulation of its policies.
Commitment to corporate social responsibility 
is increasingly important to attract and retain 
employees, customers, suppliers and investors. 
It helps to strengthen relationships through 
engagement and has the ability to reflect a 
company’s character and culture in a way 
that financial results cannot. We have made 
some real progress to our corporate social 
responsibilities within the last few years and 
we continue to look for ways to put this into 
practice globally.
Our Objectives
Employee engagement score
83%
71%
83%
Other
GBG
100 80 60 0 20 40
n GBG employee
 engagement score
n Industry average:
 Tech ﬁrms
Attrition rate
14% 28
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
2015 GBG Challenge
SAYE Share Option Scheme
All employees are given the opportunity to share in the Company’s 
performance through its Save-As-You-Earn (‘SAYE’) Share Option  
Scheme. The scheme offers staff the option to apply to save up to  
£250 (or foreign currency equivalent) per month for a period of three  
or five years and to purchase shares at a discounted rate (except in  
territories where offering shares at discount is prohibited) at the  
end of the scheme. We had a fantastic response to the scheme in  
2015 with the following levels of participation achieved:
Scheme
Number of  
participants
Percentage of 
eligible staff  
who elected to 
participate Country
Number 
eligible  
for scheme
2015 UK 414 245 59%
Australia 35 24 69%
Indonesia 3 1 33%
Korea 2 2 100%
Malaysia 1 1 100%
USA 27 4 15%
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
Our vision for the GBG Challenge is to raise money for our chosen charity 
by maximising the effectiveness of our greatest asset, our people! We 
do this each year by inviting all staff to take part in an enduring physical 
challenge. The event encourages all GBG team members to work together 
as a team towards a common goal, whether it’s getting involved physically 
or through a very valuable supporting role. The GBG Challenge is a popular 
engagement event with staff as it provides a great opportunity to get 
outdoors and socialise outside of the office environment while also raising 
money for charity.
In June 2015, 80 members of the GBG team took part in the ‘GBG Tri’ 
which involved climbing Mount Snowdon, completing a kayaking challenge 
around Lake Padarn and a 30-mile cycle (off-road) that circumnavigated 
Snowdon. It was a truly fantastic effort by everyone involved and we raised 
over £32,000 for Alder Hey Children’s Charity.
As well as the big events like the GBG Challenge, staff are encouraged to 
take time to participate in smaller charity events within each office which, 
over the years, has included collecting items for local homeless shelters, 
supporting BBC Children in Need and taking part in ‘Pink Day’ for Breast 
Cancer Awareness.
Calendar year 2015 2014 2013
Number of charity events in 
the year 8 6 6
Amount raised £32,000 £14,000 £10,000
Business Ethics and Integrity
We promote a culture of honesty, integrity and respect, and our employees 
are expected to operate in an ethical manner in both their internal and 
external dealings. We do not tolerate behaviour which goes against this or 
which could result in reputational damage to the business.
Conduct
We are committed to achieving and maintaining high standards with 
regard to behaviour at work and in all our working practices. Employees are 
expected to conduct themselves with integrity, impartiality and honesty. 
We seek to develop a culture where inappropriate behaviour at all levels 
is challenged. To achieve this, the Company encourages the reporting of 
genuine concerns about malpractice, illegal acts or failures to comply with 
recognised standards of work without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Anti-bribery and corruption
It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical 
manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, 
and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in 
all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, and 
implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery.
 
Whistleblowing
We operate a policy which encourages staff to raise concerns confidentially 
and provide clear reporting lines for instances of fraud, bribery, bullying, 
unfair or unethical treatment and unsafe working practices.
Working Environment
We continue to invest in improving the working environment for our 
employees, creating innovative spaces which inspire staff to both 
collaborate with colleagues more readily and increase personal efficiency. 
We listen to our employees and the Group has a flexible working policy 
which allows staff to make requests for flexible working to accommodate 
families and other needs or commitments outside of work; we also 
encourage staff to work from home where possible.
Equal Opportunities
The employment policies and procedures of the Group for recruitment, 
training and career development promote equality of opportunity 
regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, 
race, religion or other beliefs, and ethnic or national origin. The aim is 
to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to 
develop as fully as possible in accordance with their individual abilities and 
the needs of the Group.
The Group ensures that every consideration is given to applications for 
employment from people with disabilities. Should an employee become 
disabled, every effort would be made to offer suitable alternative 
employment within the Group and assistance with retraining.
Community and Charity
We continue to support charitable and community-based causes. In 2015, 
our charity of choice was Alder Hey Children’s Charity and our biggest 
fundraising event was the GBG Challenge event that took place in June 2015. 
During the year we raised £32,000 for Alder Hey Children’s Charity.  29
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Average global take-up of 2015 SAYE Scheme
57%
We plan to continue offering SAYE to our employees in future years
Environmental
The Company has an environmental policy which states that it will 
comply with all relevant environmental legislation, establish and review 
environmental objectives (based on this policy), reduce its waste production 
wherever feasible, reduce consumption of energy within its office 
environment and minimise the use of natural resources where possible. 
In order to meet these objectives we make sure that we actively promote 
the recycling of ink cartridges, cardboard, paper and plastic by providing 
recycling points in each of our office locations. We also monitor our 
electricity, gas and water consumption.
Health and Safety
We aim to provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions 
for all our employees, and to provide such information, training 
and supervision as they need for this purpose. We also accept our 
responsibility for the health and safety of other people who may be 
affected by our activities. 
Our Health and Safety Committee meets twice a year to discuss any 
incidents of note, sharing best practice initiatives and making plans for 
improvements. All accidents and near misses, whether they result in 
absence from work or not, are reported, with remedial action identified 
and implemented to prevent reoccurrences. There have been no reportable 
accidents within the last year, only minor incidents. 
We are pleased to have recently engaged Ellis Whittam, a health and safety 
consultant, to provide annual audits at all of our UK offices and guide us on 
all health and safety matters.
2015 GBG Challenge 30
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Directors and Officers
The GBG Board comprises diverse international 
experience from across the technology, financial 
services, insurance, media, telecoms, marketing 
and legal sectors.
1
David Anthony Rasche
Chairman (Aged 66)
Appointed to the Board in September 2010. He 
was the founder of SSP Holdings Limited, one of 
the largest specialist insurance software houses 
in the world. David has over 40 years’ IT industry 
experience with over 35 years at Board level in the 
software and services sectors. David has chaired 
and advised businesses in both the public and 
private sectors.
2
Richard Anthony Law 
Chief Executive (Aged 56)
Appointed to the Board in June 1995 as Finance 
Director and was appointed as Chief Executive 
in December 2001. Before joining GBG Richard 
was a Corporate Financier with Ernst & Young. 
Richard is also a Non-Executive Director of Zuto 
Limited. In 2015, he was named the Institute of 
Directors CEO of the Year North West.
3
David John Wilson 
Group Finance & Operations Director (Aged 54)
Appointed to the Board in October 2009 having 
joined GBG as Finance Director, Dave has a strong 
background in managing business growth. He has 
worked in technology, media and telecoms for 
over 30 years, previously holding international 
and operational Board-level positions with 
companies including Eazyfone (brand Envirofone.
com), Codemasters, Fujitsu and Technology Plc. 
Dave was named Finance Director of the Year 
at the 2013 Grant Thornton Quoted Company 
Awards and Finance Director of the Year at the 
2015 FD Awards.
4
Richard Martin Linford
Non-Executive Director (Aged 64)
Appointed to the Board in November 2006. 
Previously, Richard was Chief Financial Officer 
at News International, a post which he held for 
11 years. Prior to this he was Director of Finance 
at BSkyB. Richard is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants and holds a 
Masters Degree in Business Administration from 
Boston University.
5
Charmaine Eggberry
Non-Executive Director (Aged 45)
Appointed to the Board in January 2014, Charmaine 
is also a Non-Executive Director of Avanti plc and 
software robot specialists, Blue Prism Plc as well 
as Chairperson of Buzzmove. She previously held 
international senior executive roles with Research 
in Motion (Managing Director and Chief Marketing 
Officer from 2002 to 2008) and Nokia (Global 
Senior Vice President from 2010 to 2012). She 
led Wayra UK, one of the world’s largest digital 
business accelerators, and was a Non-Executive 
Director of Wayra UnLtd, a joint venture between 
the UK Government and Telefónica. Charmaine  
is also a Board member and trustee of The 
Marketing Academy.
6
John-Henri Constantin
Company Secretary (Aged 50)
John joined GBG in 1994 as Assistant Company 
Secretary, becoming Deputy Company Secretary, 
and in 2002 was appointed Group Company 
Secretary & General Counsel. With over 20 
years’ experience of working within a listed 
company environment he leads the Group’s 
legal, administration, corporate governance and 
compliance operations. John has been a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators (FCIS) since 2007. 31
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
2 1
5
3 4
6 32
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Introduction from the Chairman
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate 
Governance Report which sets out our corporate governance 
framework, the work of the Board and its Committees. As a Board 
we believe that good corporate governance is essential for building a 
successful and sustainable business.
Governance Statement
GBG’s shares are listed on the Alternative Investment Market (‘AIM’)  
of the London Stock Exchange. GBG is subject to the AIM Admission 
Rules of the London Stock Exchange and consequently is not required  
to comply with the corporate governance provisions contained within 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). However, the Board 
does fully support the Code and its principles of good corporate 
governance and we do apply the Code as far as is practicable and 
appropriate for a public company of our size. The following pages 
outline the structures, processes and procedures by which the Board 
ensures that these standards of corporate governance are maintained 
throughout the Group. 
The role of the Board is to establish the vision and corporate strategy 
for the Group in order to promote and deliver long-term sustainable 
shareholder value. The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for its decision and meets regularly to review trading performance, 
ensure adequate funding, set and monitor strategy, examine major 
business opportunities and report to shareholders. The Board reviewed 
the list of matters reserved for its approval in February 2016. The full 
schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be viewed on GBG’s 
website www.gbgplc.com.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
Board Composition and Roles
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive 
Officer, Group Finance Director and two Non-Executive Directors and is 
responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. 
The biographies of all Directors appear on page 30; details of Committee 
memberships are provided in the table on page 33.
Appointments
Vacancies on the Board are filled following rigorous evaluation of suitable 
candidates possessing an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience. The use of recruitment consultants is considered on a case-by-
case basis. 
New Directors receive formal guidance about the workings of the Board and 
its Committees. In addition, shortly after their appointment, they meet with 
the senior management of the Group and receive detailed information and 
presentations on Group strategy, products and services. 
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three 
years as required by the Code, except those who have served for over nine 
years, who should be subject to annual re-election. This year, R M Linford 
will have served on the Board for nine years and therefore will be subject to 
annual re-election from this year’s AGM until his retirement or removal from 
the Board. 
The service agreements of all of the Directors are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office in Chester. The Board is satisfied that 
it currently has an appropriate balance of experience, skills and expertise 
appropriate to the business. 
Director Independence and Training
The Chairman and his fellow Non-Executive Directors bring a range of 
experience and judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the success of the 
Group. Under the Code’s provisions on Director independence, Non-
Executive Directors are not considered independent if they do not comply 
with certain criteria which includes if the Chairman of a company chairs 
certain committees of a company or if an incumbent Director has served for 
more than nine years. When these criteria are applied to GBG, D A Rasche, 
Chairman of the Company, may not be deemed independent, as defined by 
the Code, as he chairs the Remuneration Committee of the Board and  
R M Linford has served the Company as a Non-Executive Director for  
over nine years. 
It is, however, the consideration of the Board that D A Rasche, R M Linford 
and the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and are 
able to exercise their independent judgement free from interference by any 
business or other relationship.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information. They also have access to management 
and to the advice of the Company Secretary. Furthermore, all Directors are 
entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of 
the Group at its expense, although no such advice was sought during the 
year. The Board members have many years of relevant experience and each 
is responsible for ensuring their continuing professional development to 
maintain their effective skills and knowledge. 33
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities effectively, all Directors 
are able to allocate sufficient time to the Group. The Committees of 
the Board have Terms of Reference for the conduct of their respective 
responsibilities. A summary of the Terms of Reference is detailed further in 
this report in addition to being noted on GBG’s website. Copies of the Terms 
of Reference are also available upon request. 
The Board considers that there is a strong, independent non-executive 
element on the Board and, although not required to nominate a single senior 
independent member as stipulated in the Code, it has appointed R M Linford 
to this position.
D J Wilson R M Linford C Eggberry R A Law D A Rasche
Years’ Tenure
10
6
2
8
4
0
7
9
2
6
10+
Frequency of Meetings
The Board normally meets at least seven times a year for scheduled Board 
meetings. The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc basis to deal with 
urgent business. The Non-Executive Directors have met during the year 
without the Executive Directors and Chairman being present. In the year to 
31 March 2016, the Board met eight times, the Audit Committee met twice, 
the Remuneration Committee met twice and the Nomination Committee met 
once. The attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Number of Meetings and Percentage Attendance 
Percentage meeting attendance
Name Board Audit Nomination Remuneration
D A Rasche 100% 100% 100% 100%
R A Law* 100% – 100% –
D J Wilson* 100% – 100% –
R M Linford 100% 100% 100% 100%
C Eggberry 87.5% 100% 100% 100%
*  Being Executive Directors, R A Law and D J Wilson are not members of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Board Evaluation and Effectiveness
In recognition of the continued growth and success of the business we 
appointed Springboard Associates Limited (‘Springboard’) in November 
2015 to evaluate and assess the work of both our Board and Committees 
to ensure that the Board was fully equipped to support our growing needs. 
The evaluation was carried through detailed questionnaires, interviews 
and observing the Board in action. The areas identified for improvement 
have resulted in an action plan for the Board and the development of 
our governance framework. The Board has already made significant 
improvements to process and procedures since Springboard produced their 
report and is fully committed to having a governance framework in place 
that promotes accountability, fairness and transparency.
Identified in the Board evaluation, key topics that have helped to form the 
2016 Board objectives include: increased focus on succession planning for 
the Board and Executive team; a more formalised process for the successful 
induction of all new Board members; revised Terms of Reference for the 
Leadership Team to improve the process for operational decision-making 
and to free up the Board’s time for more high level strategy activities; and 
an update of the Terms of Reference for the Board Committees in line with 
recent changes to industry best practice. 
Performance evaluations of each of the Directors are carried out through a 
series of peer group meetings whereby performance of the Non-Executive 
Directors is monitored, evaluated and appraised by the Executive Directors 
and the performance of the Executive Directors is monitored, evaluated 
and appraised by the Non-Executive Directors. The appraisal process 
allows the Board to assess whether a Director continues to contribute 
effectively and whether they demonstrate commitment to the role. If 
issues over performance arise, these will be taken up with the individual 
Director concerned by either the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, 
at the appropriate time, and the Chairman will assess any training and 
development needs.
Committees of the Board
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Group’s affairs. 
The Group has produced written Terms of Reference for each Committee 
based on corporate governance pronouncements, details of which are 
available on the Group’s website. 
Membership of and position on Committees 
Name and position Audit Nomination Remuneration
D A Rasche (Company Chairman) Member Chairman Chairman
R A Law (CEO) – Member –
D J Wilson (GFOD) – Member –
R M Linford (NED) Chairman Member Member
C Eggberry (NED) Member Member Member
Audit Committee
Composition
The Audit Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors and is chaired  
by R M Linford and meets at least twice a year. The Committee provides 
a forum for reporting by the Group’s external auditor. Meetings are also 
attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors.
The Board is confident that there is sufficient recent and relevant financial 
experience on the Committee and that the collective experience of the Audit 
Committee members enables them to act as an effective Committee. The 
Audit Committee has access to the financial expertise of the Group and 
its auditor and can seek professional advice at the Company’s expense if 
required.
Role and Responsibilities
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to:
• maintain the integrity of the financial statements and other formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance, reviewing 
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;
• review the controls that are in force to maintain the integrity of the 
financial information reported to shareholders;
• review the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control and 
risk management systems in place including, but not limited to, the 
financial reporting process;
• develop and implement policy on the engagement of the Group’s external 
auditor to supply non-audit services;
• maintain an appropriate relationship with the Group’s external auditor; 
• review the effectiveness, scope and objectivity of the audit process; 
• report to the Board on any matters for which it considers that action or 
improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be 
taken; and
• report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities. 34
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance continued
During the year the auditor undertook certain specific pieces of non-audit 
work (including work in relation to tax matters and our banking covenants). 
Ernst & Young LLP were selected to undertake these tasks due to their 
alignment with work carried out under the audit. In order to maintain Ernst 
& Young LLP’s independence and objectivity, they undertook their standard 
independence procedures in relation to those engagements. Further details 
of the non-audit fees are included in note 6 to the accounts on page 61.
The Audit Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor. In doing so, the Audit Committee will 
consider a formal tender process when it is viewed as appropriate to do so.
Internal Controls and Risk Management
The Group’s corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder 
value. In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is the reward 
for taking and accepting risk. The Board’s policy on risk management 
encompasses all significant business risks to the Group, including financial, 
operational and compliance risks, which could undermine the achievement 
of business objectives. Regular monitoring of risk and control processes, 
across headline risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, provides 
the basis for regular and exception reporting to management and the 
Board.
The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide the Board 
with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks. The reports 
to the Board, which are submitted at least every six months, include an 
assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks materialising, as well as risk 
mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s approach to assessing 
risk and systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness. 
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of 
failure to achieve business objectives, and provides only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to 
achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk/reward profile, 
and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness 
of related controls. The process is reviewed every six months by the Audit 
Committee, which reports its findings to the Board and accords with the 
Financial Reporting Council’s Revised Guidance for Directors (‘the Revised 
Guidance’) on internal control. The key elements of this process, which have 
been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this 
report, are:
• the Group’s internal controls team which meets to assess risks, review 
and monitor controls and identify new risks;
• the Group’s Internal Controls Coordinator (the Company Secretary of 
the Group) whose function is to chair the Group’s internal control team 
meetings and to collate and present the results of the Group risk reviews 
to the Audit Committee. He also monitors and assesses the Group’s 
risk management functions on a regular basis. The Internal Controls 
Coordinator reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer on matters of 
internal control and risk assessment; and
• the Audit Committee monitors, through reports to it by the Group 
Internal Controls Coordinator, the controls which are in force and any 
perceived gaps in the control environment. The Audit Committee also 
considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues 
raised by the Group Internal Controls Coordinator or the external auditor.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Accounts
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial 
reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the accounting 
principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public 
financial information and examines documentation relating to the Annual 
Report, Interim Report, preliminary announcements and other related 
reports. The Audit Committee has given due consideration to whether 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy and can confirm that this is the case.
External Audit
The Audit Committee approves the external auditor’s terms of 
engagement, scope of work, the process for the interim review and 
the annual audit. The Audit Committee then meets with the auditor to 
review the written reports submitted and the findings of their work. 
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
external auditor.
Internal Audit
The Audit Committee annually reviews the requirement to have an internal 
audit function and makes a recommendation to the Board. Following a 
review by the Audit Committee it is considered that due to the size of the 
business together with the robust controls in place GBG does not require 
an internal audit function. The Audit Committee biannually reviews this 
requirement.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Group 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters 
of financial reporting or other matters. The Committee’s objectives are 
to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and 
independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up 
action. 
Report on the Work of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of 
the external auditor prior to proposal of a resolution to shareholders at 
the AGM concerning the appointment and remuneration of the auditor. 
This process includes the review of audit fee proposals, investigation 
and approval for non-audit services fees and audit partner rotation 
(based on best practice and professional standards within the UK). The 
Group’s auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, similarly consider whether there are 
any relationships between themselves and the Group that could have a 
bearing upon their independence and have confirmed their independence 
to the Audit Committee of GB Group plc. The Audit Committee reached its 
recommendation to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor following an 
assessment of the quality of service provided, the expertise and resources 
made available to the Group and the effectiveness of the audit process. 
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes an assessment  
of the auditor’s independence each year, which includes: a review of  
non-audit related services provided by Ernst & Young LLP and related fees;  
a discussion with the auditor of all relationships with the Group and 
any other parties which could affect independence or the perception of 
independence; and a discussion with the auditor of their own procedures  
for ensuring independence of the audit firm, and Partners and staff involved 
in the audit, including the periodic rotation of the Audit Partner. Each year 
the Audit Committee obtains written confirmation from the auditor that  
they are independent. 35
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been 
operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull guidelines, Revised Guidance 
and any subsequent updates issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by D A Rasche and comprises Non-
Executive Directors and meets at least twice a year. 
Role and Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee’s role is to recommend to the Board the 
remuneration strategy and framework for the Executive Directors and 
senior managers, including the performance-related bonus scheme. 
The Report on Directors’ Remuneration, which includes details of 
the Group’s remuneration policies, Directors’ remuneration, pension 
entitlements and benefits together with information on service contracts, is 
set out on pages 39 to 43.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by D A Rasche and comprises the 
whole Board and meets as and when it is necessary to do so. 
Role and Responsibilities
The Committee’s role is to:
• ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination and 
selection of candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to 
the balance and structure of the Board; and
• make recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election of 
Directors, succession planning and Board composition, having due 
regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
When required, the Nomination Committee is able to make use of third-
party advisors to assist in identifying a range of suitable candidates for 
review by the Nomination Committee. 
Diversity
Diversity is an important consideration whenever a new appointment is 
undertaken to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with a broad 
range of skills, backgrounds and experience reflecting both the type of 
industry and the geographical location in which we operate.
The Board believes in the importance of diversity and the benefits that it 
can bring to the operation of an effective business and is committed to 
increasing the participation of women across all levels of the organisation 
and particularly within senior management. We are committed to equal 
opportunities in all areas of our business, with people gaining promotion on 
merit. We recruit, train, promote and retain skilled and motivated people 
irrespective of gender, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, 
race, religion, ethnic or national origin. In line with this commitment we also 
promote a culture of openness and responsibility within our business.
Key Elements of the Control Framework
Financial reporting process – management and specialists within 
the finance department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate 
maintenance of financial records and processes to ensure that all 
information is relevant, reliable and in accordance with the applicable  
laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in 
a timely manner. A review of the financial statements is completed by 
management to ensure that the financial position and results of the  
Group are appropriately reflected. All financial information published by  
the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
Strategic and financial planning – an annual budgeting and strategic 
planning process has been established whereby the Group assesses its 
competitive position and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced. 
This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear milestones and 
performance indicators.
Performance management – the performance of the Group against the 
plan is closely monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the 
attendance of the relevant Executive Directors at monthly Executive Team 
meetings and at bimonthly Board meetings, when required.
Capital investment – a clear process is in place for the approval of 
capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of 
the proposed investment and any associated key risks. Material capital 
expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and safety – health and safety standards and benchmarks have  
been established and the Group’s performance in meeting such standards  
is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process – the Group evaluates its internal 
control environment and key risks, and the results are reviewed at 
management level and passed to the Audit Committee before being 
presented to the Board. This process is reviewed on a quarterly basis  
to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks included in biannual 
reports. The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk 
management controls. These procedures are mandated and designed  
to manage the risk in order to ensure that the Group achieves its  
business objectives.
Internal audit – the Board has considered whether the Group’s internal 
controls processes would be significantly enhanced by an internal audit 
function and has taken the view that given the small size of the Group, 
the internal controls in place and significant executive involvement in 
the Group’s day-to-day business that this is not required. The Board will 
continue to review this matter on an annual basis. 
Board-level reporting on internal control – during the year the Audit 
Committee reviews regular reports from the external auditor and executive 
management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting 
and risk management. The Audit Committee provides the Board with an 
independent assessment of the Group’s financial position, accounting  
affairs and control systems. 36
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance continued
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority and the 
Board aims to have a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual 
understanding of objectives. It is the Chairman who takes ultimate 
responsibility for communications with shareholders and ensures that the 
Board as a whole are made aware of shareholder concerns. 
The primary means of shareholder communication is through the Annual 
Report and Accounts and Half Yearly Report, specifically the Chairman’s 
Statement, Chief Executive’s Review, and the Finance Review, which seek to 
give investors a detailed review of the business. 
The Board values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests 
in the Group’s strategy and performance. Regular meetings are held 
with institutional investors and analysts including presentations after 
the Company’s annual results announcement and the interim results 
announcement at the half-year to ensure that the investing community 
receives a balanced and consistent view of the Group’s performance and to 
discuss governance and strategy with large investors. Shareholder views 
are communicated to the Board in advance of their release and feedback 
and views from the Group’s major shareholders are formally communicated 
to the Non-Executive Directors. The Group also communicates with private 
investors through the AGM and investorrelations@gbgplc.com; the Board 
considers its means of communication to be the most practical and efficient.
The Board takes steps to ensure that the members of the Board, and in 
particular the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the 
views of major shareholders about the Group. The Group has an active 
investor relations programme, regularly meeting with shareholders at our 
investor roadshows to discuss market opportunity, growth strategy and 
potential risks the Group may face in the future. Non-Executive Directors 
are offered the opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with major 
shareholders and should expect to attend meetings if requested by major 
shareholders.
D A Rasche, as Chairman of the Group’s Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and R M Linford as Chairman of the Audit Committee will 
attend the AGM to answer shareholder questions regarding the work of 
the Committees. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming 
AGM can be found in the Notice of the Meeting. The Board would like to 
encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM. The Board typically 
make themselves available before and after the AGM for discussion with 
shareholders which is followed by a presentation regarding the Group’s 
products and services. 
D A Rasche
Chairman
8 June 2016 37
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report and accounts for the year ended  
31 March 2016.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.08 pence per share 
(2015: 1.85 pence per share) amounting to £2.6 million (2015: £2.2 million). 
This final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 26 August 2016 to ordinary 
shareholders whose names were on the Register of Members on 22 July 
2016. In respect of this year’s dividend, the Group will once again offer 
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’) allowing eligible shareholders to 
reinvest their dividends into GBG shares. 
Research and Development
The Group has continued to attach a high priority to research and 
development throughout the year aimed at the development of new products 
and maintaining the technological excellence of existing products. During the 
year ended 31 March 2016, approximately 30 per cent (2015: 23 per cent) of 
the Group’s staff were employed in research and development activities. 
Substantial Shareholders
As at 31 March 2016, the Company was notified, in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the Ordinary 
Share capital of the Company, which represented 3 per cent or more of the 
Company’s issued share capital.
Number Percentage
Octopus Investments 11,312,053 9.13%
Standard Life Investments 10,685,216 8.63%
BlackRock Investment Mgt (UK) 10,639,593 8.59%
Hargreave Hale 8,286,189 6.69%
Herald Investment Management 6,905,528 5.57%
Kestrel Partners LLP 5,467,198 4.41%
River & Mercantile Asset Management 4,148,806 3.35%
Charles Stanley & Co. Limited 4,140,483 3.34%
As at 1 June 2016, the Company has not received any notification, in 
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of any changes to 
interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company, representing 3 per cent 
or more of the Company’s issued share capital since 31 March 2016.
Directors and their Interests
The names and brief biographical details of Directors at the date of this 
report are set out on page 30. 
The Directors who served during the year ended 31 March 2016, and details 
of their interests in the share capital of the Company and share options, are 
set out in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 39 to 43.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a General Meeting of the 
shareholders. The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so appointed 
must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next General Meeting. 
Directors who have held office for more than three years since their last 
appointment are eligible for re-election by rotation at the next AGM.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, D J Wilson and 
R M Linford will both retire by rotation and, being eligible, have 
indicated their willingness to be re-elected at the forthcoming AGM. 
The Directors have confirmed that having conducted the Board 
performance evaluation process, D J Wilson and R M Linford continue 
to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
Details of the notice period contained in the service agreements for 
D J Wilson and R M Linford are detailed in the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration on pages 39 to 43.
Directors’ Liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability in 
respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions 
set out in the Companies Act 2006. Such qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions remain in force at the date of approving the Directors’ Report.
Change of Control
Within the Group’s revolving credit facility, the lender has the right to 
demand immediate payment of any outstanding balances upon a change of 
control of the Group following a takeover bid.
The Group does have an agreement with a data supplier which, if the Group 
were acquired by a competitor of that data supplier, would allow it to 
terminate its agreement with the Group. The data supplier would, however, 
continue to be bound to service arrangements with the Group’s clients 
existing on the date of termination. 
Upon a change of control, share options may be exercised within six months 
of the time when the change of control takes effect and any subsequent 
conditions at the offer process have been satisfied.
There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment (whether 
through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.
Additional Information for Shareholders
The following provides the additional information required for shareholders 
as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
Share Capital Structure
At 31 March 2016, the Group’s issued share capital comprised:
Number £’000
% of  
Total Share 
Capital
Ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each 123,886,390 3,097 100%
Restrictions on Transfers
The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights. 38
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Report continued
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief 
Executive’s Review on pages 16 to 17. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review on 
pages 24 to 26. In addition, note 25 to the accounts includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial 
risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
After review of the budget, financial forecasts and other relevant 
information, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
J H Constantin FCIS
Company Secretary
8 June 2016
Ordinary Shares
On a show of hands at a General Meeting of the Group, every holder of 
ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote 
and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The notice of the 
General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by 
proxy notice or present in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be 
passed at the General Meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the 
AGM and the results are released as an announcement after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than:
• certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider trading laws and market requirements 
relating to close periods); and
• pursuant to the internal policies of the Company whereby certain 
employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal 
in the Company’s securities. 
Articles of Association
The Group’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
AGM 2016
Details of business to be conducted at this year’s AGM to be held on  
26 July 2016, are contained in the Notice of the AGM which will be 
communicated to shareholders separately.
Financial Instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed 
on pages 24 to 26 and within note 25 to the accounts.
Auditor
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor 
to the Company will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
Directors’ Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ Report are listed on page 30. Having made enquiries of 
fellow Directors and of the Company’s auditor, each of these Directors 
confirms that:
• to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be 
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 39
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration
 
 
 
Information not subject to audit
Introduction
The members of the Company’s Remuneration Committee are D A Rasche 
(Chairman), C Eggberry and R M Linford. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for considering and making 
recommendations to the Board on:
• the Company’s general policy on executive and senior management 
remuneration;
• the specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors of the 
Company, including basic salary, performance-based incentives, 
pensions and other benefits; and
• the design and operation of the Company’s share schemes.
The remuneration of each Director is determined on behalf of the Board by 
the Remuneration Committee using the principles of the relevant provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 26 July 2016 asking 
them to consider and approve this Report.
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s remuneration policy is formulated to attract and retain 
high-calibre executives and motivate them to develop and implement the 
Company’s business strategy in order to optimise long-term shareholder 
value. It is the intention that this policy should conform to best practice 
standards and that it will continue to apply for 2016 and subsequent years, 
subject to ongoing review as appropriate. The policy is framed around the 
following key principles:
• total rewards will be set at levels that are sufficiently competitive to 
enable the recruitment and retention of high-calibre executives;
• total incentive-based rewards will be earned through the achievement 
of demanding performance conditions consistent with shareholder 
interests;
• incentive plans, performance measures and targets will be structured to 
operate soundly throughout the business cycle;
• the design of long-term incentives will be prudent and will not expose 
shareholders to unreasonable financial risk;
• in considering the market positioning of reward elements, account 
will be taken of the performance of the Group and of each individual 
Executive Director; and
• reward practice will conform to best practice standards as far as 
reasonably practicable.
When formulating the scale and structure of remuneration levels, the 
Remuneration Committee considers market rates drawn from external 
market data of the level of remuneration offered to Directors of similar 
type and seniority in other companies whose activities are similar to those 
of GB Group plc. The Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and 
employment conditions of employees of the Company when determining 
Directors’ remuneration. It may also seek advice from external consultants 
where appropriate and the services of h2glenfern Limited were retained 
during the year. No Director was involved in deciding the level and 
composition of their own remuneration.
Each Executive Director’s remuneration package consists of a basic salary, 
bonus, share options, health and car benefits, prolonged disability insurance 
and pension contributions. An appropriate balance is maintained between 
the fixed and performance-related remuneration elements. The details of 
individual components of the remuneration packages and service contracts 
are outlined below.
Basic Salary and Benefits
In accordance with the remuneration policy outlined above, the salaries of 
the Executive Directors are reviewed annually. Consideration is also taken 
of an Executive Director’s experience, responsibilities and performance. 
Performance is assessed both from an individual and business perspective.
Benefits in kind comprise private fuel benefit and private medical insurance 
for both R A Law and D J Wilson. Cash in lieu of a benefit in kind is in respect 
of a car allowance for D J Wilson and for R A Law is in respect of a car 
allowance plus payment in lieu of pension. 
Pensions
The Company does not have a contributory pension scheme. For D J Wilson 
pension payments are paid directly into his personal pension plan. R A Law 
has reached the maximum level permitted for a personal pension plan and 
now receives a direct payment in lieu of his pension entitlement.
Fees
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Executive 
Directors within the limits stipulated in the Articles of Association.
Performance-Related Bonus
This is calculated based on a fixed formula which is determined at the 
beginning of each financial year by the Remuneration Committee. The 
formula measures the Group’s performance to specified targets, principally 
relating to Adjusted Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’). Although the amount of 
bonus is dependent on the level of performance achieved, payments under 
the bonus scheme are capped to 125 per cent of salary. During the year  
R A Law was awarded £346,000 and D J Wilson was awarded £214,000.
Share Option Schemes
GBG has operated Executive Share Option Schemes since May 1993 under 
which Executive Directors, managers and staff of the Company are granted 
options over shares in the Company at prevailing market prices at the date 
of grant.
Under the Executive Share Option Schemes, options are granted to 
Executive Directors and employees at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee and on the basis of their performance. Options are granted at 
the full market value of the Company’s shares at the time of grant and are 
exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. The options 
vest when the Company’s earnings per share growth is greater than the 
growth of the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) over a three-year period prior to the 
date of exercise. Options may be awarded under Section A and Section B of 
the Scheme with Section A options being approved under Schedule 4 of the 
Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (‘ITEPA’) and Section B options 
being unapproved under Schedule 4 of the ITEPA.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 November 
2003, shareholder approval was given to create a new Executive Share 
Option Scheme (called ‘Section C Scheme’) under which senior executives of 
the Company could be granted options over shares in GBG at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee and on the basis of their performance. 
Options are granted at the full market value of the Company’s shares at the 
time of grant and are exercisable between three and ten years from the date 
of grant.  40
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
 
 
 
Upon a change of control, options may be exercised within six months of the 
time when the change of control takes effect and any subsequent conditions 
at the offer process have been satisfied. 
On 2 November 2011, the Board approved the implementation of a new 
option scheme under which executives of the Company could be awarded 
matching shares under a share matching plan. Under the Share Matching 
Plan, participants may purchase shares (‘Investment Shares’) from the 
market up to a maximum aggregate value of: 80 per cent of the gross 
amount of their bonus, net of the employee’s National Insurance and 
income tax paid; and/or 20 per cent of their gross annual salary, net of the 
employee’s National Insurance and income tax paid. 
In consideration of acquiring such Investment Shares, the Company 
undertakes to grant an option to allot a number of matching shares in 
proportion to the Investment Shares acquired. Such matching shares are 
capped at three times the number of Investment Shares purchased by the 
participant. 
The vesting conditions for the issue of matching shares will occur when 
Adjusted EPS growth is greater than a target set by the Remuneration 
Committee at the time of making an option award. Between the lower and 
upper Adjusted EPS growth target levels the amount of shares that will vest 
will increase on a straight-line basis from nil to 100 per cent. Adjusted EPS 
growth in excess of the upper target level will mean that the vesting criterion 
has been fully achieved and 100 per cent of the matching shares will vest.  
The range of lower level growth targets for options currently in issue is 
between 10 per cent and 15 per cent and the range of upper level growth 
targets for options in issue is between 22.5 per cent and 25 per cent. The 
performance period over which Adjusted EPS growth is measured is over 
three financial years.
Options awarded under the Share Matching Scheme are treated as 
unapproved under section 4 of the ITEPA.
In addition, the Company also operates a savings-related share option 
scheme, which is open to all employees.
Further information of the options issued to the Executive Directors 
is detailed on page 41.
These Section C options, however, only become exercisable to the extent 
that they have vested at the date of exercise. The percentage of an option 
that will vest and be capable of exercise will depend on the performance of 
the Company. A minimum of 50 per cent of the options will vest when the 
Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance of the Company, as compared 
to the TSR of the FTSE Computer Services Sub-Sector over a three-year 
period, matches or exceeds the median company. The percentage of shares 
subject to an option in respect of which that option becomes capable of 
exercise will then increase on a sliding scale so that the option will become 
exercisable in full if top quartile performance is achieved.
At a General Meeting of the Company held on 29 July 2010, shareholder 
approval was given:
(i) to increase the overall limit on the number of shares that can be awarded 
as options to an aggregate dilution limit of 15 per cent in the issued 
share capital of the Company over a rolling ten-year period. Excluded 
from the computation of this limit will be options granted within the past 
ten years but which were exercised before September 2006 and any 
option granted but that cannot vest (i.e. because a performance target 
applicable to it has not been satisfied or fully satisfied); and
(ii) to create a new Executive Share Option Scheme (called ‘Section D 
Scheme’) under which senior executives of the Company could be 
granted options over shares in GBG at the discretion of the Board. 
Options are granted at the full market value of the Company’s shares at 
the time of grant and are exercisable between three and ten years from 
the date of grant.
These Section D options, however, only become exercisable to the extent 
that they have vested at the date of exercise. The options will vest subject 
to the achievement of normalised EPS growth of the Company at an 
annual compound rate of 20 per cent over the performance period. The 
performance period is the three financial years following the financial year 
of the Company ended immediately prior to the date of grant of the award 
of options.
Service Contracts
The service contracts and letters of appointment of the Directors include the following terms:
Date of contract
Unexpired term
(months) or  
rolling contract
Notice period  
(months)
Executive Directors
R A Law 6 June 1995 Rolling contract 12
D J Wilson 1 October 2010 Rolling contract 6
Non-Executive Directors
D A Rasche 1 September 2015 3 1
R M Linford 24 May 2015 11 1
C Eggberry 8 January 2016 9 1
There are no special provisions for compensation in the event of loss of office. The Remuneration Committee considers the circumstances of individual cases 
of early termination and determines compensation payments accordingly. 41
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Shareholder Return Graph
The graph below shows the percentage change in Total Shareholder Return 
for each of the last five financial years compared to the FTSE Techmark  
(All-Share) index.
The FTSE Techmark (All-Share) was selected as it represents a broad equity 
index in which the Company can be compared against.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2016
800
400 %
0
600
200
-100
n GBG n FTSE Techmark (All-Share)
Year ends 31 March
Directors’ Interests
Set out below are the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families 
in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year.
Ordinary Shares of 2.5 pence
31 March 
2016
1 April 
2015
D A Rasche 746,095 746,095
R A Law 2,316,045 1,939,730
R M Linford 286,364 286,364
D J Wilson 455,096 365,035
C Eggberry 18,182 18,182
Directors’ Interests in the Group’s Share Option Schemes
Executive Share Options
At 
31 March 
2015 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 
Granted 
during 
financial 
year
Exercised 
during 
financial 
year
Lapsed 
during 
financial 
year
At 
31 March 
2016 
Option 
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Date  
exercisable
R A Law 36,000 C – – (36,000) – 35.75 2008–15
400,000 D – (400,000) – – 25.75 2013–20
350,000 B – (350,000) – – 42.00 2014–21
469,825 SM – (469,825) – – 2.50 2015–22
243,458 SM – – – 243,458 2.50 2016–23
356,774 SM – – – 356,774 2.50 2017–24
– SM 296,562 – – 296,562 2.50 2018–25
1,856,057 296,562 (1,219,825) (36,000) 896,794
D J Wilson 100,434 A – – – 100,434 23.00 2012–19
50,000 C – – – 50,000 19.75 2012–19
311,164 D – – – 311,164 25.75 2013–20
251,064 SM – (251,064) – – 2.50 2015–22
135,867 SM – – – 135,867 2.50 2016–23
159,177 SM – – – 159,177 2.50 2017–24
– SM 156,683 – – 156,683 2.50 2018–25
1,007,706 156,683 (251,064) – 913,325
Share Option Scheme details are provided in relation to the Directors’ interests in each of the Group’s Share Option Schemes:
A Section A D Section D
B Section B SM Share Matching
C Section C
Further information about the general terms of the Group’s Share Option Schemes can be found on page 39 of this Report. 42
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
 
 
 
Savings-Related Share Scheme
At 
31 March 
2015
Granted 
during 
financial 
year
Exercised 
during 
financial 
year
Lapsed 
during 
financial 
year
At 
31 March 
2016
Option 
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Date 
exercisable
R A Law 3,984 – – – 3,984 76.80 2018
3,984 – – – 3,984
D J Wilson 6,640 – – – 6,640 76.80 2018
6,640 – – – 6,640
The aggregate gains made on the exercise of options during the year was £2,772,000 (2015: £1,304,000).
At 31 March 2016, the price of the Company’s shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange was 268.25 pence and the lowest and highest prices during the 
year ended 31 March 2016 were 169.0 pence and 283.75 pence respectively.
There have been no other changes to Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company from the end of the year to 1 June 2016. Full details of the Directors’ 
interests in the shares and options of the Company are contained in the Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection. 43
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
 
 
 
Information subject to audit
Directors’ Remuneration
 Salaries/  
fees  
£’000
 Cash in 
 lieu of  
benefits 
 in kind 
 £’000
 Benefits in 
kind  
£’000
 Bonuses 
£’000
2016
Total  
£’000
2015
Total  
£’000
D A Rasche 95 – – – 95 55
R A Law
1
305 80 5 346 736 678
D J Wilson
1
193 14 5 214 426 390
R M Linford 40 – – – 40 40
C Eggberry 45 – – – 45 35
678 94 10 560 1,342 1,198
1 Denotes Executive Director.
Details of cash in lieu of benefits in kind and benefits in kind are disclosed on page 39.
In addition to his fees as a Director of the Company, D A Rasche is reimbursed for all additional expenses and charges he incurs. These costs of £1,000 have 
been disclosed in note 30 to the accounts.
Directors’ Pension Arrangements (Defined Contribution)
The Company paid contributions to defined contribution schemes in respect of the following Directors:
2016 
Total
£’000
2015 
Total 
£’000
R A Law – –
D J Wilson 24 22
24 22
Note: R A Law has reached the maximum level permitted for a personal pension plan. He now receives a direct payment in lieu of his pension entitlement, which was £62,000 (2015: £58,000) 
and is included in the column entitled ‘Cash in lieu of benefits in kind’ in the Directors’ Remuneration table above.
On behalf of the Board
D A Rasche
Remuneration Committee Chairman
8 June 2016 44
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance
Statement of Responsibilities
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and 
those International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the 
Company and Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and Group for that period. In preparing the financial statements the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them 
consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s and the Company’s financial position and financial performance; and
• state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in 
the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement by Management
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
b) the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development, performance and position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
R A Law  D J Wilson
Director  Director 45
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of GB Group Plc
We have audited the financial statements of GB Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 32. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’s) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on Which We are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Victoria Venning 
(Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Manchester
8 June 2016
Auditor’s Report 46
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Revenue 3 73,401 57,283
Cost of sales (17,606) (16,448)
Gross profit 55,795 40,835
Operating expenses before amortisation of acquired intangibles, share-based payments and exceptional items (42,481) (30,079)
Other operating income 114 34
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles, share-based payments, exceptional items and share of 
associate investment result (adjusted operating profit) 13,428 10,790
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 15 (2,501) (1,986)
Share-based payments charge 27 (1,245) (971)
Exceptional items 7 (94) (1,629)
Share of associate investment result 18 – (10)
Group operating profit 9,588 6,194
Finance revenue 9 12 25
Finance costs 10 (282) (291)
Profit before tax 9,318 5,928
Income tax expense 11 (178) (1,127)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 9,140 4,801
Other comprehensive income:
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (net of tax)* 1,096 (684)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 10,236 4,117
Earnings per share 13
– adjusted basic earnings per share for the year 10.6p 7.9p
– adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year 10.3p 7.5p
– basic earnings per share for the year 7.4p 4.0p
– diluted earnings per share for the year 7.2p 3.9p
* Upon a disposal of a foreign operation, this would be recycled to the Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended 31 March 2016 47
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Note
Equity 
share 
capital 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 1 April 2014 14,964 6,575 3 – 9,291 30,833
Profit for the period – – – – 4,801 4,801
Other comprehensive income – – – (684) – (684)
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – (684) 4,801 4,117
Issue of share capital 21 11,784 – – – – 11,784
Share issue costs 21 (330) – – – – (330)
Share-based payments charge 27 – – – – 971 971
Deferred tax on share options – – – – 714 714
Equity dividend 12 – – – – (1,955) (1,955)
Balance at 31 March 2015 26,418 6,575 3 (684) 13,822 46,134
Profit for the period – – – – 9,140 9,140
Other comprehensive income – – – 1,096 – 1,096
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – 1,096 9,140 10,236
Issue of share capital 21 790 – – – – 790
Share-based payments charge 27 – – – – 1,245 1,245
Deferred tax on share options – – – – 273 273
Equity dividend 12 – – – – (2,277) (2,277)
Balance at 31 March 2016 27,208 6,575 3 412 22,203 56,401
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 31 March 2016 48
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Note
Equity 
share 
capital 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 1 April 2014 14,964 6,575 3 12,925 34,467
Profit for the period – – – 5,676 5,676
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – 5,676 5,676
Issue of share capital 21 11,784 – – – 11,784
Share issue costs 21 (330) – – – (330)
Share-based payments charge 27 – – – 971 971
Deferred tax on share options – – – 714 714
Equity dividend 12 – – – (1,955) (1,955)
Balance at 31 March 2015 26,418 6,575 3 18,331 51,327
Profit for the period – – – 8,317 8,317
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – 8,317 8,317
Issue of share capital 21 790 – – – 790
Share-based payments charge 27 – – – 1,245 1,245
Deferred tax on share options – – – 273 273
Equity dividend 12 – – – (2,277) (2,277)
Balance at 31 March 2016 27,208 6,575 3 25,889 59,675
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 31 March 2016 49
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Plant and equipment 14 2,234 2,829
Intangible assets 15 54,113 45,296
Deferred tax asset 11 3,017 3,113
59,364 51,238
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 19 23,774 17,408
Cash and short-term deposits 20 12,415 15,778
36,189 33,186
Total assets 95,553 84,424
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves 
Equity share capital 21 27,208 26,418
Merger reserve 6,575 6,575
Capital redemption reserve 3 3
Foreign currency translation reserve 412 (684)
Retained earnings 22,203 13,822
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 56,401 46,134
Non-current liabilities
Loans 22 3,160 3,643
Contingent consideration 32 – 895
Deferred tax liability 11 3,433 2,968
6,593 7,506
Current liabilities
Loans 22 582 746
Trade and other payables 23 30,543 23,984
Contingent consideration 32 1,050 5,733
Provisions 24 31 48
Current tax 353 273
32,559 30,784
Total liabilities 39,152 38,290
Total equity and liabilities 95,553 84,424
Approved by the Board on 8 June 2016
R A Law   D J Wilson
Director  Director
Registered in England number 2415211
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2016 50
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Plant and equipment 14 2,012 2,588
Intangible assets 15 1,595 478
Investments 17 60,428 48,321
Deferred tax asset 11 2,588 1,585
66,623 52,972
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 19 18,836 13,577
Current tax 87 –
Cash and short-term deposits 20 9,663 13,845
28,586 27,422
Total assets 95,209 80,394
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves 
Equity share capital 21 27,208 26,418
Merger reserve 6,575 6,575
Capital redemption reserve 3 3
Retained earnings 25,889 18,331
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 59,675 51,327
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 35,503 28,075
Contingent consideration 32 – 934
Provisions 24 31 48
Current tax – 10
35,534 29,067
Total liabilities 35,534 29,067
Total equity and liabilities 95,209 80,394
Approved by the Board on 8 June 2016
R A Law   D J Wilson
Director  Director
Registered in England number 2415211
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2016 51
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Group profit before tax 9,318 5,928
Adjustments to reconcile Group profit before tax to net cash flows
Share of associate investment result 18 – 10
Finance revenue 9 (12) (25)
Finance costs 10 282 291
Depreciation of plant and equipment 14 1,071 873
Amortisation of intangible assets 15 2,778 2,167
Loss on disposal of plant and equipment – 55
Fair value adjustment on contingent consideration 32 78 403
Fair value gain on revaluation of associate investment 31 (247) –
Share-based payments 27 1,245 971
Decrease in provisions 24 (17) (267)
Increase in trade and other receivables (981) (2,852)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (118) 4,130
Cash generated from operations 13,397 11,684
Income tax paid (248) (337)
Net cash generated from operating activities 13,149 11,347
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 31 (12,263) (18,672)
Purchase of plant and equipment 14 (712) (1,961)
Purchase of software 15 (426) –
Proceeds from disposal of plant and equipment 14 – 13
Expenditure on product development 15 (624) (63)
Interest received 9 12 25
Net cash flows used in investing activities (14,013) (20,658)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Finance costs paid 10 (282) (291)
Proceeds from issue of shares 21 790 11,284
Share issue costs 21 – (330)
Proceeds from new borrowings 22 – 5,487
Repayment of borrowings 22 (752) (781)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 12 (2,277) (1,955)
Net cash flows from financing activities (2,521) 13,414
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3,385) 4,103
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 22 (171)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 15,778 11,846
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 20 12,415 15,778
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 March 2016 52
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Company profit before tax 8,825 6,924
Adjustments to reconcile Company profit before tax to net cash flows
Finance revenue (7) (16)
Finance costs 118 75
Depreciation of plant and equipment 14 1,020 771
Amortisation of intangible assets 15 273 175
Loss on disposal of plant and equipment – 55
Fair value adjustment on contingent consideration 32 (111) (206)
Share-based payments 27 1,245 971
Decrease in provisions 24 (17) (267)
Increase in trade and other receivables (5,259) (1,249)
Increase in trade and other payables 7,428 3,247
Cash generated from operations 13,515 10,480
Income tax paid (242) (60)
Net cash generated from operating activities 13,273 10,420
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 31 (14,183) (5,857)
Investment in subsidiary undertakings – (9,122)
Purchase of plant and equipment 14 (624) (1,909)
Purchase of software 15 (426) –
Proceeds from disposal of plant and equipment 14 – 13
Expenditure on product development 15 (624) (63)
Interest received 7 16
Net cash flows used in investing activities (15,850) (16,922)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Finance costs paid (118) (75)
Proceeds from issue of shares 21 790 11,284
Share issue costs 21 – (330)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 12 (2,277) (1,955)
Net cash flows from financing activities (1,605) 8,924
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (4,182) 2,422
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 13,845 11,423
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 20 9,663 13,845
Company Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 March 2016 53
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Notes to the Accounts
1. Corporate Information
GB Group plc (‘the Company’), its subsidiaries and associates (together ‘the Group’) provide identity data intelligence products and services helping 
organisations recognise and verify all elements of an individual’s identity at key interactions in their business processes. The nature of the Group’s operations 
and its principal activities are set out in the Finance Review on page 24.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and is listed on the London Stock Exchange with its ordinary shares traded on 
the Alternative Investment Market. The address of its registered office is The Foundation, Herons Way, Chester Business Park, Chester, CH4 9GB. A list of the 
significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 17.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 June 2016.
The Company’s financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of GB Group plc. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 
2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
2. Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’s) as adopted by the European Union 
and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have 
been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified in respect of the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value. A summary of the 
significant accounting policies is set out below.
The accounting policies that follow set out those policies that apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 and the Group and 
Company have applied the same policies throughout the year.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has:
• power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee);
• exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
• the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority 
of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, 
including:
• the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee;
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements 
of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. 
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the 
date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the  
non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, 
expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components 
of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
  54
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
Business Combinations
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations of entities not under common control. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. 
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs 
are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at 
their fair values at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration classified as 
an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair 
value with the changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured 
until it is finally settled within equity.
The Group applies IFRS 3: Business Combinations and as a consequence of the acquisition of the remaining 73.3% of shares in Loqate, the area of the standard 
applicable to business combinations achieved in stages became relevant to the Group. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date fair value of the Group’s previously held investment in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date with any resultant gain or loss 
recognised through profit or loss.
Foreign Currencies
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. For each entity the 
Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. The 
Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign operation, the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount 
that arises from using this method.
Transactions and Balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the 
transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. 
Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss with the exception of monetary items that are designated 
as part of the hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. These are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’) until the net 
investment is disposed of, at which time, the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences 
on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial 
transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on 
the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or profit or loss are also recognised 
in OCI or profit or loss, respectively).
Group Companies
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting 
date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates for the period. The exchange differences arising on translation for 
consolidation are recognised in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in 
profit or loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the 
acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Plant and Equipment
Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Depreciation is calculated to write off cost less estimated 
residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each asset as follows:
Plant and equipment – over 3 to 10 years
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their 
recoverable amount.
An item of plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the 
asset. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
item) is included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year the item is derecognised.
Residual values and estimated remaining lives are reviewed annually.
2. Accounting Policies continued 55
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Impairment of Assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of 
an asset’s or cash generating unit’s (‘CGU’s) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in those expense categories 
consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may 
have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only on assets other than 
goodwill if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is 
the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. After 
such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic 
basis over its remaining useful life.
Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill already carried in the balance sheet at 1 April 2004 or relating to acquisitions after that date is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the CGU expected to benefit from the synergies. Impairment is determined by assessing 
the recoverable amount of the CGU, including the related goodwill. Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount, including 
goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a CGU is taken into 
account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or an operation within it. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the 
basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
Research and Development Costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising from development expenditure on an individual project is recognised only when the 
Group can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete 
and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete and the availability 
to measure reliably the expenditure during the development. Following the initial recognition of the development expenditure, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Any expenditure capitalised is amortised 
on a straight line basis over 2 to 4 years.
Acquired Intangibles
Separately identifiable intangible assets such as patent fees, licence fees, trademarks and customer lists and relationships are capitalised on the balance 
sheet only when the value can be measured reliably, or the intangible asset is purchased as part of the acquisition of a business. Such intangible assets 
are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight-line basis. 
Separately identified intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value. Intangible assets are subsequently stated 
at fair value or cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Estimated useful lives typically applied are as follows:
Technology based assets  – over 2 to 3 years
Brands and trademarks  – over 2 to 3 years
Customer relationships  – over 10 years
Acquired Computer Software Licences
Acquired computer software licences comprise of computer software licences purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed 
software. Acquired computer software licences are initially capitalised at cost, which includes the purchase price (net of any discounts and rebates) and 
other directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for its intended use. Direct expenditure including employee costs, which enhances or extends the 
performance of computer software beyond its specifications and which can be reliably measured, is added to the original cost of the software. 
2. Accounting Policies continued 56
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
2. Accounting Policies continued
Costs associated with maintaining the computer software are recognised as an expense when incurred. Computer software licences are subsequently carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to profit or loss using the straight-line method over 
their estimated useful lives of 3 to 5 years.
The amortisation period and amortisation method of intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed at least at each balance sheet date. The effects of 
any revision are recognised in profit or loss when the changes arise.
The Company’s Investments in Subsidiaries
In its separate financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provision for impairment.
Interests in Associates
Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in financial 
and operating policy decisions. Investments in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. The Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income includes the Group’s share of the profit or loss after tax of the associated undertakings. Investments in associates include goodwill 
identified on acquisition and are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the 
associate, less any impairment in value.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 14 to 60 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable 
amounts. A provision is made against a trade receivable only when there is objective evidence that the Group may not be able to recover the entire amount 
due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision for doubtful debts account. 
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
Cash and Short-Term Deposits
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months 
or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of any outstanding bank overdrafts.
Borrowings
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method. 
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded using the effective interest method.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where 
the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset 
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income net of any 
reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the 
increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Pensions
The Group does not have a contributory pension scheme. Payments are made to individual private defined contribution pension arrangements. Contributions 
are charged in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as they become payable.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received from the sale of software and rendering of services, net of value-added tax, rebates and 
discounts and after the elimination of inter-company transactions within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows:
(a) Sale of software licences
Revenue in respect of software licences where the Group has no further obligations and the contract is non-cancellable is recognised at the time of sale. 
Revenue in respect of software licences where there are further contractual obligations, in the form of additional services provided by the Group, such as 
software delivered online, is recognised over the duration of the licence in line with when the costs are incurred and delivery obligations fulfilled.  57
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
(b) Rendering of services
Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. Stage of completion of the specific transaction is assessed 
on the basis of the actual services provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided. Where the Group is acting as an agent in a transaction 
and is not the primary obligor then revenue is reported net of amounts payable to the supplier.
(c) Interest income
Revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
(d) Rental income
Net rental income arising from the sub-let of properties under operating leases is reported as other operating income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Exceptional Items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Statement of Comprehensive Income those material items of income and expense which, because 
of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the 
elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are 
approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
Employees (including Directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in 
exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
Equity-Settled Transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. The fair value 
is determined by an external valuation specialist using a binomial model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance 
conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of GB Group plc (‘market conditions’) and non-vesting conditions, if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (‘the vesting date’). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Statement of Comprehensive Income charge or credit for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting conditions were satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are 
satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, an 
expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment 
arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award 
is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it was 
granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected in the computation of earnings per share (note 13).
Leases
Assets funded through finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts are capitalised as property, plant and equipment, where the Group assumes 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at the lower of its fair value and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. Future instalments under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings. Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is included in finance costs, and the capital element which reduces the 
outstanding obligation for future instalments so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental charges are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a 
straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Lease incentives are primarily rent-free periods. Lease incentives are amortised over the lease term against the relevant rental expense.
2. Accounting Policies continued 58
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
Taxes
Current Tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, by the reporting date, in the 
countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Deferred Income Tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities included in the financial statements 
and the amounts used for tax purposes that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions:
• No provision is made where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
• No provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in 
joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
• Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which 
the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences and unused tax losses and credits can be deducted.
• Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability 
settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Finance Costs
Finance costs consist of interest and other costs that are incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds. Finance costs are expensed in the period in 
which they are incurred.
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations Applied
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2015, except for the adoption of relevant new Standards and Interpretations noted below. Adoption of these 
Standards and Interpretations did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group and the Company.
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Adoption date
IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions — Amendments to IAS 19 1 February 2015
Various Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2010–2012 Cycle 1 February 2015
Various Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2011–2013 Cycle 1 January 2015
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture — Amendments to IFRS 
10 and IAS 28
1 January 2016
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations – Amendments to IFRS 11 1 January 2016
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 1 January 2016
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 1 January 2016
IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – Amendments to IAS 27 1 January 2016
Various Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2012–2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations not Applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following Standards and Interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (effective for the year ending 31 March 2019) replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and 
related interpretations. The standard introduces a single, five-step revenue recognition model that is based upon the principle that revenue is recognised at 
the point that control of goods or services is transferred to the customer. The standard also updates revenue disclosure requirements. Whilst an assessment 
of this new standard is ongoing, the Group does not currently expect its adoption to have a material impact on the Group’s financial performance or position.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ replaces IAS 39. The standard is effective for the year ending 31 March 2019 and will impact the classification and measurement 
of financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures. Whilst an assessment of the new standard is ongoing, the changes to recognition and 
measurement of financial instruments and changes to hedge accounting rules are not currently considered likely to have any major impact on the Group’s 
current accounting treatment or hedging activities. 
2. Accounting Policies continued 59
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
2. Accounting Policies continued
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective for the year ending 31 March 2020) will require all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet. The new standard brings most 
leases on-balance sheet for lessees under a single model, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases. IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 ‘Leases’ 
and related interpretations. The Group has a number of operating lease arrangements and will consider the financial impact of IFRS 16 in due course but in 
broad terms the impact will be to recognise a lease liability and corresponding asset for the operating lease commitments set out in note 26.
Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets 
and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. However, the nature of estimation means 
that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements and estimates, which have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Impairment of goodwill
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy on page 55. Determining whether goodwill 
is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use and/or the estimated recoverable amount of the asset derived from the business, or part of the business, 
CGU, to which the goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the present value of future cash flows expected to arise 
from the CGU, by applying an appropriate discount rate to the timing and amount of future cash flows.
Management are required to make judgements regarding the timing and amount of future cash flows applicable to the CGU, based on current budgets and 
forecasts, and extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates and expected changes to sales and operating costs. Management 
estimate the appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
business or the individual CGU.
An analysis of the Group’s goodwill and the assumptions used to test for impairment are set out in note 16.
Deferred tax assets
The amount of the deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet of the Group is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable  
profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. In estimating the amount of the deferred tax asset that may be recognised, management  
make judgements, based on current budgets and forecasts, about the amount of future taxable profits and the timing of when these will be realised.  
The carrying value of the recognised deferred tax asset at 31 March 2016 was £3,017,000 (2015: £3,113,000) and the unrecognised deferred tax asset at  
31 March 2016 was £5,152,000 (2015: £5,351,000). Further details are contained in note 11.
Share-based payments
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which 
they are granted. Judgement is required in determining the most appropriate valuation model for a grant of equity instruments, depending on the terms 
and conditions of the grant. Management are also required to use judgement in determining the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including 
expected life of the option, volatility and dividend yield. The assumptions and models used are disclosed in note 27.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets 
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition, management are required to make judgements regarding the timing and amount 
of future cash flows applicable to the businesses being acquired, discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
Such judgements are based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates and expected 
changes to selling prices and operating costs. Management estimate the appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses being acquired.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome (note 32). Those judgements 
include the forecasting of a number of different outcomes against the performance targets and estimating a probability and risk of each outcome before 
arriving at a risk weighted value of contingent consideration.
Development costs and internally generated software
The Group capitalises development costs for a project in accordance with its policy. Careful judgement by management is applied when deciding whether 
the recognition requirements for development costs have been met and once management have satisfied themselves that policy criteria are met the 
development costs are carried as assets and amortised over the estimated revenue generating life of each asset. At 31 March 2016 the carrying value of 
the internally generated software assets was £908,000 (2015: £478,000) and the amount of research and development costs expensed were £5,719,000 
(2015: £3,298,000). 60
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
3. Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is analysed as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Sale of goods 31,661 24,721
Rendering of services 41,740 32,562
Revenue 73,401 57,283
Finance revenue 12 25
Total revenue 73,413 57,308
4. Segmental Information
The Group’s operating segments are internally reported to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer as two operating segments: Identity Proofing Division – which 
provides ID Verification, ID Employ & Comply and ID Fraud and Risk Management services and Identity Solutions Division – which provides ID Registration,  
ID Engage and ID Trace & Investigate services. The measure of performance of those segments that is reported to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer is 
adjusted operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles as shown below.
Segment results include items directly attributable to either Identity Proofing or Identity Solutions. Unallocated items for 2016 represent Group head office 
costs £886,000, exceptional costs £94,000, Group finance income £12,000, Group finance costs £282,000, Group income tax charge £178,000 and share-
based payments charge £1,245,000. Unallocated items for 2015 represent Group head office costs £591,000, share of associate investment result £10,000, 
exceptional costs £1,629,000, Group finance income £25,000, Group finance costs £291,000, Group income tax charge £1,127,000 and share-based payments 
charge £971,000.
Information on segment assets and liabilities is not regularly provided to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and is therefore not disclosed below.
Year ended 31 March 2016
Identity 
Proofing 
£’000
Identity 
Solutions 
£’000
Unallocated 
£’000
2016 
£’000
Total revenue 33,213 40,188 – 73,401
Adjusted operating profit 6,629 7,685 (886) 13,428
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,042) (1,459) – (2,501)
Share-based payments charge – – (1,245) (1,245)
Exceptional items – – (94) (94)
Operating profit 5,587 6,226 (2,225) 9,588
Finance revenue 12 12
Finance costs (282) (282)
Income tax charge (178) (178)
Profit for the year 9,140
Loqate, which was acquired during the period, is reported within the Identity Solutions operating segment.
Year ended 31 March 2015
Identity 
Proofing 
£’000
Identity 
Solutions 
£’000
Unallocated 
£’000
2015
£’000
Total revenue 25,167 32,116 – 57,283
Adjusted operating profit 4,304 7,077 (591) 10,790
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,097) (889) – (1,986)
Share-based payments charge – – (971) (971)
Exceptional items – – (1,629) (1,629)
Share of associate investment result – – (10) (10)
Operating profit 3,207 6,188 (3,201) 6,194
Finance revenue 25 25
Finance costs (291) (291)
Income tax charge (1,127) (1,127)
Profit for the year 4,801
      
DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd and CDMS Limited, which were acquired during the year, were absorbed and are managed in the Group’s Identity Proofing and 
Identity Solutions operating segments, respectively. 61
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Geographical Information
Revenues from external 
customers
Non-current 
assets
2016 
£’000
2015
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
United Kingdom 54,045 46,210 36,461 28,370
United States of America 4,940 – 90 –
Australia 1,192 859 19,796 19,755
Others 13,224 10,214 – –
Total 73,401 57,283 56,347 48,125
The geographical revenue information above is based on the location of the customer.
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of plant and equipment and intangible assets.
5. Operating Profit
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Research and development expense written off 5,719 3,298
Depreciation of plant and equipment 1,071 873
Amortisation/impairment of intangible assets (operating expense) 2,778 2,167
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (29) 10
Operating lease payments – land and buildings 889 673
– other 16 17
6. Auditor’s Remuneration
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Audit of the financial statements
1
102 107
Other fees to auditors – other assurance services 21 20
– taxation compliance services 24 25
– tax advisory services 4 –
151 152
1 £77,000 (2015: £87,000) of this relates to the Company. 
7. Exceptional Items
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration (note 32) 78 403
Fair value gain on revaluation of investment in associate (note 18) (247) –
Acquisition related costs (note 31) 119 452
Costs associated with staff reorganisations 178 331
Provision for dilapidation obligations on the relocation of the Group head office (note 24) – 138
Costs associated with the relocation of the Group head office (34) 305
94 1,629
Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration in the year to 31 March 2016 include a £177,000 adjustment relating to a contingent purchase price 
adjustment relating to Loqate (note 32) along with a £255,000 charge relating to the partial unwinding of the discounting relating to the contingent 
consideration of the acquisition of DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd and CDMS Limited (note 32). This charge arises because contingent consideration due to be paid 
at a future date is discounted for the time value of money at the point of initial recognition and over the passage of time, this discount unwinds within the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. These are non-cash items. 
An exceptional fair value gain of £247,000 has been recognised as a consequence of the Group revaluing its previously held equity stake in Loqate at the date 
of its acquisition of the remaining 73.3% of shares in accordance with IFRS 3. This is a non-cash item.
4. Segmental Information continued 62
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
8. Staff Costs and Directors’ Emoluments
a) Staff Costs
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Wages and salaries 26,435 20,111
Social security costs 3,125 2,350
Other pension costs 1,172 856
30,732 23,317
Included in wages and salaries is a total charge of share-based payments of £1,245,000 (2015: £971,000) which arises from transactions accounted for as 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The average monthly number of employees during the year within each category was as follows:
2016 
No.
2015 
No.
Research and development 165 91
Production 67 44
Selling and administration 310 254
542 389
b) Directors’ emoluments 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Wages and salaries 782 699
Pension 24 22
Bonuses 560 499
1,366 1,220
Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of options 2,772 1,304
The remuneration for the highest paid Director was as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Wages and salaries 390 370
Bonus 346 308
736 678
The highest paid Director has reached the maximum level permitted for a personal pension plan and receives a direct payment in lieu of his pension 
entitlement, which was £62,000 (2015: £58,000). 
The number of share options granted during the year for the highest paid Director was 296,562 (2015: 356,774) and the number of share options exercised 
during the year was 1,219,825 (2015: 546,875).
Details of the remuneration, pension entitlements and share options of each Director are included in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 39  
to 43.
9. Finance Revenue
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Bank interest receivable 12 25
12 25
10. Finance Costs
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Bank loan fees and interest 282 291
282 291 63
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
11. Taxation
a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
The tax charge in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year is as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Current income tax
UK corporation tax on profit for the year 145 10
Amounts overprovided in previous years (404) –
Foreign tax 568 522
309 532
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (220) 612
Prior year items – (102)
Impact of change in tax rates 89 85
(131) 595
Tax charge in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 178 1,127
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK would result in a tax charge (2015: charge) as explained below:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Consolidated profit before tax 9,318 5,928
Consolidated profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% (2015: 21%) 1,864 1,245
Effect of:
Permanent differences (924) 307
Rate changes 89 85
Utilisation of unrecognised losses – (110)
Prior year items (357) (102)
Research and development tax relief (329) –
Recognition of unrecognised deferred tax assets (197) (366)
Effect of higher taxes on overseas earnings 32 68
Total tax charge reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 178 1,127
The Group is entitled to current year tax relief of £1,212,000 (2015: £647,000), calculated at a tax rate of 20% (2015: 21%), in relation to the statutory 
deduction available on share options exercised in the year.
c) Tax losses
The Group has carried forward trading losses at 31 March 2016 of £18,259,000 (2015: £18,418,000). To the extent that these losses are available for offset 
against future trading profits of the Group, it is expected that the future effective tax rate would be below the standard rate. There were also capital losses 
carried forward at 31 March 2016 of £2,257,000 (2015: £2,257,000), which should be available for offset against future capital gains of the Group to the 
extent that they arise.
 
d) Deferred tax – Group
Deferred tax asset
The recognised and unrecognised potential deferred tax asset of the Group is as follows:
Recognised Unrecognised
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Decelerated capital allowances 1,200 1,565 1,032 1,333
Share options 1,460 991 – –
Other temporary differences 357 336 33 36
Capital losses – – 406 451
Trading losses – 221 3,681 3,531
3,017 3,113 5,152 5,351 64
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
11. Taxation continued
The movement on the deferred tax asset of the Group is as follows:
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Opening balance 3,113 2,127
Acquired on acquisition – 1,274
Foreign currency adjustments 17 (20)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 (155)
Impact of change in tax rates (117) (113)
3,017 3,113
The deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent it is anticipated to be recoverable out of future taxable profits based on profit forecasts for the 
foreseeable future. The utilisation of the unrecognised deferred tax asset in future periods will reduce the future tax rate below the standard rate.
The Group has unrecognised deductible temporary differences of £24,107,000 (2015: £24,500,000) and unrecognised capital losses of £2,257,000  
(2015: £2,257,000).
Deferred tax liability
The deferred tax liability of the Group is as follows:
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Intangible assets 3,433 2,968
3,433 2,968
The movement on the deferred tax liability of the Group is as follows:
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Opening balance 2,968 1,251
Acquisition of intangibles in subsidiaries 929 2,183
Foreign currency adjustments 63 (79)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (527) (387)
3,433 2,968
e) Deferred tax – Company
Deferred tax asset
The recognised and unrecognised potential deferred tax asset of the Company is as follows:
Recognised Unrecognised
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Decelerated capital allowances 1,128 373 1,032 –
Share options 1,460 991 – –
Other temporary differences – – 33 36
Capital losses – – 406 451
Trading losses – 221 2,946 –
2,588 1,585 4,417 487
The movement on the deferred tax asset of the Company is as follows:
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Opening balance 1,585 2,127
Acquired on acquisition 1,093 –
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 27 (429)
Impact of change in tax rates (117) (113)
2,588 1,585
The deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent it is anticipated to be recoverable out of future taxable profits based on profit forecasts for the 
foreseeable future. The utilisation of the unrecognised deferred tax asset in future periods will reduce the future tax rate below the standard rate.
The Company has unrecognised deductible temporary differences of £22,216,000 (2015: £180,000) and unrecognised capital losses of £2,257,000  
(2015: £2,257,000). 65
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
f) Change in corporation tax rate
UK legislation was substantively enacted in July 2013 to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015, resulting in an effective 
rate for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 20%. As legislated in Finance (No 2) Act 2015, which was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015, the UK 
corporation tax rate will reduce further to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. The reductions in rate from 20% to 19% and then to 18% have 
been used in the calculation of the UK’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2016.
12. Dividends Paid and Proposed 
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Declared and paid during the year
Final dividend for 2015: 1.85p (2014: 1.65p) 2,277 1,955
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)
Final dividend for 2016: 2.08p (2015: 1.85p) 2,577 2,234
13. Earnings Per Ordinary Share
Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the basic weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
2016 2015
Pence 
per share
 
£’000
 Pence 
per share
 
£’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 7.4 9,140 4.0 4,801
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the 
dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
2016 
No.
2015  
No.
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 122,744,412 119,144,442
Dilutive effect of share options 3,770,597 5,395,880
Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 126,515,009 124,540,322
2016 2015
 Pence 
per share
 
£’000
 Pence 
per share
 
£’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 7.2 9,140 3.9 4,801
Adjusted
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as adjusted operating profit less net finance costs and tax divided by the basic weighted average number of ordinary 
shares of the Company. In prior periods the Group reported adjusted earnings per share on a pre-tax basis and the comparative numbers below have been 
restated to take into account the change to a post-tax basis.
2016 2015
Basic
pence  
per share
Diluted
pence 
per share
 
£’000
Basic
pence  
per share
Diluted
 pence
 per share
 
£’000
Adjusted operating profit 10.9 10.6 13,428 9.1 8.6 10,790
Less net finance costs (0.2) (0.2) (270) (0.3) (0.2) (266)
Less tax (0.1) (0.1) (178) (0.9) (0.9) (1,127)
Adjusted earnings 10.6 10.3 12,980 7.9 7.5 9,397
11. Taxation continued 66
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
14. Plant and Equipment
Group
Plant and 
equipment 
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2014 5,270
Acquired on acquisition 295
Additions 1,961
Disposals (577)
Foreign currency adjustment (18)
At 31 March 2015 6,931
Acquired on acquisition 72
Additions 712
Reclassification (1,953)
Foreign currency adjustment 23
At 31 March 2016 5,785
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2014 3,751
Disposals (509)
Provided during the year 873
Foreign currency adjustment (13)
At 31 March 2015 4,102
Provided during the year 1,071
Reclassification (1,636)
Foreign currency adjustment 14
At 31 March 2016 3,551
Net book value
At 31 March 2016 2,234
At 31 March 2015 2,829
At 1 April 2014 1,519
The net book value in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements is £nil (2015: £114,000). 67
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Company
Plant and 
equipment 
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2014 5,113
Acquired on acquisition* 1
Additions 1,909
Disposals (577)
At 31 March 2015 6,446
Acquired on acquisition** 137
Additions 624
Reclassification (1,953)
At 31 March 2016 5,254
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2014 3,596
Disposals (509)
Provided during the year 771
At 31 March 2015 3,858
Provided during the year 1,020
Reclassification (1,636)
At 31 March 2016 3,242
Net book value
At 31 March 2016 2,012
At 31 March 2015 2,588
At 1 April 2014 1,517
During the period £317,000 of purchased software assets (at net book value) were reclassified as intangible assets.
The net book value in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements is £nil (2015: £nil).
* On 1 October 2014, the trade, assets and liabilities of Advanced Checking Services Limited were transferred to the Company.
** On 1 April 2015, the trade, assets and liabilities of CDMS Limited were transferred to the Company. 
14. Plant and Equipment continued 68
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
15. Intangible Assets
Group
Customer 
relationships 
£’000
Other 
acquisition 
intangibles 
£’000
Total 
acquisition 
intangibles 
£’000
Goodwill 
£’000
Purchased 
software 
£’000
Internally 
developed 
software 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2014 7,237 1,311 8,548 16,542 – 1,041 26,131
Foreign currency adjustment (273) (107) (380) (921) – – (1,301)
Additions – business combinations 7,875 2,582 10,457 14,884 – – 25,341
Additions – product development – – – – – 63 63
At 31 March 2015 14,839 3,786 18,625 30,505 – 1,104 50,234
Foreign currency adjustment 230 93 323 758 – 1 1,082
Additions – business combinations 1,912 819 2,731 6,502 – 18 9,251
Additions – product development – – – – – 624 624
Additions – purchased software – – – – 426 – 426
Reclassification – – – – 1,953 – 1,953
At 31 March 2016 16,981 4,698 21,679 37,765 2,379 1,747 63,570
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2014 1,514 843 2,357 – – 445 2,802
Foreign currency adjustment (17) (14) (31) – – – (31)
Amortisation during the year 1,257 729 1,986 – – 181 2,167
At 31 March 2015 2,754 1,558 4,312 – – 626 4,938
Foreign currency adjustment 56 49 105 – – – 105
Amortisation during the year 1,639 862 2,501 – 64 213 2,778
Reclassification – – – – 1,636 – 1,636
At 31 March 2016 4,449 2,469 6,918 – 1,700 839 9,457
Net book value
At 31 March 2016 12,532 2,229 14,761 37,765 679 908 54,113
At 31 March 2015 12,085 2,228 14,313 30,505 – 478 45,296
At 1 April 2014 5,723 468 6,191 16,542 – 596 23,329
The customer relationships intangible asset acquired through the acquisition of Capscan Parent Limited has a carrying value of £2,632,000 and a remaining 
amortisation period of 5.6 years. The customer relationships intangible asset acquired through the acquisition of TMG.tv Limited has a carrying value of 
£703,000 and a remaining amortisation period of 6.6 years. The customer relationships intangible asset acquired through the acquisition of CRD (UK) 
Limited has a carrying value of £637,000 and a remaining amortisation period of 7.25 years. The customer relationships intangible asset acquired through 
the acquisition of DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd has a carrying value of £3,352,000 and a remaining amortisation period of 8.1 years. The customer relationships 
intangible asset acquired through the acquisition of CDMS Limited has a carrying value of £3,101,000 and a remaining amortisation period of 8.6 years. The 
customer relationships intangible asset acquired through the acquisition of Loqate Inc. has a carrying value of £1,802,000 and a remaining amortisation 
period of 9.1 years. Intangible assets categorised as ‘other acquisition intangibles’ include assets such as non-compete clauses and software technology.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of GB Mailing Systems Limited, e-Ware Interactive Limited, Data Discoveries Holdings Limited, Advanced Checking Services 
Limited (ACS), Capscan Parent Limited, TMG.tv Limited, CRD (UK) Limited, DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd, CDMS Limited and Loqate Inc.. Under IFRS, goodwill is 
not amortised and is annually tested for impairment (note 16).
During the period £317,000 of purchased software assets (at net book value) were reclassified as intangible assets (previously classified as tangible assets). 69
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Company
Purchased 
software 
£’000 
Development 
costs  
£’000
Total  
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2014 – 997 997
Acquired on acquisition* – 32 32
Additions – product development – 63 63
At 31 March 2015 – 1,092 1,092
Acquired on acquisition** 23 – 23
Additions – product development – 624 624
Additions – purchased software 426 – 426
Reclassification 1,953 – 1,953
At 31 March 2016 2,402 1,716 4,118
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2014 – 439 439
Amortisation during the year – 175 175
At 31 March 2015 – 614 614
Reclassification 1,636 – 1,636
Amortisation during the year 64 209 273
At 31 March 2016 1,700 823 2,523
Net book value
At 31 March 2016 702 893 1,595
At 31 March 2015 – 478 478
At 1 April 2014 – 558 558
* On 1 October 2014, the trade, assets and liabilities of Advanced Checking Services Limited were transferred to the Company.
** On 1 April 2015, the trade, assets and liabilities of CDMS Limited were transferred to the Company.
During the period £317,000 of purchased software assets (at net book value) were reclassified as intangible assets (previously classified as tangible assets).
 
16. Impairment Testing of Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to five CGUs as follows:
• Identity Solutions Unit (represented by the Identity Solutions operating segment excluding e-Ware)
• Identity Proofing Unit (represented by the Identity Proofing operating segment excluding DecTech)
• e-Ware Interactive Unit (part of the Identity Solutions operating segment)
• DecTech Unit (part of the Identity Proofing operating segment)
• Loqate Unit (part of the Identity Solutions operating segment)
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. In previous years Data Discoveries, 
CDMS and Capscan were identified as separate CGUs but following the transfer of the trade, assets and liabilities to the Company, these are now included 
within the Identity Solutions Unit. TMG, CRD and ACS were identified as separate CGUs but following the transfer of the trade, assets and liabilities to the 
Company, these are now included within the Identity Proofing Unit. 
Where there are no indicators of impairment on the goodwill arising through business combinations made during the year they are tested for impairment no 
later than at the end of the year.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to CGUs
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Identity Solutions Unit 11,672 11,170
Identity Proofing Unit 5,293 5,293
e-Ware Interactive Unit 79 79
DecTech Unit 13,993 13,461
Loqate Unit 6,728 –
CDMS Unit – 502
37,765 30,505
15. Intangible Assets continued 70
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
16. Impairment Testing of Goodwill continued
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts using budgets and forecasts approved by the Directors which cover a three year period and an appropriate 
extrapolation of cash flows beyond this using a long-term average growth rate not greater than the average long-term retail growth rate in the territory 
where the CGU is based.
The key assumptions for value in use calculations are those regarding the forecast cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The Directors estimate 
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU. Growth 
rates reflect long-term growth rate prospects for the economy in which the CGU operates.
2016 2015
Pre-tax 
WACC
%
Growth rate 
(in perpetuity)
%
Pre-tax 
WACC
%
Growth rate 
(in perpetuity) 
%
Identity Solutions Unit 8.2% 2.3% 6.8% 2.3%
Identity Proofing Unit 8.2% 2.3% 6.8% 2.3%
e-Ware Interactive Unit 8.2% – 6.8% –
DecTech Unit 15.6% 2.7% 12.3% 2.9%
Loqate Unit 12.7% 2.3% – –
CDMS Unit – – 6.8% 2.3%
In the case of the e-Ware Interactive CGU, the annual impairment review as at 31 March 2016 indicated that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying 
value by £50,000 (2015: £66,000) after assuming an annual cash flow attrition of 20%. In assessing the future recoverable amounts, cash flow attrition 
is assumed on the basis that the recoverable amount is associated with only a small number of customers. Any decline in estimated value-in-use in excess 
of that amount would be liable to result in an impairment. The sensitivity, which would result in the recoverable amount equalling the carrying value, is an 
absolute increase of 22.5% to the attrition assumption from 20% to 42.5%. The decrease in both the discount rate and profit margin that would be required to 
result in an impairment are not considered to be reasonably possible.
In the case of the DecTech CGU, the annual impairment review as at 31 March 2016 indicated that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value 
of goodwill by £14,900,000 (2015: £14,200,000) and that any decline in estimated value-in-use in excess of that amount would be liable to result in an 
impairment. The sensitivities, which result in the recoverable amount equalling the carrying value, can be summarised as follows:
• an absolute increase of 12.9% in the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital from 12.6% to 28.5%; or
• a reduction of 52% in the forecast profit margins.
In the case of the Loqate CGU, the annual impairment review as at 31 March 2016 indicated that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value of 
goodwill by £7,400,000 and that any decline in estimated value-in-use in excess of that amount would be liable to result in an impairment. The sensitivities, 
which result in the recoverable amount equalling the carrying value, can be summarised as follows:
• an absolute increase of 9.7% in the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital from 12.7% to 22.4%; or
• a reduction of 52.4% in the forecast profit margins.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs exceed their carrying value on the basis of the respective assumptions shown above and any reasonably 
possible changes thereof.
17. Investments
Company £’000
Cost 
At 1 April 2015 48,321
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 12,107
At 31 March 2016 60,428
Amounts written off
At 1 April 2015 and 31 March 2016 –
Net book value
At 31 March 2016 60,428
At 31 March 2015 48,321 71
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
Details of the investments in which the Company holds greater than 20% of the nominal value of any class of share capital are as follows: 
Name of company Description of holding
Proportion of voting rights 
and shares held Nature of business
Capscan Parent Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Capscan Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Advanced Checking Services Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Data Discoveries Holdings Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Data Discoveries Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Managed Analytics Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Fastrac Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
e-Ware Interactive Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
GB Information Management Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
GB Datacare Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
GB Mailing Systems Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Citizensafe Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
TelMe Global Traveller Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
TelMe.com Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Ebetsafe Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Farebase Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
TMG.tv Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
CRD (UK) Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
DecTech Solutions Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary Shares 100% ID Risk Management 
DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd* Ordinary Shares 100% ID Risk Management
DecTech Solutions Sdn Bhd Ordinary Shares 100% ID Risk Management
Loqate Inc. Ordinary Shares 100% ID Registration
CDMS Limited Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Transactis Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
Inkfish Limited* Ordinary Shares 100% Dormant company
* Held indirectly.
DecTech Solutions Holdings Pty Ltd and DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd are incorporated in Australia. DecTech Solutions Sdn Bhd is incorporated in Malaysia. 
Loqate Inc. is incorporated in the United States of America. All other subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom. The Company accounts for its 
investments in subsidiaries using the cost model.
18. Investments in Associates
The Group had a 26.7% interest in Loqate Inc., a private company based in the USA which develops international addressing solutions, geocoding solutions 
and location based services which are used in the Group’s portfolio of products and services. The associated undertaking was accounted for using the equity 
method. On 27 April 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 73.3% of the shares in Loqate Inc. and its performance is included in the consolidated financial 
statements since that date.
The following table illustrates summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in Loqate Inc.:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At 1 April – 10
Share of loss for the period – (10)
At 31 March – –
The Group’s share of the results of its associate, which is unlisted, and its aggregate assets and liabilities, are as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Share of balance sheet:
Total assets – 531
Total liabilities – (669)
– (138)
Share of results:
Revenue – 985
Loss after tax – (31)
Share of associate investment result – (10)
At the acquisition date of the remaining 73.3% of shares in Loqate, the Group revalued its previously held equity stake in Loqate at its acquisition-date fair 
value in accordance with IFRS 3. The resulting gain of £247,000 has been recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
17. Investments continued 72
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
19. Trade and Other Receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 14 to 60 day terms. At 31 March 2016 the value of trade receivables outstanding in excess of 
the standard expected credit term but not impaired was £6,661,000 (2015: £6,308,000).
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed using a combination of historical information relating to 
counterparty default rates and external credit ratings where available.
Group Company
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Trade receivables 19,768 15,592 15,519 12,429
Prepayments and accrued income 4,006 1,816 3,317 1,148
23,774 17,408 18,836 13,577
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for unrecoverable amounts, movements on which are as follows:
Group Company
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Balance at 1 April 659 239 561 233
Acquired on acquisition 67 72 70 6
Additional provisions 226 441 139 410
Write-offs (97) (93) (97) (88)
Balance at 31 March 855 659 673 561
As at 31 March, the analysis of Group trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total 
£’000
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired
 £’000
Past due but not impaired
< 30 days 
£’000
30 – 60 days 
£’000
> 60 days 
£’000
2016 19,768 13,107 2,720 504 3,437
2015 15,592 9,284 2,754 773 2,781
20. Cash
Group Company
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 12,415 15,778 9,663 13,845
12,415 15,778 9,663 13,845
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
21. Equity Share Capital
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Authorised
147,663,704 (2015: 147,663,704) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 3,692 3,692
Issued
Allotted, called up and fully paid 3,097 3,018
Share premium 24,111 23,400
27,208 26,418
2016 
No.
2015 
No.
Number of shares in issue at 1 April 120,735,364 110,149,466
Issued on placing – 8,343,284
Issued on exercise of share options 3,151,026 2,242,614
Number of shares in issue at 31 March 123,886,390 120,735,364
During the year 3,151,026 (2015: 10,585,898) ordinary shares with a nominal value of 2.5p were issued for an aggregate cash consideration of £790,000 
(2015: £11,284,000). In addition to this, in 2015 the Company issued shares with a fair value of £500,000 as part of the consideration for the acquisition of 
CDMS Limited. The cost associated with the issue of shares in the year was £nil (2015: £330,000).  73
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
22. Loans
In April 2014, the Group secured an Australian Dollar three year term loan of AUS$10,000,000. The debt bears an interest rate of +1.90% above the Australian 
Dollar bank bill interest swap rate (‘BBSW’) and matures in April 2017. Security on the debt is provided by way of an all asset debenture.
Group
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Opening bank loan 4,389 –
New borrowings – 5,487
Repayment of borrowings (752) (781)
Foreign currency translation adjustment 105 (317)
Closing bank loan 3,742 4,389
Analysed as:
Amounts falling due within 12 months 582 746
Amounts falling due after one year 3,160 3,643
3,742 4,389
23. Trade and Other Payables
Group Company
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Trade payables 5,572 2,538 5,051 2,273
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 10,276 7,443
Other taxes and social security costs 3,019 2,086 2,824 1,717
Accruals 8,200 9,454 6,957 7,439
Deferred income 13,752 9,906 10,395 9,203
30,543 23,984 35,503 28,075
24. Provisions
Group Company
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
2016
 £’000
2015 
£’000
Opening balance 48 315 48 315
Provided for dilapidation obligations in less than 1 year – 138 – –
Utilised (17) (405) (17) (267)
Closing balance 31 48 31 48
Provisions associated with the costs of dilapidation obligations on certain leasehold properties within the group are £25,000 (2015: £25,000). The cash flows 
associated with these provisions are expected to occur in less than one year. Costs of £6,000 are provided in relation to an onerous lease for a small property 
that is vacant following the transfer of trade, assets and liabilities of CRD (UK) Limited to the Company during a prior year.
25. Financial Instruments and Risk Management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including: market risk (including foreign currency risk and cash flow interest rate risk), credit 
risk, liquidity risk and capital management. The Group’s overall risk management programme considers the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks 
to reduce potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group does not currently use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign 
exchange exposures.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis except for credit risk relating to accounts receivable balances which each entity is responsible for managing. Credit 
risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, as well as credit exposures from outstanding customer receivables. Management assesses the credit quality of the 
customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. For those sales considered higher risk, the Group operates a policy of 
cash in advance of delivery. The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts in order to minimise exposure. Credit risk from cash and cash equivalents 
is managed via banking with well-established banks with a strong credit rating. 74
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
25. Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s foreign currency exposure arises from:
• Transactions (sales/purchases) denominated in foreign currencies;
• Monetary items (mainly cash receivables and borrowings) denominated in foreign currencies; and
• Investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation.
The Group has currency exposure on its investment in a foreign operation in Australia and partially offsets its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into 
Sterling by holding net borrowings in Australian Dollars. In terms of sensitivities, the effect on equity of a 10% increase in the Australian Dollar and Sterling 
exchange rate would be an increase of £155,000. The effect on equity of a 10% decrease in the Australian Dollar and Sterling exchange rate net of the effect 
of the net investment hedge in the foreign operation would be a decrease of £189,000.
The Group has currency exposure on its investment in a foreign operation in the United States of America. In terms of sensitivities, the effect on equity of 
a 10% increase in the US Dollar and Sterling exchange rate would be an increase of £38,000. The effect on equity of a 10% decrease in the US Dollar and 
Sterling exchange rate would be a decrease of £46,000.
The exposure to transactional foreign exchange risk within each company is monitored and managed at both an entity and a Group level.
Cash flow interest rate risk
The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates impact primarily on deposits 
and loans by changing their future cash flows (variable rate). Management does not currently have a formal policy of determining how much of the Group’s 
exposure should be at fixed or variable rates and the Group does not use hedging instruments to minimise its exposure. However, at the time of taking new 
loans or borrowings, management uses its judgement to determine whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate would be more favourable for the Group 
over the expected period until maturity. In terms of sensitivities, the effect on profit before taxation of an increase/decrease in the basis points on floating 
rate borrowings of 25 basis points would be £17,000.
Liquidity risk
Cash flow forecasting is performed on a Group basis by the monitoring of rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure that it has sufficient 
cash to meet operational needs and surplus funds are placed on deposit and available at very short notice. The maturity date of the Group’s loan is disclosed 
in note 22.
Capital management
The Group manages its capital structure in order to safeguard the going concern of the Group and maximise shareholder value. The capital structure of 
the Group consists of debt, which includes loans disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group may maintain or adjust its capital structure by adjusting the amount of dividend paid to shareholders, returning capital to shareholders, issuing 
new shares or selling assets to reduce debt.
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached 
to borrowings. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches in 
the financial covenants of any borrowings in the current period.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2015.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments and includes contractual 
interest payments:
Year ended 31 March 2016
On demand 
£’000
Less than 
12 months 
£’000
1 to 5 years 
£’000
Total
 £’000 
Loans – – 3,895 3,895
Contingent consideration – 1,068 – 1,068
Provisions – 31 – 31
Trade and other payables 5,572 11,219 – 16,791
5,572 12,318 3,895 21,785 75
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
25. Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued
Year ended 31 March 2015
On demand 
£’000
Less than 
12 months 
£’000
1 to 5 years 
£’000
Total
 £’000 
Loans – – 4,721 4,721
Contingent consideration – 5,879 1,027 6,906
Provisions – 48 – 48
Trade and other payables 2,538 11,540 – 14,078
2,538 17,467 5,748 25,753
The 2015 comparatives have been restated to include contractual interest payments, affecting only the 1 to 5 years analysis of loans. 
Use of financial instruments
A summary of the Group’s use of financial instruments is set out in the Finance Review on pages 24 to 26.
Set out below is an overview of financial instruments, other than cash and short-term deposits, held by the Group at 31 March:
2016 2015
Loans and 
receivables
£’000
Fair value 
profit or loss
£’000
Loans and 
receivables
£’000
Fair value 
profit or loss 
£’000
Financial assets:
Trade and other receivables 19,768 – 15,592 –
Total current 19,768 – 15,592 –
Total 19,768 – 15,592 –
Financial liabilities:
Loans 3,160 – 3,643 –
Contingent consideration – – – 895
Total non-current 3,160 – 3,643 895
Trade and other payables 16,791 – 14,078 –
Loans 582 – 746 –
Contingent consideration – 1,050 – 5,733
Total current 17,373 1,050 14,824 5,733
Total 20,533 1,050 18,467 6,628
All financial assets and liabilities have a carrying value that approximates to fair value. For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within the book 
value for credit risk.
The Group does not have any derivative financial instruments.
Contingent consideration
The fair value of contingent consideration is the present value of expected future cash flows based on the latest forecasts of future performance.
31 March 2016
£’000
31 March 2015 
£’000
Fair value within current liabilities:
Contingent consideration 1,050 5,733
Fair value within non-current liabilities:
Contingent consideration – 895
Liabilities for contingent consideration are Level 3 financial instruments under IFRS 13. The Group classifies fair value measurement using a fair value 
hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making measurements of fair value. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
• Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly  
(i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
For financial instruments that are recognised at the fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in 
the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period. 76
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
25. Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued
Financial liabilities
The Group has an Australian Dollar three year term loan of AUS$10,000,000. The debt bears an interest rate of +1.90% above the Australian Dollar bank bill 
interest swap rate (‘BBSW’).
The Group has an undrawn 3 year revolving credit facility agreement expiring in November 2020 which is subject to a limit of £50,000,000. The facility bears 
an initial interest rate of LIBOR +1.50%.
The facilities are secured by way of an all asset debenture.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowings which, if breached, would result in loan balances becoming immediately repayable. 
These covenants specify certain maximum limits in terms of the following: 
• Leverage
• Interest cover
At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 the Group was not in breach of any bank covenants.
26. Obligations Under Leases
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease. Lease incentives 
received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015
 £’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Not later than one year 1,066 593 749 546
After one year but not more than five years 1,585 1,352 1,232 1,341
After five years – – – –
2,651 1,945 1,981 1,887
The Group leases various administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements which have varying terms and renewal rights.
A Group company sublet surplus space in a property during the year and this agreement ended in May 2016.
27. Share-based Payments
Group and Company
The Group operates Executive Share Option Schemes under which Executive Directors, managers and staff of the Company are granted options over shares.
 
Executive Share Option Scheme
Options are granted to Executive Directors and employees on the basis of their performance. Options are granted at the full market value of the Company’s 
shares at the time of grant and are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. The options vest when the Company’s earnings per 
share (‘EPS’) growth is greater than the growth of the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) over a 3 year period prior to the exercise date. There are no cash settlement 
alternatives.
Executive Share Option Scheme (Section C Scheme)
Options are granted to Executive Directors and employees on the basis of their performance. Options are granted at the full market value of the Company’s 
shares at the time of grant and are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. The percentage of an option that will vest and be 
capable of exercise will depend on the performance of the Company. A minimum of 50% of the options will vest when the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
performance of the Company, as compared to the TSR of the FTSE Computer Services Sub-Sector over a three-year period, matches or exceeds the median 
company. The percentage of shares subject to an option in respect of which that option becomes capable of exercise will then increase on a sliding scale so 
that the option will become exercisable in full if top quartile performance is achieved.
Executive Share Option Scheme (Section D Scheme)
Options are granted to Executive Directors and employees on the basis of their performance. Options are granted at the full market value of the Company’s 
shares at the time of grant and are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. The vesting of awards under the Section D Scheme is 
subject to the achievement of a normalised EPS growth at an annual compound rate of 20% over the performance period. The base year for the purposes of 
the EPS target will be the financial year of the Company ended immediately prior to the grant of the award. The performance period will be the three financial 
years following the base year. Section D Scheme options will only become exercisable to the extent they have vested in accordance with the EPS target. 77
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
27. Share-based Payments continued
Share Matching Plan
In the year ended 31 March 2012, the Remuneration Committee introduced the Share Matching Plan. Participants who invest a proportion of their annual cash 
bonus in GBG shares can receive up to a multiple of their original investment in GBG shares, calculated on a pre-tax basis. Any matching is conditional upon 
achieving pre-determined Adjusted EPS growth targets set by the Remuneration Committee for the following 3 years. Share Matching Plan options will only 
become exercisable to the extent they have vested in accordance with the Adjusted EPS target.
GBG Sharesave Scheme
The Group has a savings-related share option plan, under which employees save on a monthly basis, over a three or five year period, towards the purchase  
of shares at a fixed price determined when the option is granted. This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price at the time of grant. The option 
must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings contract, otherwise it lapses.
The charge recognised from equity-settled share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the year is £1,245,000 (2015: £971,000).
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (‘WAEP’) of, and movements in, share options during the year.
2016 
No.
2016 
WAEP
2015 
No.
2015 
WAEP
Outstanding as at 1 April 6,724,777 26.93p 8,128,123 24.91p
Granted during the year 1,561,245 87.73p 907,489 11.12p
Forfeited during the year (13,298) 114.73p (47,732) 59.23p
Cancelled during the year (15,674) 127.43p (890) 76.80p
Exercised during the year (3,151,026) 25.07p
1
(2,242,613) 12.66p
2
Expired during the year (88,000) 35.68p (19,600) 19.47p
Outstanding at 31 March 5,018,024 46.28p 6,724,777 26.93p
 
Exercisable at 31 March 1,318,453 38.96p 2,722,038 29.64p
1 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 217.51p
2  The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 156.57p
For the shares outstanding as at 31 March 2016, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.9 years (2015: 6.1 years).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 133.46p (2015: 143.32p). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the 
end of the year was 2.50p – 272.25p (2015: 2.50p – 159.00p).
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the options were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015.
2016 2015
Dividend yield (%) 0.7–0.9 1.0 
Expected share price volatility (%) 20–25 30
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.9–1.3 1.2–1.9 
Lapse rate (%) 5.0 5.0
Expected exercise behaviour See below See below
Market-based condition adjustment (%) 48.00 48.00
Expected life of option (years) 3.0–5.0 3.0
Exercise price (p) 2.50–272.25 2.50–159.00
Weighted average share price (p) 217.51 156.17
Other than for Matching Scheme options, it is assumed that 50% of options will be exercised by participants as soon as they are 20% or more ‘in-the-money’ 
(i.e. 120% of the exercise price) and the remaining 50% of options will be exercised gradually at the rate of 20% per annum for each year they remain at or 
above 20% ‘in-the-money’.
For Matching Scheme options, it is assumed that participants will choose to exercise at the earliest opportunity (i.e. vesting date) since the exercise price is a 
nominal amount and is therefore not expected to influence the timing of a participant’s decision to exercise the options.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The market-based condition adjustment takes into account the likelihood of achieving market conditions, and allows for the fact that, if a Section C option 
vests, it does not always vest at 100%.
No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value. 78
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
28. Profit Attributable to Members of the Parent Company
The profit dealt with in the financial statements of the Parent Company is £8,317,000 (2015: £5,676,000). There are no OCI items in either financial year.
29. Description of Reserves
Equity Share Capital
The balance classified as share capital includes the total net proceeds (both nominal value and share premium) on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, 
comprising 2.5p ordinary shares.
Merger Reserve
The balance on the merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued in the 
acquisition of GB Mailing Systems by the issue of shares.
Capital Redemption Reserve
The balance classified as capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of own shares purchased back by the Company and subsequently cancelled.
30. Related Party Transactions
During the year, the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties. Transactions entered into and trading 
balances outstanding at 31 March are as follows:
Group
Sales to related 
parties 
£’000
Purchases 
from related 
parties 
£’000
Net amounts 
owed to/(by) 
related parties 
£’000
Associates:
2016 – – –
2015 – 150 –
Directors (see below):
2016 – 1 –
2015 – 33 8
Other related parties (see below):
2016 33 – (5)
2015 55 – (5)
Company
Sales to related 
parties 
£’000
Purchases 
from related 
parties 
£’000
Net amounts 
owed to/(by) 
related parties 
£’000
Subsidiaries:
2016 915 714 10,276
2015 709 128 7,443
Associates:
2016 – – –
2015 – 150 –
Directors (see below):
2016 – 1 –
2015 – 33 8
Other related parties (see below):
2016 33 – (5)
2015 55 – (5)
The Chairman of the Company incurred some expenses via his consultancy business Rasche Consulting Limited. 
The Chief Executive of the Company is a director of Zuto Limited which is a client of the Group. Transactions with them have been reported under the heading 
of ‘other related parties’ in the table above.
A Non-Executive Director of the Company is a director of Avanti Communications Group Plc which is a client of the Group. Transactions with them have been 
reported under the heading of ‘other related parties’ in the table above. 79
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
30. Related Party Transactions continued
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales and balances between related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances with entities other than subsidiaries are unsecured, 
interest free and cash settlement is expected within 30 days of invoice. Terms and conditions for transactions with subsidiaries are the same, with the 
exception that balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period. During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group has not made 
any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties (2015: £nil).
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors)
Group and Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,520 1,412
Post-employment benefits 24 22
Fair value of share options awarded 929 769
2,473 2,203
31. Business Combinations
Acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2016
Group
Acquisition of Loqate Inc.
On 27 April 2015, the Group acquired additional shares in Loqate Inc. (‘Loqate’) taking its shareholding to 100% of the voting shares. Loqate is an unlisted 
company based in the United States of America and is a leading provider of global location intelligence data and technology. The Company acquired 
Loqate to bring together all the data that sits behind its address and identity verification solutions into one common global platform – making for a 
seamless integration of registration, on-boarding and identity checking processes. It will also further support GBG’s expansion by allowing access to the 
North American market through Loqate’s significant partnerships with some of the world’s largest software companies. The Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income includes the results of Loqate for the eleven month period from the acquisition date.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Loqate as at the date of acquisition was:
Fair value 
recognised 
on acquisition 
£’000
Assets
Technology intellectual property 756
Customer relationships 1,912
Non-compete agreements 63
Plant and equipment 72
Internally developed software 18
Trade and other receivables 1,106
Cash 667
Trade and other payables (2,559)
Deferred tax liabilities (929)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 1,106
Goodwill arising on acquisition 6,502
Total purchase consideration transferred 7,608
Purchase consideration:
Cash 8,641
Value of original equity stake 247
Contingent consideration adjustment (1,280)
Total purchase consideration 7,608
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (108)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) 667
Cash paid (8,641)
Net cash outflow (8,082)
The fair value of the acquired trade receivables amounts to £627,000. The gross amount of trade receivables is £694,000. None of the trade receivables have 
been impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected. 80
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
31. Business Combinations continued
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured from Loqate due to their nature. 
These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The transaction costs of £108,000 associated with this acquisition have been expensed and are included in exceptional items in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income and are part of operating cash flows in the Cash Flow Statement.
From the date of acquisition, Loqate has contributed £4,140,000 of revenue and operating profits of £296,000 to the Group. If the combination had taken 
place at the beginning of the year, the Group revenue and operating profits would have been £73,672,000 and £9,335,000 respectively.
The fair values reported in the Interim Report were provisional due to the complexity of the determination of the fair value of certain assets and subsequent 
completion accounts adjustments to the purchase consideration. As a consequence, the identifiable net assets has reduced by £217,000 compared to that 
previously reported along with a reduction in the cash consideration of £338,000 and an overall corresponding reduction of £121,000 in the amount of 
goodwill.
Contingent consideration – Loqate
As part of the share sale and purchase agreement, a purchase price adjustment mechanism was agreed which at the acquisition date had a fair value of a 
purchase price reduction of £1,280,000 having been determined from management’s estimates of the ranges and their respective likelihoods. The contingent 
consideration adjustment was determined and settled with the sellers before the year end resulting in a repayment of £1,457,000. The difference was 
recognised as an exceptional gain item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (note 7). 
Other business combination adjustments – DecTech
During the year ended 31 March 2016, final settlement of AUS$9,500,000 (£4,700,000) was made relating to the first tranche of the contingent consideration 
on the acquisition of DecTech resulting in a reduction in the contingent consideration liability on the balance sheet. At 31 March 2016, the value of the 
second tranche of contingent consideration after partial unwinding of the discounting was AUS$1,970,000 (£1,050,000). Adjustments to the fair value of the 
contingent consideration are made in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations (note 7).
Other business combination adjustments – CDMS
During the year ended 31 March 2016, final settlement of £1,000,000 was made relating to the contingent consideration on the acquisition of CDMS resulting 
in a reduction in the contingent consideration liability on the balance sheet. Adjustments to the fair value of the contingent consideration for the unwinding of 
discounting was made in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations (note 7).
Company
Acquisition of CDMS Limited
On 1 April 2015, the Company acquired the trade, assets and liabilities of CDMS Limited at book value. Details of the assets and liabilities that were 
transferred to the Company were as follows:
Fair value 
£’000
Assets
Plant and equipment 137
Intangible assets – purchased software 23
Deferred tax assets 1,093
Trade and other receivables 2,196
Cash 1,197
Trade and other payables (1,824)
Total net assets at fair value 2,822
The Directors believe that the fair values of the assets and liabilities were equal to the book values.
Consideration for the transfer was equal to the book value of total net assets and was settled through intercompany accounts.
 
The fair value of the acquired receivables amounts to £2,196,000. The gross amount of receivables is £2,266,000. None of the receivables have been 
impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected. 81
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
31. Business Combinations continued
Acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2015
Group
Acquisition of DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd
On 9 May 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of DecTech Solutions Pty Ltd (‘DecTech’), an unlisted company based in Australia providing 
fraud detection, credit risk management and customer management solutions. The Group acquired DecTech to enhance its ability to serve its clients 
globally by augmenting and broadening its product suite with highly complementary technology that is in demand in both established and developing 
markets. The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income includes the results of DecTech for the eleven month period from the acquisition date.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of DecTech as at the date of acquisition was:
Fair value 
recognised 
on acquisition 
£’000
Assets
Technology intellectual property 1,592
Customer relationships 4,262
Non-compete agreements 101
Plant and equipment 68
Deferred tax assets 181
Trade and other receivables 957
Cash 628
Trade and other payables (1,219)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,279)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 5,291
Goodwill arising on acquisition 14,382
Total purchase consideration transferred 19,673
Purchase consideration:
Cash 14,212
Contingent consideration 5,461
Total purchase consideration 19,673
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (73)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) 628
Cash paid (14,212)
Net cash outflow (13,657)
The fair value of the acquired receivables amounts to £957,000. The gross amount of receivables is £977,000. None of the receivables have been impaired 
and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured from DecTech due to their 
nature. These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax 
purposes.
The transaction costs of £73,000 associated with this acquisition have been expensed and are included in exceptional items in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and are part of operating cash flows in the Cash Flow Statement.
From the date of acquisition, DecTech has contributed £6,000,000 of revenue and adjusted operating profits of £1,500,000 to the Group. If the combination 
had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group revenue and adjusted operating profits would have been £57,500,000 and £10,600,000 respectively.
The fair values reported in the Interim Report were provisional due to the complexity of the determination of the fair value and tax basis of certain intangible 
assets. As a consequence of the finalisation of these values, the identifiable net assets at fair value has reduced by £198,000 compared to that previously 
reported with a corresponding increase in the amount of goodwill. 82
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
31. Business Combinations continued
Contingent consideration
As part of the share sale and purchase agreement, a contingent cash consideration of up to a maximum of AUS$11,500,000 has been agreed. These  
payments are subject to certain future revenue and profit targets being met. At the acquisition date the discounted fair value of the contingent consideration 
was estimated at AUS$10,000,000 having been determined from management’s estimates of the ranges of profit forecasts and their respective likelihoods.  
At 31 March 2015, the value of the contingent consideration after partial unwinding of the discounting was AUS$11,100,000. Adjustments to the fair  
value of the contingent consideration are made in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations  
(note 7). During the year ended 31 March 2016, final settlement of AUS$9,500,000 was made relating to the first tranche of the contingent consideration on 
the acquisition of DecTech resulting in a reduction in the contingent consideration liability on the balance sheet.
Acquisition of CDMS Limited
On 1 November 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the voting shares of CDMS Limited (‘CDMS’), an unlisted company based in the UK that aggregates 
customer transactional data and delivers anti-fraud and marketing related services to both the private and public sectors in the UK. The Company acquired 
CDMS to strengthen GBG’s identity data intelligence offerings with a unique data asset, add a technology portfolio that complements GBG’s existing solutions 
and bring with it recurring revenues with blue chip customers. The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income includes the results of CDMS for the five 
month period from the acquisition date.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CDMS as at the date of acquisition was:
Fair value 
recognised 
on acquisition 
£’000
Assets
Technology intellectual property 890
Customer relationships 3,613
Plant and equipment 227
Deferred tax assets 1,093
Trade and other receivables 1,704
Cash 767
Trade and other payables (1,146)
Deferred tax liabilities (904)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 6,244
Goodwill arising on acquisition 502
Total purchase consideration transferred 6,746
Purchase consideration:
Cash 5,356
Fair value of shares issued (343,284 shares at £1.4565) 500
Contingent consideration 890
Total purchase consideration 6,746
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (258)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) 767
Cash paid (5,356)
Net cash outflow (4,847)
The fair value of the acquired receivables amounts to £1,704,000. The gross amount of receivables is £1,756,000. None of the receivables have been impaired 
and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured from CDMS due to their nature. 
These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The transaction costs of £258,000 associated with this acquisition have been expensed and are included in exceptional items in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income and are part of operating cash flows in the Cash Flow Statement.
From the date of acquisition, CDMS has contributed £3,100,000 of revenue and adjusted operating profits of £400,000 to the Group. The business had been 
loss-making prior to acquisition and if the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group revenue and adjusted operating profits would 
have been £59,400,000 and £9,800,000 respectively. 83
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
31. Business Combinations continued
Contingent consideration
As part of the share sale and purchase agreement, a contingent consideration amount of up to a maximum of £1,000,000 has been agreed. This payment, 
which will be settled by way of an issue of shares, is subject to certain future contract and revenue targets being met by the anniversary of the acquisition 
date. The number of shares to be issued to satisfy the payment will be calculated by reference to the five business day volume-weighted average price of GBG 
shares prior to the date of issue. The obligation has been classified as a liability in accordance with the provisions of IAS 32.
At the acquisition date the discounted fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated at £890,000 having been determined from management’s 
estimates of the ranges of outcomes and their respective likelihoods. At 31 March 2015, the value of the contingent consideration after partial unwinding 
of the discounting was £934,000. Adjustments to the fair value of the contingent consideration are made in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations (note 7).
Other business combination adjustments
During the year ended 31 March 2015, final settlement of £500,000 was made relating to the contingent consideration on the acquisition of TMG.tv Limited  
resulting in a reduction in the contingent consideration liability on the balance sheet. At 31 March 2014 this liability was included within non-current liabilities. 
A downwards fair value adjustment of £250,000 was made to this contingent consideration during the year reversing it to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations (note 7).
Company
Acquisition of Advanced Checking Services Limited
On 1 October 2014, the Company acquired the trade, assets and liabilities of Advanced Checking Services Limited at book value. Details of the assets and 
liabilities that were transferred to the Company were as follows: 
Fair value 
£’000
Assets
Plant and equipment 1
Intangible assets 32
Trade and other receivables 174
Cash 17
Trade and other payables (147)
Total net assets at fair value 77
The Directors believe that the fair values of the assets and liabilities were equal to the book values.
Consideration for the transfer was equal to the book value of total net assets and was settled through intercompany accounts.
 
The fair value of the acquired receivables amounts to £174,000. The gross amount of receivables is £180,000. None of the receivables have been impaired 
and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected. 84
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts continued
32. Contingent Consideration
Assets
Group and Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At 1 April – –
Recognition on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1,280 –
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 177 –
Settlement of consideration (1,457) –
At 31 March – –
Liabilities
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At 1 April 6,628 750
Recognition on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – 6,351
Reversal of contingent consideration to the Income Statement – (250)
Settlement of consideration (5,745) (500)
Unwinding of discount 255 653
Exchange differences on retranslation (88) (376)
At 31 March 1,050 6,628
Analysed as:
Amounts falling due within 12 months 1,050 5,733
Amounts falling due after one year – 895
At 31 March 1,050 6,628
The opening balance at 1 April 2015 represented contingent consideration amounts relating to the acquisition of CDMS and DecTech. During the year a final 
payment of £1,000,000 was made to settle the outstanding obligation on CDMS and a payment of £4,745,000 for the first tranche on DecTech. The closing 
balance at 31 March 2016 relates to provisions for contingent consideration for DecTech. Exchange differences of £88,000 arose from the retranslation of 
DecTech into pounds Sterling for consolidation purposes and are not part of the fair value movement on the underlying contingent consideration.
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At 1 April 934 750
Recognition on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – 890
Reversal of contingent consideration to the Income Statement – (250)
Settlement of consideration (1,000) (500)
Unwinding of discount 66 44
At 31 March – 934
Analysed as:
Amounts falling due within 12 months – 934
Amounts falling due after one year – –
At 31 March – 934
The closing balance at 31 March 2015 relates to provisions for contingent consideration for CDMS. Shareholder Information
The Investors section of the Company’s website, www.gbgplc.com, contains 
detailed information on news, key financial information, annual reports, 
share price information, dividends and key contact details. The following 
is a summary and readers are encouraged to view the website for more 
detailed information.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables shareholders 
to reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in the Company. Application 
forms can be obtained from Equiniti. You must arrange for your Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan application form to be received by Equiniti no later than 5 
August 2016 to join the plan for the final dividend for the year ended  
31 March 2016.
Share Price Information
The closing middle market price of a share of GB Group plc on 31 March 2016 
was £2.68. During the year, the share price fluctuated between £1.69  
and £2.83. The Company’s share price is available on the website,  
www.gbgplc.com, with a 15 minute delay, and from the London Stock 
Exchange website.
Share Scams
Shareholders should be aware that fraudsters may try and use high pressure 
tactics to lure investors into share scams. Information on share scams can be 
found on the Financial Conduct Authority’s website, www.fca.org.uk/scams.
Financial Calendar
Ex-dividend date for 2016 final dividend Thursday 21 July 2016
Record date for 2016 final dividend Friday 22 July 2016
Annual General Meeting  Tuesday 26 July 2016
2016 final dividend payment date  Friday 26 August 2016
Announcement of 2016 half year results December 2016
Shareholder Enquiries
GBG is aware that there may be times when shareholders may wish to 
contact the Company when there are changes in their circumstances (such  
as when they have moved house or have got married and have changed  
their name). There may also be occasions when a share certificate has  
been misplaced or lost and a duplicate copy is required. In such instances, 
GBG’s registrar, Equiniti, is able to deal with these enquiries and take the 
necessary action.
Website: https://equiniti.com/contact/
Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex,  
BN99 6DA
Phone from UK: 0371 384 2030
Phone from overseas: +44 121 415 7047
Website
In addition to accessing the latest information about the Company and its 
products and services, the following is also available from the GBG website:
• copies of announcements, press releases and case studies;
• copies of past and present annual and interim reports which can be 
viewed and downloaded.
Useful Information
85
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GBG
The Foundation
Herons Way
Chester Business Park
Chester 
CH4 9GB
United Kingdom
T +44 (0) 1244 657333
E enquiries@gbgplc.com
W www.gbgplc.com
Registered Office
GB Group plc (‘GBG’)
The Foundation
Herons Way
Chester Business Park
Chester 
CH4 9GB
(Registered in England, Number 2415211)
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
100 Barbirolli Square
Manchester
M2 3EY
Nominated Advisor and Broker
Peel Hunt
Moor House
120 London Wall
London
EC2Y 5ET
Solicitors
Squire Patton Boggs (UK) LLP
Trinity Court
16 John Dalton Street
Manchester
M60 8HA
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
GB Group plc (‘GBG’) Annual Report and Accounts 2016
