 THE LEADING  
OFFICE  
INVESTOR  
IN ROMANIA
 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Ground Floor
Dorey Court 
Admiral Park  
St Peter Port  
Guernsey GY1 2HT 
Globalworth Tower
26th Floor
201 Barbu Vacarescu Boulevard, 
2nd district
Bucharest, 020276
Romania 
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited 
Tel: +4 (0) 372 800 000
Fax: +4 (0) 371 600 000
Email: enquiries@globalworth.com 
www.globalworth.com 
 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
globalworth
TM GLOBALWORTH 
FOCUSES ON 
MAXIMISING VALUE 
FROM REAL ESTATE 
INVESTMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES IN 
ROMANIA AND THE 
BROADER CEE AND  
SEE REGION
INTRODUCTION
Green Court “B"
Overview 1
2016 Highlights 2
At a Glance 4
Investment Proposition 6
Investment Journey 8
Strategic review 10
Chairman’s Statement 12
Our Market 14
Business Model 18
Strategy In Action 20
Chief Executive’s Statement 28
Management Review 30
Investment Review 34
Leasing Review 36
Financial Review 38
Financing and Liquidity Review 40
Corporate Social Responsibility 42
Risk Report 50
Viability Statement 55
Board of Directors 56
The Team 60
Portfolio review 64
Globalworth Tower 72
BOB 74
BOC 76
Green Court Building “A” 78
Green Court Building “B” 80
Globalworth Plaza 82
Unicredit HQ 84
TCI 86
City Offices 88
Gara Herastrau 90
Upground Towers 92
TAP 94
Globalworth Campus 96
Dacia Warehouse 98
Governance 100
Corporate Governance Report 102
Directors’ Report 104
Remuneration Committee Report 107
Audit Committee Report 109
Financial Statements 112
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 114
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 115
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 116
Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows 117
Section I: Basis of Preparation 118
Section II: Investment Property 119
Section III: Financial Results 123
Section IV: Financial Assets and 
Liabilities 128
Section V: Share Capital  
and Reserves 134
Section VI: Business Combinations  
and Related Disclosures 137
Section VII: Other Disclosures 139
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Globalworth  
Real Estate Investments Limited 143
Investing Policy 149
Schedule of Properties 150
Glossary 152
Company Directory 155
Strategic r eview g overnance Portfolio r eview f inancial Statement S o verview 1 GLOBALWORTH Annu AL RepORT And fin Anci AL s TATemenT s 2016  ¡ Completed a €200 million 
equity capital raise at €8.0 per 
share, subscribed by 
Growthpoint Properties Ltd 
and Oak Hill 
 ¡ Completed a €180 million 
senior secured real estate 
bond subscribed by the 
Canada Pension Plan 
Investment Board (CPPIB) and 
Cairn Capital
 ¡ Delivered two Class “A” office 
properties in Bucharest 
increasing the total number of 
standing properties to 14
 – The flagship Globalworth 
Tower in Q1-16  
(GLA: c.54.7k sqm)
 – The Gara Herastrau office 
property in Q2-16  
(GLA: c.12k sqm)
 ¡ Signed tenancies for a total of 
98k sqm of commercial GLA in 
our properties in 2016
 ¡ Increased commercial 
standing GLA by 22% to  
370k sqm
 – Total standing GLA of     
420k sqm
 ¡ Four office and light-industrial/ 
warehouse facilities under 
construction in Bucharest and 
Timisoara
 ¡ 332k sqm of commercial space 
let or pre-let with a WALL of 
6.5 years
 ¡ Total average occupancy of 
commercial standing GLA at 
c.83.1%
 ¡ Received green accreditation 
for three office properties, 
including LEED Platinum for 
Globalworth Tower (in 2017), 
increasing the total number of 
green accredited properties in 
the portfolio to eight
2016 was a busy and successful year for Globalworth. We 
delivered strong results, improved the fundamentals of 
our business, and continued to strengthen our position 
as one of the leading real estate players in Romania and 
the wider region.  
Geoff Miller
Chairman
OPERATIONAL
2016 HIGHLIGHTS
A YEAR OF STRONG RESULTS
FINANCIAL
Portfolio open market value
€977.5m
+5% on 201 5
EPRA NAV
€783.8m
+38% on 201 5
Loan to value ratio
43.4%
EPRA NAV per share
857 cents
-6% on 201 5
NAV per share
791 cents
- 1 % on 201 5
Earnings before tax
€12.2m
€62.5m in 201 5
Normalised EBITDA
€36.3m
+62% on 201 5
NAV  
€715.4m
+43% on 201 5
Gain on the valuation of property
€6.7 m
€49 .4m in 201 5
EPRA Earnings
€8.6m
+€1 3. 9m on 201 5
Net operating income
€43.6m 
+54% on 201 5
EPRA Earnings per share
13.34 cents
+ 22.75 cents on 2015
T o learn more about our business and 
investments visit us online at globalworth.com
3 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 2 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW Standing & operational
*
 
assets: value “as is”
€882m
Current developments:
*
  
value “as is”
€78m
*For presentation purposes only we have 
included under 'Standing and Operational 
Properties' the three facilities of TAP leased to 
Valeo, Continental and Elster offering total GLA 
of 81.4k sqm valued at €42.0 million, with facilities 
either under or with potential for further 
development (Valeo, Continental and Litens) 
presented as 'Developments' with an appraised 
value of €7.5 million.
Land for development:  
value “as is”
€18m
Portfolio appraised value  
upon completion
€1. 1 bn
AT A GLANCE
COMPETITIvEL Y POSITIONED  
IN AN ATTRACTIvE MARKET
We are a fully integrated real estate company 
operating in the CEE and SEE region with a primary 
focus on Romania, where we acquire, develop and 
directly manage primarily high-quality office and 
logistics/light-industrial real estate assets.
INVESTMENT STRATEGY
SECTOR:  High-quality commercial properties, with primary 
focus on:
- Offices 
- Logistics / Light-Industrial
REGION: - CEE and SEE Region  
- Romania (primary market of focus)
ASSETS:  -  Existing or to be developed, undervalued or 
underperforming properties with transformation 
potential into performing and marketable assets 
with long / stable cash flow
TENANTS: -  Multinational corporate groups 
and financial institutions
LEASE TERMS: - Long-term  
- Triple net   
- Euro-denominated  
- Annually indexed
City Offices
5 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 4 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW Gara Herastrau & Green Court 
Buildings “A” and “B”
WE HAVE A
FULLY INTEGRATED 
PLATFORM
66 professionals, majority located in 
Bucharest
In-house expertise in investment, 
project, asset and property 
management
See MANAGEMENT REVIEW 
on page 30
WE HAVE A
LONG-TERM STABLE 
CASH FLOWS 
329k sqm of commercial space let or 
pre-let with a WALL of 6.5 years
86% of contracted rent generated by 
multinationals 
93% of commercial contracted rent 
expiring ≥ 2020
OUR FINANCIAL REVIEW 
on page 38
WE HAVE A
STRONG  
FINANCIAL POSITION
€43.6 million of net operating income, 
expected to increase further in the 
short-medium term 
LTV of 43.4% with no material debt 
maturities in the short term
c.€221 million of cash at 31 December 
2016 expected to be deployed in the 
near term
See FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
on page 112
WE HAvE A ROBUST RECORD  
OF PERFORMANCE AND  
OUR STRENGTHS POSITION  
US FOR FURTHER GROWTH
INVESTMENT PROPOSITION
WE HAVE A
PROVEN  
STRATEGY 
Investment in a diverse pool of 
properties (standing / developments) 
allowing for higher risk-adjusted returns
c.238k sqm of commercial GLA 
successfully negotiated in our 
properties
Average portfolio lease length of 
6.5 years, longer than average in the 
market 
See BUSINESS MODEL 
on page 18
WE HAVE A
FAVOURABLE  
MARKET IN WHICH  
WE OPERATE 
Romania (principal country of operation) 
is one of the fastest growing economies 
in Europe
Strong country macro-economic 
outlook
Improving real estate market, with 
further growth potential
See OUR MARKET 
on page 14
WE HAVE A
ROBUST  
TRACK RECORD
Successfully completed a number of 
corporate (debt and equity) and real 
estate transactions
Deployed €860 million in Romania’s real 
estate market in the past 3 1/2 years
Developed 170k sqm of high quality 
commercial GLA
Assembled a portfolio of high-quality 
properties valued at €1.1 billion
See INVESTMENT JOURNEY 
on page 8
Portfolio open market value
€977 .5m
+5%
7 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 6 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW Acquisition of  
UniCredit HQ and 
Globalworth Plaza
1
MAR 2015
Delivery of Continental
warehouse in TAP
APR 2015
Acquisition of
Green Court “A”
JUN 2015
Delivery of Elster
facility in TAP
SEP 2015
Equity Capital raise  
€54 million
OCT 2015
Acquisition of
Green Court “B”
DEC 2015
Delivery of  
GlobalworthTower
FEB 2016
€180 million Bond issue
subscribed by CPPIB  
and Cairn Capital
MAY 2016
Delivery of Gara 
Herastrau
JUN 2016
Equity Capital raise €200 
million subscribed by
GRT and OakHill
DEC 2016
2015
2017
Key corporate events
Acquisitions
Completion of developments
€860 MILLION OF INvESTMENTS
UNDERTAKEN SINCE INCEPTION WITH 20 PROPERTIES 
CURRENTLY WORTH €1.0 BILLION AND €1.1 BILLION  
UPON COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENTS
Incorporation of GWI
FEB 2013
Listing on LSE AIM,  
raising €54 million
JUL 2013
Acquisition of GAM
SEP 2013
Acquisition of 
Globalworth Tower site
DEC 2013
Acquisition of TCI
FEB 2014
Acquisition of BOB, BOC 
& Upground Towers
MAR 2014
Equity Capital
raise €144 million
APR 2014
Acquisition of  
GWI Campus site
JUN 2014
Acquisition of TAP
JUL 2014
Acquisition of  
Gara Herastrau &
Luterana lands
DEC 2014
2013
2015
1. Globalworth Plaza, was previously referred to as Nusco Tower.
INVESTMENT JOURNEY
9 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 8 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW STRATEGIC 
REVIEW
Chairman’s Statement 12
Our Market 14
Business Model 18
Strategy in Action 20
Chief Executive’s Statement 28
Management Review 30
Investment Review 34
Leasing Review 36
Financial Review 38
Financing and Liquidity Review 40
Corporate Social Responsibility 42
Risk Report 50
Board of Directors 56
The Team 60
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 10 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Non-Executive Directors. We believe that their extensive 
experience and business acumen will help us  
to steer Globalworth to new levels of success.  
 
Corporate Governance
The benefits of GRT’s involvement with the Company 
have become immediately apparent as we have already 
adopted some of the practices of our new principal 
shareholder. We believe that these will further improve 
the way that we operate.
 
As our business grows in scale and to increase the 
efficiency of our operations and our Board, we have 
introduced a newly formed Investment Committee.  
This committee has been established to consider and 
approve or recommend to the Board (in accordance  
with a specified delegated authority framework) 
proposed investments or divestments, financing 
arrangements, investment policies and strategy.  
It comprises five members, these being Eli Alroy 
(Chairperson), Norbert Sasse, George Muchanya,  
Ioannis Papalekas and Dimitris Raptis. 
The Board has also resolved to make certain changes to 
its committee memberships:
 ¡ Peter Fechter has joined the Remuneration Committee 
and John Whittle has stepped down as Chairperson 
and member, with myself succeeding him as 
Chairperson
 ¡ Richard van Vliet has joined the Audit Committee, 
replacing myself in the role 
I would like to thank John for his service on the 
Remuneration Committee and wish my fellow members 
every success with their new roles and responsibilities.
 
Sustainability/Social Responsibility
At Globalworth we aim to do business while adhering to 
strict business ethics and corporate social responsibility, 
which we believe adds and sustains long-term value for 
the Company, our shareholders, the community and the 
environment. 
We continue to focus on investing in environmentally 
friendly properties, having added two green certified 
buildings to our portfolio in 2016 and now having the first 
property in Bucharest and the broader SEE region to be 
awarded LEED Platinum. Of our commercial standing 
investments, 8 out of 11 have received green 
accreditation of BREEAM Excellent/LEED Gold or higher, 
and we are exploring the potential for similar 
accreditations for other properties in our portfolio.
We are also very proud to be able to give back to the 
community. Globalworth has directly or indirectly 
supported numerous local communities, charities and 
hospitals in Romania over the years, predominantly 
focused on young children, single mothers and those in 
need of palliative care.
Health and Safety
The health and safety of the people working or visiting 
our properties, our employees and our partners is of 
paramount importance to us. With over 420k sqm of 
standing GLA in our property portfolio and an additional 
79k sqm under construction at the end of 2016, and 
thousands of people working on or visiting our sites on a 
daily basis, we work hard together with our partners to 
ensure that our safety record remains intact. 
On our construction sites we monitor our contractors 
closely to ensure that proper safety measures are being 
applied to the workforce and, in the case of visitors, that 
the proper health and safety training is being performed. 
At our completed properties we conduct health and 
safety training for our tenants and undertake regular 
scenario exercises in order to secure the safety of 
employees and visitors in the event of an emergency.
With a portfolio of high-class assets, a new cornerstone 
investor and a robust balance sheet, Globalworth is in a 
strong position to pursue further asset growth through 
acquisitions.  We already announced in February 2017 our 
acquisition of Dacia’s main distribution centre facility in 
Romania and we have a strong pipeline of potential 
investments that we are pursuing.  We also aim to simplify 
our debt capital structure and reduce our average cost of 
debt and to that end are exploring a benchmark size 
Eurobond issue.  We are also considering means to broaden 
our shareholder base and enhance trading in our equity 
including the possibility of an additional listing.
Geoff Miller
Chairman
3 April 2017
Upground Towers
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL STEP IN OUR 
EvOLUTION MARKED BY ROBUST 
PERFORMANCE, IMPROvED GOvERNANCE 
AND STRONGER CAPITAL BASE
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Performance
Over the course of the year we made good progress with  
our development programme for office and light-
industrial/warehouse space in Romania while adding to 
our footprint of Class “A" offices in Bucharest with two 
new properties, one of which was the landmark 
Globalworth Tower. We continued to actively manage our 
portfolio to best position our properties in the market 
and deliver sustainable growth for the Company, our 
shareholders and the wider community in which we 
operate.
Since Globalworth’s inception in February 2013 we have 
invested c.€860 million in Romania’s real estate market, 
ranking us as one of the most active investors in the 
country over this period, and assembled a portfolio of    
15 high-quality investments valued at €977.5 million as at 
31 December 2016. 
This level of investment has been made possible through 
the support of our shareholders, our debt finance 
providers and the use of our own resources. I would like 
to highlight that, in 2016, we successfully completed two 
corporate transactions, which in our opinion should be 
included in the list of the most notable ones for the year 
in the region: 
 ¡ The €180 million bond transaction concluded in June 
2016 with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board 
(CPPIB) and Cairn Capital 
 ¡ The €200 million equity capital raise concluded in 
December 2016, fully subscribed by Growthpoint 
Properties Ltd. and Oak Hill Advisors
1
We are proud and grateful for the validation and support 
of international investors of CPPIB and Growthpoint’s size 
and reputation.
We are also pleased to be paying a dividend for the first 
time since the Company’s inception. As declared in 
December 2016, we will be distributing €40 million  
(€0.44 per share) to our shareholders in two tranches for 
2017 and have committed to distribute the equivalent of 
90% of our Funds from Operations (FFO) in the future.
Shareholder Base
We are delighted to have Growthpoint Properties Ltd. 
(GRT) as the new principal shareholder in Globalworth. 
GRT is South Africa’s largest REIT, with assets of over  
€7.5 billion, and a top-5 constituent of the FTSE EPRA/
NAREIT emerging markets index. GRT became the 
largest shareholder in the Company following its 
participation in the €200 million equity capital raise in 
December 2016, in which it invested c.€186 million.
 
GRT’s interest in further investing in the Central and 
South Eastern European region is aligned with that of the 
Company and we will be looking to leverage its support 
and best-in-class practices of operation and governance. 
Board Operation/Memberships
We believe that a close relationship and open 
communication between the Non-Executive and 
Executive Directors is critical for the smooth operation  
of the Board and to provide the right guidance for  
the Company. 
This level of close cooperation, intensified by the key 
bond and equity transactions contemplated and finally 
executed in 2016, was evidenced by our Board convening 
18 times over the course of the year to ensure that all 
appropriate actions and decisions were taken.
     
We are pleased to welcome four new members to our 
Board of Directors, which as of February 2017 comprised 
12 participants, and thank the existing directors for their 
ongoing cooperation and support. Norbert Sasse (CEO 
of GRT) and George Muchanya of Growthpoint, Peter 
Fechter and Richard van Vliet have joined the Board as 
Geoff Miller
Chairman
2016 was a busy and successful year for us.  
We continued to grow our asset base, achieved strong 
operating and financial performance, raised a total of 
€380 million through two high-profile transactions in 
the debt and equity capital markets, and welcomed a 
new cornerstone shareholder to the Company. 
1. Includes certain funds and/or accounts managed by Oak Hill Advisors 
(Europe), LLP and its affiliates.
13 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 12 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW OUR MARKET
The commercial real estate market is cyclical and in 
Romania fell to its lowest point in 2009. Since then, the 
market has been gradually recovering and, supported by 
a strong and expanding economy, this recovery has 
gained pace since 2012.
Romania is one of the few European economies that has 
expanded consistently over the past six years, outpacing 
EU average growth. Its attractive macro-fundamentals 
resulted in real GDP rising by 4.7% in 2016, the second 
highest growth rate in Europe, and the economy is 
forecast to continue to expand in the medium term. 
Growth is also underpinned by European Union grants 
and subsidies, which have been made available to the 
country since its accession to the EU in 2007. Romania is 
currently on the second phase of its European funding 
programme, which runs from 2014 to 2020, with c.€43 
billion of approved EU funds expected to flow into the 
country over that period.
The National Bank of Romania has maintained its 
monetary policy rate, with the base rate remaining 
unchanged at a record low of 1.75%, supporting the 
momentum in the economy and taking a cautious stance 
on the uncertainty in Europe caused by the Brexit vote. 
Mandatory reserve ratios for banks have also remained  
flat for both local and foreign liabilities at 8% and 10% 
respectively, providing further support to the well-
capitalised banking sector. Real estate financing 
continues to be available for good-quality projects, with 
increasing competition among financial providers (both 
local and international) leading to improved pricing and 
LTV terms for borrowers.
Investment activity in commercial real estate in Romania 
remained strong at c.€0.8 billion in 2016, with a number of 
both existing and new international investors entering 
and/or increasing their exposure to the market directly  
or indirectly. 
Interest from investors such as Growthpoint Properties 
(Globalworth), CPPIB (Globalworth), GIC (P3 Logistics 
Parks), Blackstone/Logicor (Immofinanz’s industrial assets) 
and PPF, has been added to that of the likes of NEPI, CTP, 
Lonestar/GTC Immofinanz, Skanska and, of course, 
Globalworth and we believe this will help the Romanian 
real estate market to develop further.
Prime yields for office properties stabilised at 7.5% in 
2016, but contracted further for logistics properties, 
where yields fell to 8.5% from 9.0% the previous year. 
Current prime yields in Romania are still higher than in 
most other prime markets in the CEE and SEE region, 
despite contraction and favourable market conditions, 
having fallen c.100-150bps from their peak level in 2007 
thus allowing for potential further yield compression as 
the real estate market continues to evolve.
Approximately 81% of our portfolio value is in offices 
(standing and development), with the majority of our 
properties having been built since 2011, and four having 
been completed in the past two years. Over the past 
three years, we have extensively modernised the three 
office properties in our portfolio constructed prior to 
2011 and made them more environmentally friendly.
 ¡ BOB (2008): partial refurbishment (2014-16 in stages) 
and recipient green accreditation in 2014
 ¡ BOC (2009) partial refurbishment (2012-16 in stages) 
and recipient of green accreditation in 2014
 ¡ GW Plaza (2010): under partial refurbishment 2016-17.
Our modern office stock competes directly with the 
current supply in the market, which in Bucharest has 
increased by over 50% since 2010 to reach 2.6 million sqm  
in Q4-16.
The average office vacancy rate in Bucharest decreased 
marginally in 2016 to 11.7%, although vacancy rates 
continue to vary between sub-markets and this was also 
reflected in rents.
 
Overall supply of Class “A" office space is estimated to 
increase by 300k to 500k sqm over the next two years, 
including 88k sqm developed at Globalworth Campus by 
the Company.
Demand for top-quality office space continued to be 
strong in 2016, running at almost 40% higher to the level 
of new supply. Demand was driven by companies in the 
IT&C, production/energy and financial sectors, with a 
number of multinational corporates consolidating their 
positions and expanding their operations in Romania. 
This trend was reflected in the leases signed by 
Globalworth during the year through tenants which 
included Huawei, Deutsche Bank, Honeywell, Patria Bank, 
HP and Wipro.
Class A energy-efficient office properties, which are 
easily accessible by public and private transport and 
combine high-quality space with other amenities, are in 
firm demand and maintain low vacancy rates and stable 
rents. Properties matching this profile in Globalworth’s 
portfolio, such as BOB, BOC, and Green Court “A" and 
“B", have occupancy rates of over 97%. As of March 2017 
the recently completed Globalworth Tower and Gara 
Herastrau office properties have occupancy rates in 
excess of 90%.
The light-industrial/warehouse sector in Romania was one 
of the most actively sought-after in 2016, driven by 
growth in retail consumption and industrial production. 
Rents and vacancy rates in this sector vary significantly 
depending on quality, the location of the facility and the 
lease duration. Rents for high-quality space in prime 
sub-markets have stabilised, however, and vacancy 
remains low, below 3.0% at national level. Most new 
light-industrial properties are pre-let and built-to-suit to 
the specifications of the tenants, as has been the case at 
our TAP complex where we have 97% occupancy. 
Following the completion of the new facilities under 
construction and leased to Valeo and Litens Automotive, 
occupancy in the park will rise to 98%.
Due to the cyclical nature of the real estate markets, the 
timing at which investments are made is critical to their 
long-term success and the impact they can have on 
shareholder returns. At Globalworth, we have been 
addressing this risk by investing in high-quality real estate 
properties at relatively early stages of the cycle, 
maintaining a moderate level of debt and focusing on 
signing long-term, triple net leases with a diversified pool 
of multinational tenants. We thus aim to be in a position 
to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our 
shareholders.
We believe that strong macro fundamentals will continue 
to benefit Romania’s real estate market for the 
foreseeable future. The new schemes projected to be 
completed over the next two years are spread around 
Bucharest and, given the demand for good-quality space, 
we anticipate that rental levels will remain stable.
Yields on new, prime real estate product are expected to 
contract further, supported by investors interested in 
acquiring quality stock at a discount to other CEE real 
estate markets.
Since its inception, the Company has invested exclusively in 
Romania, with over 90% of the c.€850 million of capital that 
it has deployed, targeted at Class “A” office properties in 
Bucharest and a light-industrial park in Timisoara. 
15 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 14 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
GLOBALWORTH FOCUSES 
PRIMARIL Y ON ROMANIA’S 
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE 
MARKET  OUR MARKET
CONTINUED
Investment Volume - Romania Yield Evolution Investment Volume - Romania Yield Evolution
Demand exceeding supply in the office market 
since 2011
Bucharest continues to have one of the most 
attractive return profiles in the region
17 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 16 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
2016 Romania Country Performance
Real Gross Domestic Product growth (GDP): 4.7%
Private consumption growth: 7.7%
Current account % of GDP: - 2.4%
Budget deficit % of GDP: - 1.5%
Public debt % of GDP: 37.1%
Inflation %: -0.5%
Unemployment %: 6.0%
Strong Macroeconomic Fundamentals
Full membership of the EU since 2007
Local currency: Romanian Leu
Transactions typically completed in Euros
7th largest country in the EU by population
Strategic location allowing access to the Black Sea and 
Central Europe
Excellent IT infrastructure with one of the fatest internet 
networks in the World
Continued Real GDP growth since 2011
Low public debt to GDP
Significant National and EU funding available until 2020, 
supporting investment and further infrastructure 
improvements
Stable tax system with corporate and personal income tax  
at 16%
Highly skilled workforce sustaining growth and attracting 
multinational corporates to Romania
One of the lowest costs of labour in the EU
Increasing private consumption 
Real Estate Highlights
Office demand consistently exceeding supply since 2011
Modern office stock in Bucharest of c.2.6 million sqm
Demand driven by IT&C and production sectors
Investment yields continued to contract in 2015, but remain 
higher than most CEE and SEE sub-markets
Office prime yields at 7.5%
Logistics prime yields at 8.5%
Rents stabilised, with positive outlook
MARKET REvIEW 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
'16 '15 '14 '13 '12 '11 '10 '09 '08 '07 '06
 € m
Year
Investment Volume – Romania 
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
12.00%
14.00%
'16 '15 '14 '13 '12 '11 '10 '09 '08 '07 '06 '05 '04 '03
 %
Year
Industrial Retail Ofce
Yield Evolution
Source: CBRE, JLL
Source: Ministry of Public Finance Romania, National Bank of Romania, CBRE, 
National Institute of Statistics, Jones Lang LaSalle, Colliers and the Company 
Based on March 2017 (estimates)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
'16 '15 '14 '13 '12 '11 '10 '09 '08 '07 '06
 ’000 Sqm
Year
Structural supply/demand imbalance
for commercial space in Bucharest...
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
10%
11%
12%
SLO BUL HUN POL CZR ROM
%
Capital City
Industrial Office Supply Demand BENEFITS & OUTCOMES
NAV
€715.4m
+43%
ASSETS 
 ¡ Existing or to be 
developed, undervalued or 
underperforming properties 
with transformation potential 
into performing and marketable 
assets with long / stable  
cash flow
TENANTS  
& LEASE TERMS
 ¡ Multinational corporates and 
financial institutions
 ¡ Long-term, euro-denominated, 
triple net, inflation linked
 ¡ Focus on quality, predictable, 
inflation protected cash flows, 
 ¡ with very high NOI to EBITDA 
conversion, at attractive yields
 ¡Raising of equity and debt 
capital and successful 
deployment on multiple 
investments
 ¡Attractive, risk-adjusted 
returns, through yield and 
capital appreciation
Normalised EBITDA
€36.3m
+62%
EPRA NAV
€783.8m
+38%
CLEAR & PROvEN MODEL
BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model, built upon our sources of competitive advantage, 
delivers sustainable growth and value to our stakeholders. We offer turnkey 
commercial real estate solutions and our leasing policy is to rent our office 
and other space to multinational corporate groups and financial institution 
tenants on long-term, triple net, annually indexed, euro-denominated leases.
COMPETITIvE ADv ANTAGES PROvEN INvESTMENT STRATEGY
REGION 
 ¡ CEE and SEE region
 ¡ Romania (primary market  
of focus)
 ¡ Deep market knowledge with 
local presence in Romania for  
15 years
 ¡ Contrarian play that allowed 
securing investments at discount 
to market value, offering capital 
appreciation potential
SECTOR 
 ¡ Acquisition, development and 
management of commercial 
assets
 ¡ Active management of 
underperforming / mispriced 
assets
 ¡ High-quality portfolio with 
modern Class “A” assets
STRONG MANAGEMENT TEAM 
 ¡ Proven track record
 ¡ Market knowledge
 ¡ Size and scale in core market 
HIGH QUALITY PORTFOLIO 
 ¡ Strong macro environment
 ¡ Diverse and international tenant base
 ¡ Long-term contracted cash flow 
streams
 ¡ Financial strength
 ¡ Robust euro-denominated  
rental income
 ¡ Strong corporate governance
 ¡ Integrated operating platform
 ¡ Turnkey solutions offered to tenants 
 ¡ Ability to structure complex asset 
acquisitions (distress, restructuring, 
repositioning)
19 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 18 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GLOBALWORTH TOWER
BUCHAREST’S LANDMARK 
OFFICE TOWER
STRATEGY IN ACTION 
The idea for the development of Globalworth Tower, was conceived at the 
same time as when Globalworth (the Company) was in the process of being 
established.
The Idea
We believed that the city was missing a new modern, high-rise landmark, Class “A” 
office building which would demonstrate the same characteristics found in Western 
Europe. Mainly a multi-floor, high-rise, energy-efficient, Class “A” office property, 
with a large floor plate and a high utilisation coefficient, that would be easily 
accessible by both public and private transportation. 
We believed that this product would be very attractive to large multinational tenants 
operating in Romania, who were looking to replicate international trends and 
practices for their activities in the country. At the same time, offering a high quality 
work space, which is easily accessible to employees, further incentivises 
performance and work ethic.
A building demonstrating all the aforementioned characteristics did not exist in 
Bucharest and as such we decided to develop it ourselves as Globalworth!
The Implementation
Key in every real estate investment is the location of the property to be acquired / 
development and when the site on 201 Barbu Vacarescu Street became available we 
acted quickly to secure it. The property displays all the key characteristics we were 
looking for:
 ¡ Accessibility: located next to the metro station (max 5min walk to all other public 
transport)
 ¡ Visibility: the site is located at the corner of three main road arteries
 ¡ Shape: the site has a rectangle shape
 ¡ Building coefficient: allowing the development of a c.54,700sqm GLA above 
ground
 ¡ Height coefficient: allowing the development of a 120 meter tower
As we secured the site to be developed, we initiated the design and permitting 
process for the project. Considering the overall size of the development, we were 
looking to have mainly restaurants and commercial uses on the ground floor and 
offer premium Class “A” office space on all other floors above ground.
The restaurants and coffee shops, together with the development of the  
Mega Image concept store offer multiple options for the people working at 
Globalworth Tower, and allow them to socialise, have business meetings and find 
alternative culinary options.
On the 26 floors above ground, we offer premium Class “A” office space, with above 
average height (2.85m) and great views to our tenants.
- 1ST LEED PLATINUM CLASS “A” OFFICE IN THE SEE
- 2ND TALLEST OFFICE IN ROMANIA
- 2ND LARGEST SINGLE ASSET OFFICE IN ROMANIA
Development Timeline
FEB 2016 
Property formally delivered
NOv 2015 
Façade completed
AUG 2015  
Construction reached Floor 26
JUL 2015  
Construction reached Floor 20
MAR 2015 
Construction reached Floor 10
OCT 2014  
Construction reached Ground level
APR 2014 
Construction commenced
MAR 2014 
Building permit issued
DEC 2013 
Acquisition of the site completed
JUL 2013 
Agreement to acquire the site 
to be developed
Development completed in 
23 months
Average number of floors per 
month delivered
2.5 
21 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 20 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION  
CONTINUED
Area & Access
Globalworth Tower is centrally located in one of Bucharest’s 
most “dynamic” business hubs to the north of the city. The 
northern part of the city, due to its excellent infrastructure, 
close proximity to the airport and availability of land plots 
has attracted significant investment by both landlords and 
(mainly international) occupiers in recent time, and has 
evolved to become the New CBD of Bucharest.
The property is strategically positioned at the entrance of 
the new CBD and enjoys a direct opening to three main 
streets (Barbu Vacarescu Street, Pipera Road and Calea 
Floreasca Road), which in conjunction with its great height 
(c.120m), results in a high level of visibility. 
Globalworth Tower is easily accessible by public transport 
as the Aurel Vlaicu Square subway station, three bus stops 
and two tram stations are located within a 5 minutes’ walk 
from the property. In addition Globalworth Tower is also 
accessible by car from the three aforementioned streets, 
namely Barbu Vacarescu Street, Pipera Road and Calea 
Floreasca Road.
Average number of  builders 
on site per day
c.550  
Shifts working at the peak  
of the construction
3 
On site builders at the height 
of the construction process
1,050  
KEY FACTS
LOCATION:  North Bucharest (New CBD)
ADDRESS: 201 Barbu Vacarescu Street, Sector 2, 020276, 
Bucharest, Romania
TYPE:   Class “A” Of fice
YEAR OF COMPLETION:  2016
GROSS BUILD AREA: 78,173sqm
GROSS LEASABLE AREA: 54,686sqm  – 2nd largest single office in 
Romania
GREEN CERTIFICATION: LEED Platinum – 1st building in Romania and 
the SEE to receive this green accreditation
ARCHITECT: Architect Service lead by Costantin Ciurea
LANDLORD  
/ DEvELOPER: 
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Ltd
CONTRACTOR: Bog’ Art 
PROJECT MANAGER: Globalworth Asset Managers SRL
PROPERTY MANAGER: Globalworth Building Managers SRL
ASSET MANAGER: Globalworth Asset Managers SRL
TENANTS (SELECTED): Vodafone (telecoms), Huawei (telecoms), 
NNDKP (law), Wipro (IT), Delhaize /  
Mega Image (retail-FMCG), Bunge (services), 
Ferrero (confectionery), Anritsu Solutions 
(services) and Globalworth (real estate)
AWARDS: Best Big Office Development of 2016  
(CIJ Awards 2016 – Romania)
Globalworth Tower
23 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 22 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW A state-of-the-art development, balancing office, retail and other supporting 
amenities over 88.6k sqm. It combines high technical and environmentally 
friendly specifications of three Class “A” office towers, with green areas and a 
dedicated commercial component. In addition a running track, electric vehicle 
charging station, bicycle racks, coffee shops and restaurants promoting healthy 
lifestyle. The project will be complimented by one of Bucharest’s largest 
conference centres, providing the infrastructure for a continuous learning  
process for companies and employees alike.
GLOBALWORTH CAMPUS
DELIvERING A NEW CLASS “A” OFFICE 
COMPLEX WHERE BUSINESS CAN BE 
INNOvATIvE AND FLOURISH.
No other office development 
in Bucharest will exemplify the 
work–life balance so clearly as 
Globalworth Campus.
High-quality space
88.6k sqm 
STRATEGY IN ACTION  
CONTINUED
25 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 24 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
24 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 25 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 DIMITRIE POMPEIU BLVD.
3 TOWER 
PIPERA
CONFERENCE "
HALL
TOWER 2
2S + P + 12E + Th
2S + P + 12E + Th
2S + P + 12E + Th
TOWER 1
UNDERGROUND
CAR ACCESS
PUBLIC
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS ACCESS ACCESS
PUBLIC
ACCESS
ACCESS
UNDERGROUND
CAR ACCESS
UNDERGROUND
CAR ACCESS
FIRE TRUCK
ACCESS
FIRE TRUCK
ACCESS
FIRE TRUCK
ACCESS
FIRE TRUCK
ACCESS
STRATEGY IN ACTION  
CONTINUED
 Building management system  
 with full control of the equipment  
 and billing system for utilities,  
 parking with controlled access
 Four pipes independent HVAC  
 system with fan-coils mounted  
 on the ceiling
 2.8m clear height with built-in  
 HVAC systems, lighting and fire  
 detection and alarm
 Emergency generator for the vital  
 systems and common areas of  
 the building
 Telecom and internet services 
 24h/7 days security and safety
 Controlled access and video  
 surveillance system
 Smoke detectors and fire  
 alarm system
 Interior hydrants and  
 sprinkler system
 Green certification targeted
 Public announcement system
 High-efficiency chillers
 Energy-saving heating plant  
 (boilers with condensation)
 Energy-saving air handling units  
 with heat recovery and free  
 cooling
 Dedicated chiller backed up by  
 generator for server rooms
 Sprinkler system on all common  
 and office areas
 
Easy orientation by proper   
 signs for parking,   
         entrances, lobbies, common  
 spaces, elevators and exits
 Open space area per floor 
 Efficiently organised areas with  
 very few lost common spaces
 The central lobbies and staircases  
 efficiently placed on the floor  
 area, facilitate the partitioning  
 and the decorating of the rented  
 space depending on the specific  
 requirements of each tenant
  Each floor benefits from  
 natural light
 High-performance solar control  
 glass with advanced thermal  
 insulation properties (SGG Cool- 
 Lite ST 120)
Globalworth Campus will blend office, retail and other 
functions in an 88k sqm GLA development. The project 
built in two phases, will incorporate the latest 
technologies and high functionality, in order to deliver 
the very best of office experiences.
Phase A - comprising two towers, each with GF + 12 
Floors above ground, is currently under construction and 
will offer total GLA of 56.9k sqm upon completion in      
Q1-18.
With a 2,300 sqm floor plate, the two towers will have a 
320 employee floor efficiency and a 1 to 80 parking ratio.
The overall project will be anchored by a 3,000 sqm retail 
gallery and a 720 seat conference centre, which combined 
with its unique running track, will make it the focal point 
of Bucharest’s New CBD.
Class “A" energy-efficient office properties, which are 
easily accessible by public and private transport and 
combine high-quality space with other amenities,  
are in firm demand and maintain low vacancy rates  
and stable rents.
DEVELOPMENT SNAPSHOT 
 ¡ 88.6k sqm of  
high-quality space
 ¡ Three office towers 
developed in two phases
 ¡ Retail and leisure area
 ¡ Conference centre
 ¡ Unique running track 
 ¡ 2.3k sqm office floor plate
 ¡ 320 employee  
floor efficiency
 ¡ Two underground levels
 ¡ 1 to 80 parking ratio
 ¡ Aiming for BREEAM 
Excellent
ACCESS
 ¡ Excellent access by public 
and private transport
 ¡ Metro station directly in 
front of the property 
•  10 minutes to the  
city centre
 ¡ 20 minutes’ drive to the 
airport
 ¡ Bus and tram stops  
within 5 minutes’ walk
Site map
Globalworth Campus is the latest project to  
be developed by Globalworth and upon its 
completion will be the pivotal element of the 
Dimitrie Pompeiu sub-market in Bucharest’s 
New CBD.
Technical specifications
27 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 26 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Ioannis Papalekas
Chief Executive Officer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
We have put together what we believe to be a high-
quality and resilient portfolio in our principal market of 
Romania, assembled through disciplined buying, 
development and active management of space.
We are proud to see that our hard work to-date has been 
validated by interest in the Company from highly 
reputable international institutional investors. The 
transactions closed in 2016 with investors of CPPIB and 
Growthpoint’s calibre mark a considerable endorsement 
of Globalworth and its position in the market. This has 
further incentivised us to continue on our growth path.
Essential to the success of the Company is the 
environment in which we operate. Romania remains our 
primary focus and its real estate market continues to 
provide the right foundations for us to implement our 
strategy. We will, however, also be looking to diversify our 
portfolio through acquisitions in the wider CEE and SEE 
regions.
In 2016, the Romanian macro environment was again 
positive, resulting in real GDP expanding by 4.7%, one of 
the highest growth rates in Europe. In addition, Romania 
continued to have one of the lowest public debt to GDP 
ratios and, with disposable income remaining strong, 
increased private consumption is expected to support 
further growth. The banking sector remains well-
capitalised and competition between banks to deploy 
capital for good-quality real estate projects has resulted 
in a further improvement in financing terms. EU and 
national funds continue to be available to the country 
(more than €43 billion to be provided over a seven year 
period from 2014-2020), with the absorption rate 
expected to pick up in 2017, further incentivising 
investment in Romania and underpinning its growth in 
the short to medium term.
The strength of the macro-economic environment has 
been reflected in the performance of Romania’s real 
estate sector, with demand for office and industrial estate 
space reaching historically high levels and significantly 
outweighing supply.
Investment yields in the office market were stable at 7.5% 
in 2016, mainly due to a limited number of transactions 
being completed during the year, while yields for 
industrial properties narrowed by an additional 50 basis 
points to 8.5% by year end. With a view to achieving 
attractive, risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders, we 
have invested in both standing, income-generating 
properties as well as properties to be developed by the 
Company. Our blended, stabilised NOI yield on capital 
invested is estimated at c.10%. 
In 2016 we made good progress with our development 
programme for office and light-industrial/warehouse 
space in Romania, investing c.€39 million in six projects 
and an additional c.€4 million in other standing properties 
in our portfolio.  
We completed two properties located in the new Central 
Business District (CBD) of Bucharest offering a total of 
66.7k sqm of Class A office space, thus increasing our 
total footprint of standing properties to 420k sqm at the 
end of 2016. In addition, four other properties were under 
construction. Three are expected to be finalised in 2017 
and one at the beginning of 2018 which, upon 
completion, will add a further 78.4k sqm of high-quality 
office and industrial space to our portfolio.
We are particularly proud that our flagship development 
project Globalworth Tower was delivered in Q1-16. 
Globalworth Tower is a landmark Class “A" office 
property located at the heart of Bucharest’s New CBD. 
 At c.120 metres high and with GLA of 54.7k sqm, this is 
the second tallest tower and the second largest single 
office building in Romania. In addition, in 2017 the 
property was awarded a LEED Platinum rating, thus 
becoming the first building in Romania and the broader 
SEE region to have received the highest available Green 
accreditation.
In addition to Globalworth Tower, in 2016 we received 
Green accreditation for two other properties in our 
portfolio. Our commitment to investing in 
environmentally friendly properties is further 
demonstrated by the fact that over the past three-and-a-
half years we have either acquired (3), developed (3) or improved the 
efficiency (2) of our office properties and currently 8 out of 10 of these 
hold Green accreditation of BREEAM Excellent/LEED Gold or higher.  
We are exploring the potential for similar accreditation for other 
properties in our portfolio, both standing and development projects.
The portfolio value at the end of year was 5% higher at €977.5 million 
as compared to 31 December 2015, principally due to the completion 
of the two development projects and to further investment made on 
projects under construction. On delivery, these developments 
(including Globalworth Campus Phase B) will add an additional c.€115 
million to our portfolio (“On Completion” valuation of c.€1.1 billion).  
Total revenue generated by our portfolio increased to €68.2 million 
(€44.8 million in 2015) following the acquisition of income-generating 
assets in 2014 and 2015, the completion of own-developments, and as 
a result of active asset management. 2016 was a record year for 
leasing for us, as we let or renegotiated c.98k sqm of commercial GLA 
in our properties. Our tenant base remains diversified in terms of 
both origin and sector and comprises more than 90 different national 
and multinational corporates, including some of the best-known blue-
chip corporates from over 19 different countries and 27 sectors.
As at 31 December 2016, our standing portfolio (excluding the 
Upground Towers residential complex) offered GLA of 370k sqm  
and had an occupancy rate of 83.1%. As of year end, Globalworth  
had a combined total of c.330k sqm of GLA leased in our standing 
and development projects, while since the beginning of 2017 we  
have leased further space, thus increasing the overall occupancy of 
our portfolio.
The rise in the Company’s revenues was reflected in our normalised 
EBITDA from ongoing operating activities increasing to €36.3 million 
in 2016, up 62.4% compared to 2015 (€22.4 million), and our 
underlying EPRA EPS of €13.33 (negative in 2015).
The Company’s overall leverage remained at a moderate level, with 
LTV of 43.4% at 31 December 2016, marginally lower than the previous 
year (43.9% in 2015). We managed, however, to significantly improve 
our financing position through the issue of a €180 million bond, which 
was directly negotiated/subscribed to by the Canada Pension Plan 
Investment Board (CPPIB) and Cairn Capital. As a result of this 
landmark transaction and other bank financings completed during 
the year, we de-risked our balance sheet by replacing short-term 
liabilities with longer-term ones and reduced our weighted average 
cost of debt by 0.9% to c.5.3% (as at 31 December 2016).
At the end of 2016, we completed our largest and most successful 
equity capital issue to date in a transaction resulting in the Company 
raising €200 million new capital at €8.0 per share. The transaction was 
93% subscribed by Growthpoint Properties, which is now the largest 
shareholder in Globalworth, with the remaining equity being 
provided by Oak Hill. 
Although completed at a 13% discount to the latest (September 2016) 
EPRA NAV, the capital raise was priced:
 ¡ at a 58% premium to the closing share price prior to the 
announcement; and
 ¡ at a 33% premium to the previous capital raise completed in 
October 2015.
At this point I would like to welcome Growthpoint to the Globalworth 
family. l look forward to working closely with them and together 
steering the Company to new levels of success. 
Our EPRA NAV increased by 38% to €783.8 million as of 31 December 
2016, mainly as a result of the €200 million equity capital raise 
concluded in December 2016. The revaluation of development 
projects, which were either delivered or whose construction made 
further progress in 2016 also contributed to the increase. EPRA NAV 
per share, however, decreased by 6% to €8.57 as a result of the 
dilutive effect of the cash raised in December 2016 from the equity 
capital raise. We believe, however, that as we invest the equity raised 
in new, exciting opportunities and return capital through dividends, 
both our existing and our new shareholders will benefit from 
significant value creation in the near term.
Working towards this goal, in December 2016 we announced that we 
will be distributing €40 million (€0.44 per share, assuming no further 
issue of shares except for the shares issued or to be issued as part of 
the Dec 2016 capital raise) to our shareholders in 2017. A dividend of 
€0.22 per share, will be distributed in respect of the six-month 
financial period ending on 30 June 2017, marking the first time that 
Globalworth will be distributing dividends since it was established in 
February 2013. We are committed to continue paying dividends in the 
future on a semi-annual basis and, following the already announced 
distributions for the year, we will be paying dividends equal to not 
less than 90% of the Company’s FFO to our shareholders.
Globalworth’s continued growth could not have been achieved 
without its people. I would like to thank our team of 66 professionals 
for their consistent and continuous efforts over the years. In order to 
continue to progress it is important that we keep attracting, 
developing and supporting talent, as well as constantly improving the 
efficiency and effectiveness of our operations. To that end we have 
over the past one-and-a-half years been investing in developing our 
in-house ERP software. This has already improved our overall 
operational effectiveness and efficiency and is expected to yield 
further benefits in the future. 
The delivery of the landmark Globalworth Tower development marks 
the completion of a major chapter for the Company, as all the 
investments identified at the time of the Company’s IPO of July 2013 
have now materialised. Looking at what we were hoping to realise 
back then and what we have actually to-date achieved, I cannot be 
anything but proud. 
With a new cornerstone investor, a Company with a solid portfolio, 
sound operations, a robust balance sheet, and an improving real 
estate market, I am excited about the next chapter in Globalworth’s 
evolution.
Ioannis Papalekas
Chief Executive Office
3 April 2017
Over the past three-and-a-half years, Globalworth has 
become the largest owner of Class “A” office property in 
Romania and one of the leading investors in the 
country’s commercial real estate market.
DELIvERING STRONG RESULTS & 
PREPARING FOR THE NEXT STAGE 
OF GROWTH
29 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 28 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW MANAGEMENT REVIEW 
READY TO TAKE ADvANTAGE
OF EXISTING AND UPCOMING 
OPPORTUNITIES 
2016 was a year in which management focused on 
improving the fundamentals of the business and better 
positioning Globalworth as it implements its strategy of 
becoming one of the leading real estate players in 
Romania and the wider CEE and SEE regions.
Efforts were concentrated on making significant progress 
with our development programme, actively managing  
our portfolio of real estate assets, strengthening the 
Company’s balance sheet and continuing to optimise  
the way in which Globalworth operates. 
As a result, no new third-party real estate acquisitions 
were completed during the year, although we remained 
active in sourcing a pipeline of exciting opportunities, 
one of which has already been announced in Q1-17  
and more are expected to be concluded during the 
course of the year.
Progress with Globalworth’s 
Development Programme
Globalworth has a very active development programme. 
The Company was engaged with projects involving six 
new buildings in 2016 which, upon completion, will offer 
c.200k sqm of Gross Build Area (GBA) and c.145k sqm of 
Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
At the beginning of the year, the Company was in the 
process of finalising its flagship Class “A" Globalworth 
Tower office property and had three other office 
buildings under construction, all located in the New CBD 
of Bucharest. Our development programme expanded 
further in 2016 following agreements signed with  
Valeo Lighting and Litens Automotive, which will result  
in further growth at our TAP light-industrial complex in 
Timisoara, with two new facilities currently under 
construction.
One of our primary targets for 2016 was to deliver to 
market two Class “A" offices, our flagship Globalworth 
Tower and the smaller Gara Herastrau office property, 
thus increasing our total footprint of standing office GLA 
by c.66.7k sqm. We are very proud to have met this target, 
with Globalworth Tower opening its doors to tenants in 
February and the Gara Herastrau office property in June.
Our footprint of standing properties is expected to 
increase further in 2017/18 as we currently have two active 
projects at different stages of development which, upon 
completion, will offer total GLA of 78.4k sqm.  
In Bucharest, phase A of our Globalworth Campus project 
is under construction (total GLA 56.9k sqm), with Tower I 
expected to be completed in 2017 and Tower II at the 
beginning of 2018. In Timisoara we completed a facility 
let to Valeo Lightning in Q1-17 and a second pre-let to 
Litens Automotive is scheduled for delivery in 2017, 
adding c.21.5k sqm of GLA to our TAP complex. 
In 2016 we invested c.€42.7 million in the development 
and extraordinary maintenance of our real estate 
portfolio, c.90% of which was in 6 projects under 
development.
Overall, we are very pleased to have been able to deliver 
according to plan in 2016 and to have done so within  
the scheduled delivery dates and budget, as well as to  
be on track for the projects currently under construction. 
Completing real estate projects on time and within 
budget is key to the success of our business and our  
ability to do so is a reflection of the capabilities of our 
internal project management team, in conjunction with 
those of our partners, and has been key to our successful 
track record to-date.
Investment in Standing Portfolio
In 2016, Globalworth maintained its commitment  
of having a modern portfolio of high-quality and 
environmentally friendly real estate properties, with  
the Company receiving Green accreditation for two  
properties - Green Court “B" (LEED Gold) and Gara 
Herastrau (BREEAM Excellent), raising the number of 
Green-certified properties in our portfolio to seven.  
We remain committed to investing in environmentally 
friendly schemes and aim to further increase our number 
of such properties in the short to medium term, with five 
other properties currently at various stages of Green 
accreditation, the first of which was Globalworth Tower 
that has received LEED Platinum accreditation in 2017.
Dimitris Raptis
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer
In addition, as part of our efforts to maintain and  
improve the marketability of our portfolio, we initiated  
a renovation and repair programme involving four of  
our portfolio properties. 
The first project involved the common areas (indoor and 
outdoor) of the cluster of properties formed by BOB (office), 
BOC (office) and Upground Towers (residential), with works 
including landscaping, general repair works, the upgrade  
of light features and the repainting of selected areas.  
The second project involved the re-introduction to the 
market of the property now branded as Globalworth Plaza 
(formerly Nusco Tower) and the renovation/modernisation 
of the lobby, conversion of the first floor terrace to a roof 
garden and upgrade of the building’s façade. 
We are currently reviewing alternative solutions for  
other properties in our portfolio as we are committed to 
providing our tenants and their employees with the best 
possible product.
Optimising Capital Efficiency
Efficiently managing our combination of equity and debt 
financing is key in order to achieve a balance that allows 
for the rapid growth of the Company, enhances 
shareholder returns in the medium-term, and controls the 
inherent risk associated with third-party debt.
During the year we completed a number of debt and equity 
transactions that have allowed us to de-risk our balance 
sheet and provide us with funds that will facilitate further 
investment in our development projects and new pipeline 
opportunities, and thus the growth of the Company.
In 2016 we successfully raised c.€224 million from debt 
financing providers at an average cost of 6.5% and  
€200 million from equity investors at an average share 
price of €8.0 per share.
Debt Transactions
During the year, three new facilities were completed 
involving either the refinancing of existing facilities at 
improved terms or the raising of new debt against 
unencumbered properties.
The most notable transaction was the €180 million senior 
secured real estate bond, which was directly negotiated and 
subscribed to by the CPPIB and Cairn Capital and 
completed in May 2016. Part of the proceeds were used to 
repay a €100 million short-term corporate level facility 
expiring in 2016. Other transactions completed during the 
period included the re-financing of the TAP investment by 
BCR and the financing of the Gara Herastrau office 
building by Garanti Bank.
The new facilities agreed in 2016 resulted in the reduction 
of Globalworth’s weighted average cost of debt from 
approximately 6.2% as at 31 December 2015 to 
approximately 5.3% at 31 December 2016. In addition,  
the consolidated LTV ratio has remained at the moderate 
level of approximately 43.4% as at 31 December 2016 
(approximately 43.9% at 31 December 2015), well  
below the 60% level which Globalworth is committed  
to maintaining at all times.
Equity Transactions
In December 2016 we successfully completed a  
€200 million new equity capital raise at €8.0 per share. 
The transaction, which is transformational for the 
Company, was subscribed to by Growthpoint Properties 
Limited (GRT) and certain funds and/or accounts 
managed by Oak Hill Advisors (Europe), LLP and its 
affiliates (Oak Hill).
As a result of this transaction, GRT became the principal 
shareholder of Globalworth with a 26.9% stake and the 
Company further strengthened its shareholder base with 
the addition of one of South Africa’s leading REITS as one 
of its anchor investors. 
Portfolio High Occupancy Rate supported  
by High-Quality Long-Term Leases
Our ability to achieve high occupancy rates in our 
properties remains one of the key strengths of our 
Company. 2016 was our best year so far, having 
successfully negotiated the take-up or extension of  
98k sqm of commercial GLA, increasing our overall total 
since 2014 to c.238.1k sqm and confirming the Company’s 
position as one of the most successful investors and 
developers in the Romanian real estate market and the 
wider CEE/SEE region.
New commercial leases signed in 2016 more than 
doubled on the previous year and accounted for c.71%  
of the overall total space signed. These agreements 
included some of Romania’s best-known national and 
multinational corporates and were signed at a WALL of 
c.7.0 years, in line with the Company’s strategy of 
agreeing long-term lease contracts. 
We are pleased to see demand for office and light-
industrial space increasing as the performance of tenants 
continues to improve. Demand in our properties has 
originated from:
 ¡ existing tenants expanding their occupancy as a  
result of growth in their respective business activities  
(e.g., Valeo, Huawei and Deutsche Bank); 
 ¡ existing tenants seeking to maintain stability and run 
their operations without interruption and, as such, 
renegotiating their leases by removing break options 
and/or extending the term of the contracts (Hewlett 
Packard Enterprises, Honeywell and Cegeca); and 
 ¡ new tenants wishing to take up space in high-quality 
properties owned and managed by Globalworth  
(e.g. Litens Automotive, Patria Bank, WIPRO, Anritsu, 
Bunge and Ferrero).   
At the end of December 2016, the average occupancy  
rate of the standing commercial portfolio was c.83.1%, 
while the WALL of our commercial leases was c.6.5 years. 
The portfolio is occupied by a diversified, high-quality 
tenant mix, comprising some 90 national and multinational 
corporates from more than 19 different countries.
31 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 30 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW MANAGEMENT REVIEW 
CONTINUED
High-Quality Team of Professionals Based  
in Bucharest & Improved Infrastructure 
In 2016, we continued to invest in our team of skilled 
professionals through selected hires in our core and 
support teams and to upgrade our infrastructure through 
the implementation of our new ERP system. This 
investment was considered necessary as Globalworth 
now has more than 420.0k sqm of GLA under 
management in its real estate portfolio and this is 
expected to increase in the future.
Our talent pool now totals 66 professionals, the majority 
located in Bucharest. Our local presence in our core 
Romanian market has allowed us to develop a broad 
network of relationships over the years among owners, 
occupiers, property specialists and community 
representatives, as well as domestic and international 
investors and capital providers.
These relationships and our local market knowledge have 
given us an advantage in identifying and investing in 
opportunities as and when they become available, either 
publicly or off-market.
Furthermore, investment in skilled professionals and 
high-quality and customised technology has allowed us 
to service our business partners and service providers 
more effectively, as well as improving our economies of 
scale and the overall efficiency of our operations. 
Pipeline of Investment to  
Facilitate Further Growth 
Management continued to work intensively to source  
new opportunities and facilitate further growth in the 
Company. Opportunities under consideration are located 
both in our core Romanian market as well as in the 
broader CEE/SEE regions, where Globalworth will  
be seeking to invest in the future. 
We are pleased to have been able to announce our first 
transaction for 2017 in February, involving the acquisition 
of a modern warehouse leased solely to Automobile Dacia, 
Romania’s largest corporate, on a long-term basis.  
The facility, which offers total GLA of c.68.4k, was 
acquired for a total of €42.5 million reflecting an attractive   
NOI yield of c.9.6%.
We look forward to announcing more exciting 
transactions in 2017.
Dimitris Raptis
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer
3 April 2017
CASE STUDY
In December 2016 Globalworth successfully 
completed a €200 million new equity capital raise at 
€8.0 per share. The transaction was subscribed to by 
Growthpoint Properties Limited (GRT) and certain 
funds and/or accounts managed by Oak Hill Advisors 
(Europe), LLP and its affiliates (Oak Hill).
The issue price represented a: 
 ¡ 58.4% premium to the closing share price  
on the date prior to the announcement of  
the transaction; and
 ¡ 12.6% discount to the 30 September 2016 
period-end EPRA NAV of €9.15 (unaudited). 
GRT subscribed to 23.3 million shares (c.93%) and 
Oak Hill the remaining 1.7 million shares. In addition, 
and as part of the overall transaction, Globalworth 
issued an initial tranche of 1.1 million Fee Shares to 
GRT and Oak Hill, with a further tranche of an 
additional 1.1 million Fee Shares to be issued to GRT 
and Oak Hill by no later than 31 December 2017.
This milestone transaction was completed on  
20 December and, as of that date, the number  
of Globalworth’s total shares in issue increased to  
90.4 million. All shares in issue have been  
admitted for trading on AIM.
The proceeds raised from the offering will be used:
 ¡ to develop the Globalworth Campus project;
 ¡ to pursue attractive, pre-identified investment 
opportunities in line with the Company’s 
investing policy; and
 ¡ for other general corporate purposes.
Resulting from the transaction, Globalworth’s main shareholders are:
Name
Number of shares held immediately  
following the subscription*
Percentage interest in issued share capital  
immediately following the subscription*
GRT 24,300,000 26.88
I. Papalekas 23,247,028 25.72
York 16,770,113 18.55
Oak Hill 10,169,574 11.25
Gordel Hold. Ltd 3,835,141 4.24
Other 12,075,092 13.36
Note:
* Including the initial tranche of Fee Shares but excluding the second tranche of Fee Shares.
€200 MILLION EQUITY 
CAPITAL RAISE
GRT is the largest listed South African REIT with assets in excess of €7.5 billion in South 
Africa and Australia (through its 64.3% owned ASX listed Growthpoint Properties 
Australia) Commercial (offices)
GRT is the 26th largest company on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and a top 5 
constituent of the FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Emerging Index and has been included in the 
FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index for seven years running 
 – GRT has a market capitalisation of approximately €5 billion 
  The company owns and manages a diversified portfolio of 533 property assets 
spanning approximately 6.7 million square meters 
 – The South Africa portfolio comprises 473 properties and a 50% interest in the 
properties at V&A Waterfront (Cape Town), with a total 5.7 million square meters of 
retail, office and industrial properties
 – GRT’s Australian subsidiary owns a portfolio 59 properties
Constrained by South Africa’s Sovereign rating, GRT has a Moody’s Global Scale rating 
of Baa2/P-2 (same as the sovereign rating) and is the only non-financial South African 
corporate with a Moody’s National Scale Rating of Aaa.za
GRT is the largest shareholder of Globalworth Real Estate Investments Ltd with a 26.9% 
stake following its €186 million investment in December 2016
 – Its strategy is to invest in the Central and Eastern European region, with Globalworth 
identified as its corporate partner 
33 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 32 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
Q4/
2016
Q2/
2016
Q4/
2015
Q2/
2015
Q4/
2014
Q2/
2014
Q4/
2013
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
4
8
14
11
15 15 15
€ m
Number of Investments
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
Q4/2016 Q2/2016 Q4/2015 Q2/2015 Q4/2014 Q2/2014 Q4/2013
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
4
8
14
11
15 15 15
€ m
Number of Investments
DELIvERING BEST -IN-CLASS 
OFFICE PROPERTIES 
Globalworth’s development programme was our principal 
focus in 2016, with the Company developing six new 
buildings during the course of year which, upon completion, 
will offer GBA of c.200.0k sqm and GLA of c.145k sqm.
Overall, we invested €42.7 million in 14 properties within our 
portfolio, the majority of which are in four developments – 
Globalworth Tower, Gara Herastrau, Globalworth Campus 
Phase A and TAP – accounting for 90% of the total.
New Deliveries
 ¡ Globalworth Tower: In February 2016 we delivered 
Globalworth Tower to market, a landmark Class “A” 
office property which extends over 26 floors above 
ground and three levels underground offering total GBA 
of 78.2k sqm. The project was finalised 23 months after 
the commencement of construction works. 
 ¡ Gara Herastrau: In June 2016 we delivered our second 
project under development, the Gara Herastrau office 
property, a Class “A” office which extends over 12 
floors above ground and with three underground levels, 
offering total GBA of 16.9k sqm. The property is adjacent 
to our Green Court “A” and Green Court “B” office 
buildings and was constructed in 17 months.
Under Development
In addition to the projects delivered, in 2016 we progressed 
with the development/construction of four other buildings, 
two Class “A” offices in Bucharest and two high-quality, 
light-industrial facilities in Timisoara. In total, as of year-end 
2016 we had four buildings with c.78.4k sqm of GLA under 
construction, due for completion in 2017 and 2018.
Renovation and Repair Programme  
of Standing Properties
As part of our ongoing strategy to offer best-in-class 
real estate space to our business partners, the Company 
selected four properties for further improvement works.
As part of this renovation and repair programme we 
invested a total of €2.2 million in 2016, principally on the 
cluster of properties formed by BOB (office), BOC (office) 
and Upground Towers (residential), all situated in the 
same block, with works involving primarily the upgrade of 
common areas (indoor and outdoor) and the creation of  
more uniform surroundings. 
Furthermore, in 2016 we completed the necessary design/
preparatory activities for Globalworth Plaza (formerly Nusco 
Tower), which involved the renovation and modernisation 
of the lobby, conversion of the first floor terrace to a roof 
garden, and upgrade of the building’s façade. All works are 
expected to be completed in 2017.
2017 Investments
In 2017 Globalworth announced the €42.5 million acquisition 
of a modern warehouse facility, leased on a long-term basis 
to Automobile Dacia, Romania’s largest corporate. 
The facility benefits from being situated in a prime location, 
c.100km west of Bucharest near the Bucharest-Pitesti 
motorway, one of Romania’s principal warehouse and 
industrial corridors and 28km from Dacia’s main plant in 
Mioveni, Arges County.  
The property offers c.68.4k sqm of GLA, and is one of 
the Renault Group’s largest spare parts and accessories 
distribution centres worldwide.
Note: Individual investments in TAP and Globalworth Campus have been consolidated in the graph.
Evolution of Portfolio
“As Is” Valuation “Completion” Valuation
Like for Like increase  
in “ As Is” Valuation
5.0% 
In 2016 we invested €42.7 million in our portfolio, raising our total 
investment in real estate since the Company was established to 
c.€860 million. We delivered two Class “A” office properties in 
Bucharest,  further progressed with the development of four 
other high-quality buildings in Romania, and initiated a renovation 
and repair programme for selected assets. 
Q4 2016 “On Completion” 
Valuation
€1,092.4m
Amounts invested in 2016:
Developments – 
Delivered
Developments – 
Under Construction
Portfolio –
Improvements
Globalworth Tower
Gara Herastrau
GW Campus Phase A (two towers)
TAP – Valeo
TAP – Litens Automotive
Other 
c.€24.8m c.€13.8m c.€4.1m
35 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 34 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
INVESTMENT REVIEW 0
70
140
210
280
350
2016 2015 2014
3.7%
4.5%
91.8%
3.7%
6.1%
90.2%
4.2%
1.5%
94.3%
310,732 sqm
272,037 sqm
329,184 sqm
€ m
0
10
20
30
40
50
2016 2015 2014
5.6%
5.5%
88.9%
5.8%
8.2%
86.0%
7.9%
2.2%
89.9%
48.0m
46.3m
32.7m
€ m
0
6
12
18
24
30
≥2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
% of total
24.0%
11.5m
17.4%
8.3m
7.9%
3.8m
17.2%
8.3m
17.8%
8.5m
1.7%
0.8m
1.3%
0.6m
4.5%
2.1m
8.2%
3.9m
In leasing terms, 2016 was a record year for Globalworth 
with a total of c.98k sqm of commercial GLA takenup or 
extended. New leases signed (c.69.2k sqm GLA) during 
the year were more than double (c.145%) those of 2015, 
and were agreed at a WALL of c.7.0 years. In line with 
our strategy, these new leases were typically agreed with 
multinational corporate groups and financial institutions  
on long-term, euro-denominated, inflation-linked,  
triple net leases. 
Our Green Court Building "B" is now 100.0% leased 
(c.82.1% at year-end 2015), and significant progress in 
lettings was made in the Globalworth Tower and Gara 
Herastrau office properties (both completed in 2016), which 
respectively had year-end occupancy of c.83.2% (c.51.0% at 
year-end 2015) and c.68.9% (vacant at year-end 2015). 
In addition, at our TAP light-industrial complex we signed 
new leases with Valeo Lighting and Litens Automotive for a 
total of c.21.5k sqm, which will result in two facilities being 
developed in 2017, with the one for Valeo already delivered 
in Q1-17.
Furthermore, the Company has continued to improve the 
risk profile of its portfolio through the extension and/or 
expansion of leases with some of its prime tenants.  
New contracts in 2016 included signings with well-known 
national and multinational corporates such as Valeo (TAP 
c.13.5k sqm), Litens (TAP c.8.0k sqm), Huawei (Globalworth 
Tower c.6.8k sqm), Deutsche Bank (BOB c.6.2k sqm), ADP 
(Gara Herastrau c.6.1k sqm), Honeywell (BOC c.3.8k sqm), 
Patria Bank (Globalworth Plaza c.3.0k sqm), Hewlett Packard 
Enterprises (BOC c.2.5k sqm), Vodafone (Globalworth 
Tower c.2.0k sqm), Wipro (Globalworth Tower c.1.98k sqm), 
Ericsson (Green Court B c.1.9k sqm), Bunge (Globalworth 
Tower c.1.8k sqm), Tripsta and Saipem (Gara Herastrau 
c.2.2k sqm), Ferrero and Anritsu (Globalworth Tower  
c.1.8k sqm).
In TCI, the Company signed expansion contracts with 
existing tenants Cegeka, Hidroelectrica and EY for a 
total of c.3.1k sqm. In addition, Globalworth successfully 
renegotiated its leases with Honeywell (BOC), HP (BOC) and 
Cegeca (TCI) for a total of c.28.9k sqm.
The average occupancy rate of the Company’s standing 
commercial portfolio at 31 December 2016 was 83.1%, 
with tenancies signed with 90 national and multinational 
corporates from 19 countries, including some of the most 
recognisable corporates from their respective industries. 
The WALL remaining on the commercial lease space in the 
Company’s portfolio is approximately 6.3 years.
Over the past three years, Globalworth has successfully 
negotiated the take-up or extension of c.238k sqm of 
commercial GLA within its property portfolio, confirming the 
Company’s position as one of the most successful investors  
and developers in the Romanian real estate market. 
Selected Tenants of our Portfolio
Tenant Origin: % of Contracted Rent Selected Tenants of Commercial Portfolio
Multinational 86.0% Abbott Laboratories, Adecco, ADP , Anritsu Solutions, Bayer, Billa, BRD, Bunge, Carrefour, 
Cegeka, Clearanswer, Colgate-Palmolive, Continental, Credit Agricole Bank, Delhaize 
Group, Deutsche Telekom, EADS, Elster Rometrics, Ericsson, EY , Ferrero, GfK, Honeywell, 
Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Huawei, Intel, Litens Automotive, Mood Media, NBG Group, 
Nestle, Orange, Piraeus Bank, ProCredit Bank, Saipem, Sanofi, Schneider Electric, Skanska, 
Starbucks, Stefanini, Subway, Telekom, Tripsta, UniCredit, Valeo, Vodafone, Wipro, 
Worldclass
National 8.2% CITR, Creative Media, GlobalVision, NNDKP , NX Data, Patria Bank, RINF
State Owned Entities 5.8% Hidroelectrica, Ministry of European Funds
 Multi National
 
 S t at e O w ne d
LEASING REVIEW
Tenant Contribution by Origin –  
Commercial Contracted Rent
Tenant Contribution by Origin –  
Commercial Contracted Areas (sqm)
Commercial Contracted Rent Expiration Profile –  
(% of total)
 Multi National
 
 S t at e O w ne d
A RECORD YEAR IN LEASING 
37 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 36 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW 0
20
40
60
80
Q4 16 Q3 16 Q2 16 Q1 16 Q4 15 Q3 15 Q2 15 Q1 15
 € m
Revenue
N0I
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
 € m
 € m
7.0
7.5
8.0
8.5
9.0
Dec 16 Sep 16 Jun 16 Mar 16 Dec 15 Sep 15 Jun 15 Mar 15 Dec 14
OMV
EPRA NAV
EPRA NAV per share
NAV – Basic per share
NAV – Diluted per share
Dec 16
 € m
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Sep 16 Jun 16 Mar 16 Dec 15 Sep 15 Jun 15 Mar 15 Dec 14
Share Capital (€)
Other Reserves (€)
Retained Earnings (€)
Number of Ordinary Shares (m)
104
54 54 54 54
63 63
64 64
90.4
0.24
0.22
0.19
0.27
2.67 0.31
2.1 2.1
10.7
289 289
114
289 289
344 342 350 350
538
158 155 160 165
167
138 137
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Highlights
 ¡ Significant growth in revenues and NOI by 52.4%,  
and 53.5%, respectively, resulting mainly from the 
acquisition of four rented office buildings in Bucharest 
during 2015;
 ¡ Significant growth in normalised EBITDA by 62.4%, 
compared to 2015;
 ¡ EPRA Earnings for 2016 increased by €13.9 million 
compared to 2015, and IFRS Earnings per share for 
2016 amounted to 17.57 cents, as compared to 92.01 
cents in 2015;
 ¡ Overall uplift in the OMV of the assets portfolio by 
€46.4 million;
 ¡ EPRA NAV as at 31 December 2016 increased by 37.9% 
from 31 December 2015; and
 ¡ Significant level of cash and cash equivalents of  
€221.3 million at 31 December 2016.
Revenues and Profitability
 ¡ Total revenue reached €68.2 million in 2016 (52.4%  
or €23.5 million higher than in 2015), €18.4 million  
of which was derived from new investments made  
in 2015;
 ¡ NOI also increased significantly in 2016, following  
the increase in total revenues and reaching a total  
of €43.6 million (2015: €28.4 million), a significant 
improvement of 53.5% or €15.2 million over 2015 
figures, €14.1 million of which was generated by  
the new investments made in 2015;
 ¡ EBITDA
1
 amounted to €43.8 million (2015: €66.3 
million), however, the decrease from 2015 is due to the 
significant (unrealised) fair value gain on investment 
property recorded in 2015 (€49.4 million), as in 2016 
this gain was much lower (€6.7 million).
 ¡ Normalised EBITDA
2
 amounted to €36.3 million (2015: 
€22.4 million) and increased in line with the revenues 
and NOI increase in 2016 by a very significant 62.4%;
 ¡ EPRA earnings amounted to €8.6 million in 2016  
(2015: -€5.3 million), representing an increase of  
€13.9 million over 2015;
 ¡ Increased finance costs during 2016 by 49.2% resulted 
from the costs associated with the restructuring of  
the €100 million short-term Company level mezzanine 
facility using part of the proceeds of the Bond; and
 ¡ Earnings before tax of €12.2 million decreased as 
compared to 2015 (€62.5 million) mainly as a result of 
the fair value gain on investment property recorded in 
2015 (€49.4 million), as in 2016 this gain was much lower 
(€ 6.7 million).
1 Earnings before finance cost, tax, depreciation, amortisation  
of other non-current assets and purchase gain on acquisition  
of subsidiaries. 
2 EBITDA less: fair value gain on investment property  
(2016: € 6.7 million; 2015: €49.4 million), non-recurring income  
(2016: 3.4 million; 2015: nil); plus non-recurring administration  
and other expense items (2016: 2.6 million; 2015: 5.5 million).
2016 was an outstanding year for Globalworth in terms of 
growth in revenues and operational profitability
2016 Evolution of NOI and revenue – Cumulative data by quarter
2016 Evolution of NAV/share and OMV by quarter
2016 Evolution of Equity and shares in issue – Cumulative data by quarter
IMPRESSIvE FINANCIAL RESULTS
Cash and cash equivalents
€221.3m
Total revenue in 2016
€68.2m
Portfolio Valuation, Shareholders Equity,  
Total Assets and NAV
 ¡ The significant level of development activity in 2016 
(c.€44.7 million of investments on standing and under 
development properties together) influenced the 
value of our portfolio positively, leading to an 
(unrealised) gain in OMV of €46.4 million;
 ¡ Equity share capital increased to c.90.4 million shares 
following the issuance c.27.1 million new shares 
(including 1.07 million share to be issued in 2017) at an 
issue price of €8.00 per share in December 2016, as 
part of the successful €200 million equity raise;
 ¡ Total assets at 31 December 2016 exceeded €1.2 billion 
and increased by 20.7% from 31 December 2015; and
 ¡ EPRA NAV at 31 December 2016 (€783.8 million) 
increased by 37.9% from 31 December 2015  
(€568.3 million), however, EPRA NAV per share was 
impacted following the latest capital raise and as at 31 
December 2016 amounted to €8.57 per share, down by 
c.5.6% compared to 31 December 2015 (€9.08 per 
share).
Cash Flows
 ¡ Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 
(€221.3 million) increased by c.500% compared to  
31 December 2015 (€37.0 million), influenced mainly  
by the c.€200 million equity raise;
 ¡ Cash used on properties under development and  
the overall upgrade of our real estate portfolio of 
€51.7 million; and
 ¡ Cash generated from operating activities during  
the year amounted to €19.9 million, representing an 
outstanding increase of 559% as compared to 2015.
39 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 38 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Loan Covenants
In terms of applicable financial covenants observed, the most notable 
are the DSCR with values ranging from 100% to 125%, and the LTV 
ratio, with values ranging from 50% up to 83%. The Group’s policy is 
to maintain an LTV ratio of up to 60%. As at 31 December 2016 the 
LTV ratio amounts to 43.4% (31 December 2015: 43.9%).
Loan Maturity
At 31 December 2016, the weighted average remaining duration of 
the Group’s debt is 4.2 years (2015: 5 years).
Loan Denomination Currency and Interest Rate Risk
Our long-term loan facilities are almost entirely Euro-denominated 
and either bear interest based on three-months Euribor plus a margin 
or bear a fixed interest rate. This ensures a natural hedging linked to 
the Euro, original currency denomination of the most significant part 
of our liquid assets (cash and cash equivalents and rental receivables) 
and reporting currency for the fair market value of our investment 
property. This is depicted by the low level of overall net foreign 
exchange loss reported for the year 2016.
The weighted average cost of servicing debt as at 31 December 2016 
amounted to 5.25% compared to 6.18% at 31 December 2015. The 
decrease is due to the repayment of the short-term Corporate Loan 
facility and other financing granted to the Group’s subsidiaries using 
the proceeds of the Bond.
The Group’s policy is to borrow funds at a competitive cost and to 
limit its exposure to upward interest rate fluctuations through 
employing appropriate hedging instruments on new long-term loans 
secured. Examples are the interest rate cap agreements concluded 
with BCR (to cover 50% of the outstanding facilities) as part of the  
TCI and TAP financings.
FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY REVIEW
Financing Achievements During 2016
2016 was a record year in terms of financing achievements as we 
managed to successfully secure a total of c.€426.1 million debt 
(including the refinancing of existing loan facilities) and equity, 
leading to a significant decrease in the weighted average interest rate  
on debt financing and the participation of Growthpoint Properties 
Limited ('GRT') into our Group.
The most significant achievements in this area during 2016 were  
as follows: 
Debt Financing/Refinancing:
 ¡ In March 2016 the Group signed a c.€29.1 million long-term debt 
facility agreement with Banca Comerciala Romana ('BCR') in 
Romania (Erste Bank Group) in order to refinance the existing 
secured loan facilities related to the TAP light-industrial park in 
Timisoara, and to fund the development of an extension to this 
property. These facilities are secured on the TAP property and 
mature in 2031 (refinancing loan), 2032 (development loan) and 
2018 (VAT loan). The first drawdown under the development and 
VAT loans occurred in December 2016;
 ¡ At the end of May 2016 the Group secured a €180 million three-
year bond (the 'Bond'). The Bond was provided by Matisse 
Financing B.V. (an orphan SPV) which issued €180 million of senior 
secured Notes to institutional investors. The proceeds of such 
issuance was on-lent to the Group in order to refinance the  
€100 million short-term corporate level facility obtained in 2015 
from funds managed by York Capital and Oak Hill and three 
secured debt facilities at the level of three of its Romanian 
subsidiaries. The Bond is secured, among others, on the 
properties of four Romanian subsidiaries as well as the shares  
of their holding companies. Drawdown under the Bond was 
concluded in June 2016;
 ¡ In May 2016 the Group signed a c.€10.3 million long-term debt 
facility agreement with Garanti Bank in Romania in order to 
refinance equity and to fund the remaining development costs  
of the Gara Herastrau office building. This facility is secured on  
the land and completed building and matures in the first quarter  
of 2026. In December 2016, the above mentioned facility was 
supplemented with an additional €2.2 million;
 ¡ During August 2016 the Group signed and drew down a  
c.€1.5 million top-up of the medium-term loan facility with  
Libra Internet Bank in Romania, secured on the Luterana and 
Herastrau One land plots; and
 ¡ In September 2016 the Group signed and utilised a €3 million 
top-up of the long-term facility from BCR signed in September 2014, 
secured on the TCI property.
The total debt portfolio of the Group ranges between short-and-
medium to long-term debt, denominated mostly in EUR, with a small 
portion denominated in Romanian Leu ('RON'). These are secured 
with real estate mortgages, pledges on shares, receivables and loan 
subordination agreements in favour of the financing parties.
In terms of applicable financial covenants observed, the most notable 
are the Debt Service Cover Ratio ('DSCR'), with values ranging from 
100% to 125%, and the LTV ratio, with values ranging from 50% up to 
83% (versus the significantly lower overall LTV of the Group at  
31 December 2016 of 43.4%), with no actual deviations occurring 
during the period from the aforementioned values.
Equity Raising:
In December 2016 we successfully raised €200 million, diversifying  
our equity investor base following the participation of GRT into our 
Group.
Servicing of Debt During 2016
In 2016 we have repaid in total c.€12.3 million loan capital (excluding 
the refinancing of existing facilities), and c.€24.8 million of accrued 
interest on the Group’s drawn debt facilities.
Liquidity
The Group seeks to maintain, at all times, sufficient liquidity to enable it 
to finance its ongoing, planned property investments and completion of 
properties under development, while maintaining flexibility to capture 
quickly attractive new investment opportunities.
During 2016 a total of c.€200 million additional equity and c.€31.1 million 
additional debt financing (excluding c.€195 million refinancing of existing 
facilities) was secured, leading to a significant increase in available cash 
resources at year end.
Moreover, during the year the Group maintained a healthy balance  
of available cash and cash equivalents ranging from c.€31 million to  
c.€38 million at each quarter end, except at 31 December 2016 when 
available cash and cash equivalents amounted to c.€221.3 million as a result 
of the equity raise which was completed at the end of December 2016. 
Undrawn loan facilities at 31 December 2016 amounted to c.€2.5 million.
Loan Structure as at 31 December 2016
Short-term and long-term debt structure mix
The Group’s credit facilities concluded with local banks in Romania  
are secured with real estate mortgages, pledges on shares, 
receivables and loan subordination agreements in favor of the 
financing banks. Further details on the Group’s debt financing 
facilities are provided in note 15 of the consolidated financial 
statements. The Bond is secured, among others, with mortgages  
on the properties of four Romanian subsidiaries as well as pledges  
on the shares of their respective holding companies.
Loan Structure
  Short Term
  Long Term
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
2015
2016
ROBUST LIQUIDITY AND 
CAPITAL BASE
0
50.0
100.0
150.0
200.0
€ m
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022-2035
  Dec 2016
Maturity by year of the principal balance outstanding  
at 31 December 2016.
UniCredit HQ
41 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 40 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW SUPPORTING
HOSPICE CASA SPERANTEI
HOSPICE Casa Sperantei (member of the 
Hospices of Hope Network) is the largest non-
profit organisation in Romania, established 1992, 
providing free specialist palliative care services.
Since its inception, more than 20,000 patients and 
their families have received support at HOSPICE 
and found out that they are not alone in their battle. 
Its work means that people no longer have to face 
their illness without support.
Palliative care aims to improve the quality of life 
of patients and their families when faced with 
problems of an incurable illness, through medical 
care for patients and social support, psycho-
emotional and spiritual counselling for patients and 
their families.
www.hospice.ro
Total investment
€5.7 m
Consultations in the 
outpatient clinic/year
8,000
Admissions/year
700
Day centre  
attendances/year
5,000
Patients cared  
for/year
2,000
Patients cared for/year
1 1,000
RESPECTING OUR SOCIAL AND 
ENvIRONMENTAL OBJECTIvES
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
At Globalworth we believe that it is our duty to be aware 
of, and manage responsibly, the social, environmental 
and economic impacts of the way in which we conduct 
our business and to make a positive contribution to the 
community in which we live and work. 
Globalworth’s key objective is to create value for its 
shareholders by acting consistently in an ethical and 
socially responsible manner. We aim to do so, by building 
a sustainable business and managing our financial goals 
and shareholder returns while respecting our social and 
environmental objectives.
We are very pleased that in 2016 we have been able to 
continue to promote and foster a sustainable and 
ecologically-responsible approach as well as supporting  
a number of social and charitable initiatives.
SOCIAL FOCUS
Positively impacting and improving the future prospects of 
our local community, by the way we approach our business 
is a key driver for Globalworth.
The Globalworth family, and its Founder in particular, have, 
directly or indirectly, supported numerous local 
communities, charities and hospitals in Romania over the 
past 10 years. We have predominantly focused on those in 
need, with particular attention given to young children, 
orphanages, underprivileged families, single mothers and 
those in need of palliative care at the initiative of Hospices 
of Hope.
Our intention is for every year to be able to give more to 
those in need and 2016 was no exception. We are very 
proud that our Founder, the companies under his control 
and Globalworth (since its inception) have donated more 
than €1.5m in charitable contributions since 2011. In 
addition, many of our people have been contributing to 
several charities in Romania by diverting part of their State 
income tax deductions to charitable service. 
Our involvement in causes goes over and beyond financial 
contributions, as we actively invest our personal time and 
effort to support those who need it the most. Being able to 
be actively involved and showing that they are not alone in 
their battles is equally important for us as the financial 
contribution we are committed of making. With this in mind 
we organised a number of events and visited selected 
charities throughout the year.
In 2016, these included distributing thousands of gifts to 
children between the ages of 1 and 18 over the Christmas 
period, the organisation of our annual 2016 Children’s 
events and the Globalworth Camp Day at Adunatii 
Copaceni (Hospice of Hope). In addition we gave school 
scholarships for children, provided space in one of our 
properties to host a charity shop and hosted a number of 
local and international university gatherings at our 
development sites as well as our standing properties.
Overview Selected Charities / Donations
 ¡ Education/Social 
Assistance and  
Child Care
 ¡ Health-related  
(Hospitals, Hospices etc)
 ¡ Health-related 
operations for various 
individual cases
 ¡ Foundation Hospice  
“Casa Sperantei” Bucharest
 ¡ "Make a Wish" Foundation
 ¡ Foundation for the  
Hearing Impairement  
(Asociatia Procultura Surzilor)
 ¡ Foundation Together We are 
Overcoming Autism
 ¡ Association for child and family 
protection “Ana and the Children”
 ¡ Association for equal 
opportunities (“Un strop  
de fericire”)
 ¡ Special School No9 for children 
(Scoala Gimnaziala Speciala nr. 9)
 ¡ “Sf Dimitrie” Foundation
 ¡ Metropolis Foundation  
for children
Globalworth in action.
Globalworth & Hospice -  
Casa Sperantei Foundation
 ¡ Globalworth is hosting a Charity Shop in our Upground 
Complex with a share of the proceeds going directly to  
the hospice.
 ¡ The Company was the principal sponsor for two 
fundraising events organised by the hospice in June and 
November 2016.
 ¡ Globalworth was honored to receive the HOSPICE 
Champion Award for its support of the foundation.
43 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 42 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Educational programmes
In 2015, the main beneficiaries of the educational programmes have 
been doctors, nurses and also the patients and their families.
276
111 Doctors received the 
palliative care certificate, 
165 Doctors began the 
certification courses
81
professionals from all  
over the country, involved 
in teaching palliative care in 
nursing schools, attended 
an intensive palliative  
care course
488
attendances by nurses to 
introductory and advanced 
palliative care courses
45
Volunteer coordinators 
trained within the volunteer 
management in palliative 
care services programme
35
doctors participated in the 
online courses of HOSPICE
522
Medical/Healthcare 
students and medical post 
secondary school students 
attended palliative care 
sessions taught by  
HOSPICE professionals
75
professionals from Romania 
and many countries accross 
Europe participated in 
the training courses for 
professionals in palliative care
45
nurses became trainers
17,500
Patients
Social  
services
16,507
Interventions
Day centre activities
2,909
Attendances
Counselling in  
partner hospitals
2,054
Patients
Going about our business in a way 
that positively impacts and 
improves the outlook for our local 
community is a key driver of 
Globalworth
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
Hospice achievements
3,498
Children and adults diagnosed with incurable 
illnesses who received free-of-charge HOSPICE 
services in 2015.
Physiotherapy treatment
2,916
Sessions
Palliative care at home
1 7,531
Visits
HOSPICE inpatient  
unit admission
849
Admissions
Consultations in the 
outpatient clinic
4,867
Consultations
Psycho-emotional 
counselling
1,572
Sessions
Spiritual  
counselling
1,277
Sessions
The Hospice Centre at Adunatii-Copaceni
The therapy centre for children with rare or life-limiting illnesses  
and their families.
Located 15km from Bucharest, in Adunatii Copaceni, Hospice is 
developing a Centre for children affected by rare and life-limiting 
illnesses and their families.
The land and buildings to be used for development of the Centre, 
were donated by the Florescu family to Hospice in 2012. 
The cost of the restoration work is estimated at €1.5m and once 
completed the Centre will be used for medical respite care, 
therapeutic sessions for families as well as training courses in 
pediatric palliative care for medical professionals.
During the last few years, Hospice Casa Sperantei has organised 
residential summer trips at Adunatii Copaceni for children and 
teenagers suffering from life-limiting illnesses, recent bereavement or 
needing respite. Hospice is renovating several buildings at Adunatii 
Copaceni to create clinical areas, family accommodation and 
recreational areas.
The Hospice Centre will include a day centre (educational-therapeutic 
activities for children), a respite centre for palliative care, shelter for 
families in crisis situations and an educational centre (for parents and 
palliative care specialists).
Globalworth Camp Day at 
Adunatii Copaceni:
In June 2016, Globalworth organised the “Globalworth 
Camp Day” at Adunatii-Copaceni. For this full day event 
we invited our friends and partners to work with us to 
support the hospice’s initiative at the Adunatii-Copaceni 
Social and Medical Center.
Over 100 volunteers responded to our call and we 
would like to thank every single one of them for their 
contribution to the cause.
In addition, we invited more than 300 children from 
eight foundations to spend a day of fun with us 
outdoors, playing, creating and learning. We were very 
pleased to be able to welcome children from Hospice 
– Casa Sperantei, as well as the Make-A-Wish, Ana and 
the Children, Metropolis, Together we are Overcoming 
Autism, Hearing Impaired, Sf. Dimitrie and A drop of 
Happiness foundations.
The volunteers contributed by painting structures on 
the premises, assembling kitchens and other indoor 
furniture to be used by residents in the future, planting, 
landscaping, and preparing and serving lunch for our 
guests.
The most important part of the day, however, was 
spending time with the children and playing games, as 
well as participating in painting and art workshops, 
first-aid training seminars and sports activities. We are 
very pleased that our young friends also had the 
opportunity to spend time and interact with well-
known athletes and actors from Romania, who were 
kind enough to share their experiences with them.
At Globalworth we are committed to continue to 
actively support Hospice - Casa Sperantei and the 
Adunatii-Copaceni initiative, and we hope to be able to 
organise other Camp Days in the future.
Current investment
€5.7 m
Total estimated investment
€1.5m
 ¡ The land was donated to HOSPICE Casa Speranei by the  
Florescu family, in 2012
 ¡ The HOSPICE Centre will include a day centre (educational-
therapeutic activities for children), a respite centre for palliative 
care (12 beds), a shelter for families in crisis situations (5 
apartments) and an educational centre (for parents and palliative 
care specialists).
45 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 44 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW globalworth
TM
 ¡ Investment in real estate which meets the 
requirements of tenants, the wider community 
and our shareholders. Focus on investments 
that either have received green accreditation 
or have the potential to receive it in the future.
 ¡ Focus on investments that either have received 
green accreditation or have the potential to 
receive in the future.
 ¡ Developments are designed to be energy 
efficient and sustainable aiming to achieve 
LEED Gold or BREEAM Very Good or higher 
accreditations
 ¡ Our goal is to create long term sustainable 
value, and we aim to do so by creating an 
environment in which tenants want to work in, 
and the overall community benefits from.
 ¡ Active management of our properties to 
ensure that they operate according to their 
specifications.
 ¡ We actively work together with our tenants, 
partners and the community to identify ways to 
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our 
properties.
 ¡ Constantly improving the workspace and the 
environmental footprint of our properties aims 
at maintaining the marketability of our 
properties
GIVE BACK TO COMMUNITY, PARTNERS AND SHAREHOLDERS
ACTIvE MANAGEMENT
EXPLORE AND IMPLEMENT ALTERNATIVES TO IMPROVE THE 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF PROPERTIES
INvESTMENT IN 
“GREEN” CERTIFIED 
REAL ESTATE 
INvESTMENT IN NON-
GREEN CERTIFIED REAL 
ESTATE WITH 
ENvIRONMENTALLY 
FRIENDLY POTENTIAL
How we achieve an environmental-friendly portfolio
 ¡ Standing properties
 ¡ Development
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
Creating an environment in which people want to work 
and be associated with is a key objective for Globalworth, 
and for us there is no better way to achieve this than by 
building a “greener” and more environmentally-friendly 
portfolio. 
Investment in energy efficient properties allows us to give 
back to local communities, our investors, our tenants, our 
partners and the people who work in or live nearby our 
buildings:
 ¡ local communities benefit from reduced carbon 
emissions generated from the use of the property;
 ¡ our tenants benefit from lower energy costs, positively 
impacting the profitability of their operations;
 ¡ those working in our buildings benefit from improved 
conditions thanks to temperature control and better 
flow and quality of air (which can also lead to improved 
productivity);
 ¡ our partners benefit by assisting us to develop, 
maintain and operate a green portfolio according to 
the respective specifications of each property; and
 ¡ our investors benefit through the creation of long term 
sustainable value in the portfolio.
In 2016, our efforts were dedicated to designing and 
building new developments with the aim of achieving 
LEED Gold, BREEAM Very Good, or higher accreditations 
and to ongoing investment in our properties to ensure 
further improvement in our sustainability performance.
We are pleased to report that over the course of the year 
we received green accreditation for two new properties. 
Green Court "B", which was acquired by the Company in 
2015, received LEED Gold accreditation in February 2016, 
while the Gara Herastrau office property, developed by 
Globalworth and completed in June 2016, received 
BREEAM Excellent accreditation in November. 
In addition, our flagship Globalworth Tower, which was 
developed by the Company and completed in February 
2016, was awarded a LEED Platinum rating in 2017. It is the 
first building in Romania and the broader SEE region to 
have received the highest available green accreditation, 
an achievement of which we are particularly proud.
The majority of the standing office properties in our 
portfolio are now green accredited, with eight currently 
holding green accreditation of BREEAM Excellent/LEED 
Gold or higher. We are exploring the potential for similar 
accreditation for other properties in our portfolio, both 
standing and development projects.
ENvIRONMENTAL FOCUS
Existing Properties Developments / New Investments
 ¡ Our portfolio includes 8 Class A 
office properties with LEED Gold 
or BREEAM Very Good (or 
higher) certifications
 ¡ We are in the process of 
certifying additional properties 
owned by Globalworth
 ¡ Green Court B was awarded 
LEED Gold in 2016
 ¡ Gara Herastrau was awarded 
BREEAM Excellent in 2016
 ¡ Globalworth Tower was awarded 
LEED Platinum in 2017
 ¡ Globalworth is designing its 
development projects to be energy 
efficient and sustainable, aiming to 
achieve LEED Gold or BREEAM Very 
Good or higher accreditations
 ¡ When considering new investments, 
Globalworth is looking, insofar as is 
possible, for green buildings or 
properties which have the potential to 
achieve a green classification
47 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 46 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Our awards
Building a sustainable portfolio is 
also a commitment to our partners 
and our shareholders to create 
value for the long term.
BOC
STANDING
BOB
STANDING
Green Court “A”
STANDING
HAS FULFILLED THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE FOLLOWING LEVEL OF CERTIFICATION ESTABLISHED BY THE U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL 
IN THE LEED GREEN BUILDING RATING SYSTEM TM AND VERIFIED BY THE GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE.
S. RICHARD FEDRIZZI, PRESIDENT & CEO
U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL
MAHESH RAMANUJAM, PRESIDENT 
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE
GREEN COURT BUCHAREST
BUILDING A
Bucuresti, Romania
LEED FOR CORE & SHELL
March 2015
Green Court “B”
STANDING
S. RICHARD FEDRIZZI, CEO & FOUNDING CHAIRMAN
U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL
MAHESH RAMANUJAM, PRESIDENT
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE
GREEN COURT BUCHAREST II
Bucharest, Romania
LEED FOR CORE & SHELL
February 2016
Unicredit HQ
STANDING
City Offices
STANDING
HAS FULFILLED THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE FOLLOWING LEVEL OF CERTIFICATION ESTABLISHED BY THE U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL 
IN THE LEED GREEN BUILDING RATING SYSTEM TM AND VERIFIED BY THE GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE.
S. RICHARD FEDRIZZI, PRESIDENT & CEO
U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL
MAHESH RAMANUJAM, PRESIDENT 
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATION INSTITUTE
CITY OFFICES
Bucharest, Romania
LEED FOR CORE & SHELL
October 2015
Globalworth Campus
DEVELOPMENT
Globalworth Plaza
STANDING
TCI
STANDING
Gara Herastrau
STANDING
Very Good / Excellent
Under Certification
Very Good / Excellent
Under Certification
Very Good / Excellent
Under Certification
Globalworth Tower
STANDING
GLOBALWORTH TOWER
Bucharest, Romania
LEED 2009
CORE AND SHELL DEVELOPMENT
January 2017
Upground Towers
STANDING
Very Good / Excellent
Under Certification
(LEED)
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 48 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Less More Probability
Low High Impact
Internal control
Exposure
11
9
8
10
7 6
4
12
13
3
2
1
5
RISK REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than to 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as 
such, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a conservative risk philosophy as it only accepts risks 
associated with the nature of its business activities. 
The Group’s approach to internal control and for monitoring and 
reviewing its effectiveness is set out within the Audit Committee 
Report, see pages 109 and 110 of the Annual Report. 
Since admission to AIM the Group has made suitable appointments in 
the area of financial management and supervision over internal 
control in order to strengthen the internal controls over financial 
reporting and other significant processes of the Group. Despite the 
existence of an effective internal control system, these risks can only 
be managed as they cannot be eliminated completely.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the 
Company’s system of internal control and for maintaining and 
reviewing its effectiveness.
Indexation of Principal Risks
The diagram below portrays our current principal risks assessment in 
terms of their individual impact on the Group’s future results and the 
probability of occurrence. The probability of risk occurrence is an 
estimate, since the past data on frequencies is not readily available. 
After all, probability does not imply certainty.
The probability of risk occurrence is, by nature, difficult to estimate. 
Likewise, the impact of the risk, in isolation, is estimated based on the 
management’s past experience in the real estate industry. Further, 
both the above factors can change in magnitude depending on the 
adequacy of risk avoidance and prevention measures taken and due 
to changes in the external business environment. Hence the Board 
intends to continue the process of quarterly examination and 
evaluation of identified significant risks faced by the Group, as well  
as the controls in place to manage or mitigate those risks.
Risk oversight
Identify
The Board and the Audit Committee identify risks with input 
from the key management of the Group. The Group follows an 
objectives-based risk identification strategy to identify key principal 
risks for each reporting period. Any event or factor that may 
endanger the achievement of the short and long-term goals partly 
or completely is identified as a risk.
Evaluate
Once risks have been identified, they are assessed as to their 
potential severity of impact on the Group’s performance (a negative 
impact on financial results) and to the probability of occurrence, that 
is risk indexation. 
Respond
Once risks have been identified and evaluated, one or a 
combination of the following techniques are used to manage each 
particular risk: 
 ¡ avoid (eliminate, withdraw from, or not become involved);
 ¡ control (optimise – mitigate);
 ¡ sharing (outsource or insure); and
 ¡ retention (accept and budget). 
The selection of a particular response strategy depends upon the 
magnitude of the impact, probability of occurrence, existing internal 
and external controls. 
Monitor
The initial risk management strategy may not address all issues 
as expected. Therefore, the Board will reassess, at each quarterly 
meeting, whether the previously selected controls are still 
applicable and effective, and the possible risk level changes in the 
business environment. 
Report
The Group presents the principal risks profile on pages 51-54 of the 
Annual Report.
51 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 50 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
ORGANISATION
CULTURE, POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
BOARD
OVERSIGHT
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
Identify
Report
Evaluate
Respond
Monitor
RISK 
IDENTIFICATION 
& MANAGEMENT 
PROCESS Risk Impact Mitigation Change from  
prior year
6 valuation 
of Portfolio

Any error or negative trend 
in valuations of properties 
would significantly impact 
the results (NAV and EPS) 
of the Group.
The Group involves reputable third-party valuation specialists to 
measure the fair value of the investment property portfolio at least 
twice a year. Management closely monitors the valuation approach for 
each class of investment property and estimates and assumptions 
about key inputs used in the valuation.
Periodically, the Group also obtains second valuations from other 
reputable and experienced third-party valuations specialists, other than 
those used for financial reporting purposes, as an additional safety 
measure in this area.
The Group is also striving to maximise property values by employing an 
effective development strategy and/or a property management and 
leasing strategy.

7 Inability to Lease 
Space 

Potential loss of revenues 
leading to inability to 
maximise the EPS and FFO 
available for distribution of 
dividends to shareholders.
The Group has proven ability to attract tenants to its properties  
even before the inauguration of the construction works for properties 
under development.
The Group maintains a low level of vacant space for its completed 
properties (which decreased further during 2016, a record year in terms 
of leasing), through the effective management of vacant space by its 
very experienced marketing and leasing team based in Romania.  
In addition, the leasing team cooperates closely with leading estate 
agents in the local market to tap all emerging opportunities.

8 Inability to 
Complete 
Projects Under 
Development on 
Time
Inability to deliver to 
tenants the pre-leased 
office space by the agreed 
dates due to delays caused 
by contractors or their 
possible default, leading to 
potential costs overruns, 
penalties and loss of 
revenues.
Risks for delay in completion of properties under development are 
passed on to the main contractors with whom fixed-cost turnkey 
contracts are signed and from which good execution guarantees are 
received. A portion of amounts payable to them, ranging from 5%  
to 15% of contracted value, are retained from the contractor’s monthly 
certified works until after the successful completion of the construction 
works.
Only experienced, reputable and financially sound contractors are 
selected for the construction of properties under development, which are 
supervised on a daily basis by the project management team in Romania.
Further, significant penalties are stipulated in the related construction 
contracts to minimise any loss due to the delayed completion of the 
development works.

Financial, Financing & Liquidity Risks
9 Lack of Available 
Financing 

This would negatively 
affect the Group’s ability to 
execute, to the full extent, 
its investment plan.
The Group’s management team hold frequent meetings with current 
and potential equity investors as well as continuous discussions with 
leading global and Romanian financing institutions in connection with 
its financing requirements.
Since admission, the Group has raised over €1.1bn in equity and debt 
(including new loan facilities and rolled-over loan facilities on the 
acquisition of subsidiaries) to meet its financing requirements.

10 Breach of Loan 
Covenants 

May negatively affect the 
Group’s relationship with 
financing banks, may have 
going concern implications, 
and affect, negatively, its 
ability to raise further debt 
financing at competitive 
interest rates.
The Group monitors on a regular basis its compliance with loan 
covenants and has increased its resources on monitoring in the area of 
loan contractual terms (including covenants) compliance.

RISK REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 
CONTINUED
The following key is used in the table below to highlight the changes in risk exposures during the year ended 31 December 2016: 

 Risk exposure has increased in the current year

 Risk exposure has reduced in the current year

 No significant change in risk exposure since prior year 
In addition, the risks marked with  have been considered relevant for the Viability Statement analysis.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change from  
prior year
Business Risks
1 Exposure to  
the Economic 
Environment in 
Romania
A negative trend in the 
economic activity in 
Romania may affect the 
Group’s tenants and 
potential new tenants and 
in turn can exert downward 
pressure on rent rates.
A significant number of the Group’s tenants are subsidiaries of 
multinational groups with either insignificant exposure to developments 
in the Romanian economy and/or very sound financial standing. The 
Group also ensures that long-term leases are signed with new tenants 
and that current leases are renewed prior to their expiry for a longer term 
and at index-linked rental rates, so as to minimise the risk of possible 
negative variations in rent rates over the short and medium term.

2 Changes in the 
Political or 
Regulatory 
Framework in 
Romania or the 
European Union
The Group was set up to 
carry out investments in the 
Central and South-Eastern 
Europe region, focusing 
first on property 
investments in Romania.  
It is therefore exposed to 
political and regulatory 
framework changes that 
may occur in this region.
Even though the Group is currently focusing on investments in Romania 
(independent EU bodies place it among the most rapidly growing 
economies in Central and South-Eastern Europe), the Group is 
considering diversifying its property portfolio with investments in other 
countries in the Central and South-Eastern Europe region. 
The Group’s Executives frequently monitor political or regulatory 
developments in the Romanian market through their own observation 
and also by frequent reviews of available third-party reports on the 
developments in Romania. In cases when changes in regulations occur, 
appropriate action is taken so as to maintain compliance with 
applicable regulations in Romania.

Property Risks
3 Acquisition of 
Properties
Inability to execute the 
Group’s plan of investing  
in high-quality assets  
would affect the Group’s 
objectives of maximisation 
in NAV and EPS.
The Group’s management team have a proven track record of acquiring 
high quality assets, most of them at a discount to their fair market 
values. The team remains in close contact with leading European real 
estate agents with presence in Romania so as to get spontaneous 
access to potential sellers. The team takes the lead in negotiations with 
sellers of properties and puts in place safeguards (involvement of legal, 
financial, tax and technical third-party reputable and experienced due 
diligence advisers) and ensures the related agreements are concluded 
within a short period of time. 

4 Counterparty 
Credit Risk 

Loss of income may result 
from the possible default  
of tenants.
The vast majority of tenants are reputable, blue-chip multinational and 
local groups of very good to excellent credit standing. Guarantee cash 
deposits or bank guarantee letters are received from all tenants for the 
credit period agreed in lease agreements.

5 Changes in 
Interest Rates 

Additional financing costs 
may be incurred as a result 
of interest rate increases.
The Group monitors on a regular basis the cost of its debt financing and 
considers the use of suitable hedging instruments (such as variable-
fixed rate swaps, interest caps) to minimise the potential increase of the 
cost of debt above acceptable levels. As of 31 December 2016, the 
Group’s weighted average debt financing costs amounted to 5.25%, 
representing a significant decrease as compared to 31 December 
2015 (6.18%) as a result of the refinancing of a significant portion of the 
Group’s debt during 2016. The Group explores on a continuous basis 
new refinancing options so as to maintain its average debt financing 
costs at competitive levels.

53 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 52 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW RISK REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 
CONTINUED
Financial, Financing & Liquidity Risks continued
Risk Impact Mitigation
Change from  
prior year
11 Foreign 
Exchange Risk
Significant fluctuations, 
especially in the Romanian 
Leu to Euro exchange rate  
in the direction of the 
depreciation of the Romanian 
Leu against the Euro, may 
lead to significant realised 
foreign exchange losses.
The Group’s exposure to negative realised foreign exchange 
fluctuations is limited to cases where the date invoices are issued to 
tenants or received from contractors and suppliers and the date of their 
settlement differ significantly. The limited exposure to foreign exchange 
fluctuations is due to the fact that the pricing in all major contracts 
entered into (with tenants and contractors/suppliers) is agreed in Euro, 
hence providing for a natural cash flow hedge to a large extent.
The Group actively monitors, on a daily basis, the fluctuations in 
Romanian Leu to Euro exchange rate and strives to minimise the period 
between the issuance and settlement of invoices to tenants and by its 
contractors/suppliers and the potential related, realised foreign 
exchange losses that may result.
It also enters frequently into transactions with financial institutions for 
the purchase or sale of Romanian Leu at favourable exchange rates 
against the Euro, compared to the market average, due to the relatively 
high value of such transactions as a result of a batch settlement process 
followed for invoices received from contractors/suppliers.

Regulatory Risks
12 Change in Fiscal 
and Tax 
Regulations
Adverse changes in 
favourable taxation 
provisions in the 
jurisdictions the Group’s 
legal entities operate in 
would negatively affect  
its net results.
The Group, through engaging professional tax advisers on a regular 
basis in all the jurisdictions where its legal entities operate, monitors 
very closely the upcoming changes in taxation legislation and ensures 
that all steps are taken for compliance and optimisation of the tax 
efficiency of its structure over time.
Through regular tax compliance monitoring and conservative policies in 
this area the Group ensures that the risks associated with potential 
additional, unexpected tax assessments is minimised.
Moreover, the Group is closely monitoring its compliance with changes 
in EU member states legislation (mainly for Romania and Cyprus) in 
relation to OECD/BEPS recommendations.

13 Compliance with 
Fire, Structural 
or Other Health 
and Safety 
Regulations
Non-compliance with related 
regulations in Romania may 
affect our reputation with 
existing and potential new 
tenants. It may also lead to 
loss of right to operate our 
properties, and may also lead 
to severe legal implications 
for the Romanian subsidiaries’ 
Directors.
The Group has a specialised department dealing on a daily basis with 
matters related to compliance with such regulations in Romania, where 
the Group’s properties are located. Apart from in-house expertise, the 
Group also engages external consultants, when required, on specialised 
matters related to its compliance with these regulations.
Appropriate actions are taken as soon as a potential threat for non-
compliance with such regulations is identified.

In accordance with provision C2:2 of the 2014 revision of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has considered the 
Company’s viability over the next three years. As a result of the 
long-term nature of the Group’s commitments from its tenants for its 
properties in Romania, as well as the long-term nature of the Group’s 
assets (properties), the Board is confident over the long-term viability 
of the Group’s business; however, it is difficult to assess the long-
terms trends in the real estate market in Romania, the long-term 
availability of funds in the European and global capital markets, and 
the European Central Bank’s long-term policies over the provision of 
liquidity to banks operating in the Eurozone, the largest of which have 
subsidiaries in Romania. In addition, it is difficult to assess the 
regulatory, tax and political environment in which the Group operates 
on a basis longer than a three-year period. Therefore, the Board 
considered that a three-year period is an appropriate period to 
perform its viability analysis, as also supported by the following 
factors:
 ¡ three years is the period over which the Group performs its cash 
flow projections and business plans due to the Group’s dynamic 
growth plan. It would be very difficult to extend the Group’s 
strategic planning period beyond a three-year period and still 
maintain its accuracy to an acceptable level; 
 ¡ part of the Group’s financing facilities mature within the next three 
years; and
 ¡ three years is the average period over which the Group carries out 
its major development projects, starting from the date of purchase 
of land to the completion of the properties. 
In 2016, the viability assessment process comprised the following 
key steps: 
1. A review and assessment by the Audit Committee of the principal 
risks facing the Company. An outline of the identified principal 
risks, including changes in the assessed risk level from the prior 
year, is presented on pages 50-54. 
2. Identification of those principal risks that are more likely to have a 
potential impact on the Company’s viability over the next 
three-year period, namely:
 ¡ counterparty credit risk;
 ¡ changes in interest rates;
 ¡ valuation of portfolio;
 ¡ inability to lease space;
 ¡ lack of available financing; and
 ¡ breach of loan covenants.
3. Analysis of the potential quantitative impact of the principal risks 
identified under step 2 above, should these occur in isolation or 
under certain possible combinations. It should be emphasised 
that, based on the assessment performed, a number of the 
above-mentioned risks may have direct and indirect impact on the 
Group’s property portfolio values and/or NAV, but have been 
assessed as having very low probability of affecting the Group’s 
viability over the next three years.
4. Assessment of the possible, available strategies to minimise the 
potential impact of these principal risks over the next three years. 
Such mitigation strategies include the possibility to raise 
additional equity capital, or refinance/reschedule existing debt 
facilities, or to dispose of properties.
5. Following the completion of the viability assessment, this has 
been presented and approved by the Board.
Based on the assessment performed, the Board concluded that it  
has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due up  
to March 2020. 
It should be noted that this assessment is based on the following 
assumptions which are not within the Company’s control: 
 ¡ no unanticipated changes in laws and regulations affecting the 
Company, including the value of its investments, operating 
performance and cash flows; and 
 ¡ continued stability and availability of sufficient capital and market 
liquidity so as to enable the raising of additional equity, as well as 
the refinancing/rescheduling of the Group’s debt facilities which 
mature within the next three years. 
VIABILITY STATEMENT
55 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 54 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Geoff Miller spent over 20 years in research 
and fund management in the UK, specialising 
in the finance sector, before moving offshore, 
firstly to Moscow and then to Singapore 
before becoming a Guernsey resident in 
2011. He was formerly a number one rated UK 
mid and small cap financials analyst covering 
investment banks, asset managers, insurance 
vehicles, investment companies and real 
estate companies.
Geoff is Chief Executive Officer and 
Co-Founder of Afaafa, a business which 
provides investment and consultancy services 
to early stage companies focused in the 
financials and technology sectors. He is also a 
Director for a number of private companies.
The Founder of Globalworth, Ioannis 
Papalekas has over 18 years of real estate 
investment and development experience,    
16 of which were in Romania, having created 
one of the most successful real estate 
development and investment groups in the 
Romanian real estate market.
He is experienced in the acquisition, master 
planning, development, reconstruction, 
refurbishment, operation and asset 
management of land and buildings across all 
major asset classes in Romania. Ioannis has 
been responsible for the development of 
more than 400k sqm of commercial (office, 
retail and logistics) space and 1,000 
residential units in Romania, realising an IRR 
of 175% and an equity multiple of 4.7x on 
invested capital.
Ioannis Papalekas
Founder & Chief
Executive Officer
Dimitris Raptis joined Globalworth in 
November 2012, following 16 years of 
experience in the financial services and real 
estate investment management industries 
with Deutsche Bank, the last 12 years as a 
senior member of the real estate investment 
management group of Deutsche Bank’s 
Asset and Wealth Management division 
('RREEF'). 
From 2008 to 2012, Dimitris was Managing 
Director and European Head of Portfolio 
Management for RREEF Opportunistic 
Investments ('ROI'). In this role he was 
responsible for overseeing ROI’s acquisitions 
across Europe as well as managing ROI’s 
pan-European real estate investment 
portfolio consisting of 40 investments with a 
gross asset value in excess of €6bn. 
From 2000 to 2008, Dimitris was a senior 
member of the team responsible for 
originating, structuring and executing real 
estate investments, with a main focus on the 
French, Italian and South-Eastern European 
markets with an enterprise value in excess of 
€5.5bn across all major asset classes.
Dimitris Raptis
Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief 
Investment Officer
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Eli Alroy has extensive international 
experience in real estate investment and 
project management. From 1994 to 2012 Eli 
was Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 
Globe Trade Centre S.A. ('GTC'), traded on 
the Warsaw stock exchange. During part of 
this period (from 1994 to 1997) Eli also served 
as the CEO of Kardan Real Estate.
Eli received a BSc in civil engineering from 
the Technion in Israel and an MSc from 
Stanford University in the USA.
In 2010 Eli was honoured with the prestigious 
CEEQA Real Estate Lifetime Achievement 
award, sponsored by the Financial Times, for 
his commitment to the real estate industry in 
Central and Eastern Europe.
Eli Alroy
Non-Executive Director 
and Senior Independent 
Director
John Whittle is a resident of Guernsey. He is 
a Chartered Accountant and holds the IoD 
Diploma in Company Direction.  He is a 
Non-Executive Director of International 
Public Partnerships Ltd
2
 (FTSE 250), Starwood 
European Real Estate Finance Ltd
1
 (LSE), Toro 
Ltd
1
 (SFM), India Capital Growth Fund Ltd, 
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Ltd
1
 and 
Aberdeen Frontier Markets Investment 
Company Ltd
3
 (AIM) and GLI Finance Ltd 
(AIM)
1
. 
He also acts as Non-Executive Director to 
several other, mainly PE, Guernsey 
investment funds and B&Q Channel Islands.  
Immediately before choosing to become 
Non-Executive he was Finance Director of 
Close Fund Services, a large independent 
fund administrator, where he successfully 
initiated a restructuring of client financial 
reporting services and was a key member of 
the business transition team.  
Prior to moving to Guernsey he was at 
Pricewaterhouse in London before  
embarking on a career in business services, 
predominantly retail and telecoms. He co-led 
the business turnaround of Talkland 
International (now Vodafone Retail) and was 
directly responsible for the strategic shift into 
retail distribution and its subsequent 
implementation; he subsequently worked on 
the £20 million private equity acquisition  
of Ora Telecom. He was previously at  
John Lewis and was CFO of Windsmoor 
(London LSE).
John Whittle
Non-Executive Director, 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee
Akbar Rafiq serves as a Partner, Portfolio 
Manager and Head of Europe Credit at York 
Capital Management. Akbar joined York 
Capital Management in June 2011 and is a 
Partner of York Capital Management Europe 
(UK) Advisors LLP. Akbar is a Co-Portfolio 
Manager of the York European Distressed 
Credit funds. 
From 2007 to 2011, Akbar worked as a Vice 
President and Senior Distressed Debt Analyst 
at Deutsche Bank AG, London. Previously, 
Akbar held various positions in the 
investment banking division at Bear, Stearns 
and Co. Inc. From 2000 to 2003, Akbar 
worked as an Associate for a private equity 
firm, Alta Communications.
Akbar Rafiq
Non-Executive
Director
1. Audit Committee Chair
2. Audit Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director
3. Chairman
Geoff Miller
Non-Executive Director, 
Chairman of the Board  
and the Remuneration 
Committee
57 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 56 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW Alexis Atteslis serves as a Managing Director 
at Oak Hill Advisors with senior responsibility 
for European investments. He has more than 
12 years of experience in the finance industry, 
having previously worked at Deutsche Bank 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
He received an MA from the University of 
Cambridge and has earned a Chartered 
Accountant qualification with the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England  
and Wales.
Andreea Petreanu is currently Head of Credit 
Risk Management at Mizuho International in 
London. Over the past 16 years, Andreea has 
had various risk management roles with 
global investment banks such as Morgan 
Stanley, HSBC, Merrill Lynch, Bank of America 
and VTB Capital. 
Andreea’s educational background includes 
an Executive MBA from the University of 
Cambridge, Judge Business School and an 
MSc in Insurance and Risk Management from 
City University, CASS Business School. She is 
also an Associate of the Chartered Insurance 
Institute in London.
Andreea Petreanu  
Non-Executive Director 
Norbert Sasse is Chief Executive Officer of 
Growthpoint.
He has 10 years’ experience in corporate 
finance with Ernst & Young Corporate 
Advisory (in South Africa and London) and 
Investec Corporate Finance (in South Africa). 
Norbert was instrumental in growing 
Growthpoint from a listed property fund 
having assets of ZAR 100 million and a market 
capitalisation of ZAR 30 million in 2001 to 
being South Africa’s largest listed property 
company with assets of over ZAR 112 billion 
and a market capitalisation of ZAR 73 billion 
as at January 2017. 
Norbert led Growthpoint’s first offshore 
investment in Australia in 2009 by investing 
AUD200 million in Orchard Industrial Fund, 
and subsequently renamed Growthpoint 
Properties Australia, ('GOZ') a property 
company that was facing foreclosure. With a 
market capitalisation of AUD250 million 
following the recapitalisation of the company 
by Growthpoint, GOZ has now grown to a 
market cap of AUD2 billion. 
Norbert was involved in establishing the 
Association of Property Loan Stock 
Companies (PLS Association) which has 
subsequently been renamed SAREIT (South 
African Real Estate Association).  
Norbert holds a BCom and Honours degree 
in Accounting from Rand Afrikaans University 
and is a Chartered Accountant.
Norbert Sasse 
Non-Executive Director
Peter Fechter has deeply embedded 
entrepreneurial experiences of all aspects of 
the property space. After graduating as civil 
engineer in 1968, he worked in South Africa 
as a site agent and tendering estimator, 
becoming CEO of large private construction 
company in 1978. He formed his own business 
in 1980 which successfully engaged in 
general contracting and doing its own 
property developments for sale and selective 
own investment.
After 20 years, Peter’s business was 
voluntarily closed, with the property portfolio 
being sold to an IPO company. When this 
company merged with Growthpoint 
Properties in 2003, he was appointed as 
Non-Executive Director of Growthpoint, 
serving on the Audit and Risk Committees  
and as Chairman of the Property Iinvestment 
Committee, all resulting in regular and close 
involvement in merger, acquisition  
and investment deals in South Africa  
and Australia.
George Muchanya is responsible for 
Corporate Strategy at Growthpoint and is a 
member of the Executive Committee. 
After spending his initial career years as an 
engineer, George made a career change into 
banking in 2000 where he worked in retail 
product development, treasury and 
investment banking both in South Africa and 
the UK. This was followed by a brief period at 
a global management consulting firm. 
George joined Growthpoint in 2005, where 
he focuses largely on mergers and 
acquisitions. The period since he joined saw 
Growthpoint concluding transformational 
transactions including the expansion of 
Growthpoint into Australia, the acquisition of 
the iconic V&A in Cape Town, single and 
large property portfolio acquisitions, and the 
consolidation, through mergers and 
acquisitions, by Growthpoint of the South 
African listed property sector. George played 
an integral part in this transformation and 
was part of the frontline deal negotiation and 
execution team. 
George holds a BSc in Engineering from the 
University of Natal, MBA from Wales 
University, a certificate in Corporate Finance 
from the London Business School as well as  
a leadership certificate from Harvard 
Business School. 
George Muchanya
Non-Executive Director
Richard van Vliet is a qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in South Africa and England and 
Wales. On leaving Pricewaterhouse in South 
Africa he became the sole proprietor of an 
audit practice in Johannesburg, with work 
biased towards international mergers and 
acquisitions, taxation and financial structures.
From 1995 until mid-1997 he also represented 
the Jersey General Group, an offshore 
investment group of companies, in 
Johannesburg. He relocated to Guernsey in 
August 1997 as a founding member of 
Cannon Asset Management Limited and is 
now the Managing Director. He currently 
holds the chairmanship of The Cubic 
Property Fund, a Channel Islands Securities 
Exchange listed fund, and a number of Board 
positions on companies and investment 
funds exposed to property, equity and 
alternative investments. He also held the 
position of a main board member of Thames 
River Capital Holdings Limited, a fund 
management company with USD 9billion 
prior to its disposal.
Richard van Vliet
Non-Executive Director
Peter Fechter 
Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
CONTINUED
Alexis Atteslis
Non-Executive Director 
59 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 58 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW THE TEAM
TOP MANAGEMENT WITH A STRONG 
TRACK RECORD IN  
THE REAL ESTATE SECTOR
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Gender diversity
2016
2015
2016
46%
Age
29%
11%
60%
Length of service*
54%
29%
6%
17%
49%
53%
21%
11%
68%
47%
30%
7%
16%
47%
Board Management Board Management Board Management
34
32
1
7
50%
25%
25%
62%
29%
9%
50%
50%
48%
27%
6%
18%
2015
Board Management Board Management Board Management
33
32
1
7
25%
25%
50%
71%
20%
9%
50%
50%
46%
28%
8%
18%
Male Female Under 25
41 – 50 Over 50
25 – 40 Up to 3 years
Over 10 years
3 – 6 years
6 – 10 years
Diversity
The Group maintains a policy of employing the best candidates available in every position, 
regardless of gender, ethnic group or background. Information about the diversity of the Group’s 
Directors and employees is set out below:
 ¡ 18 yrs (16 yrs in Romania) real estate  
track record
 ¡ Multi-sector real estate experience in 
Romania and SEE
 ¡ Realised return on investments of (“IRR”)  
of 175% and an equity multiple of 4.7
Ioannis Papalekas
Founder & CEO
 ¡ 9 yrs of experience with UBS (6 yrs), BAML 
and Credit Agricole in Leveraged Capital 
Markets, Special Situations Group, 
Emerging Markets Lending and DCM
 ¡ Joined Globalworth in 2014
Stan Andre
Deputy CIO
 ¡ 14 yrs of experience in EMEA real estate 
and lodging including 10 yrs with Citigroup 
Investment Banking (7 yrs) and Eurobank 
Properties
 ¡ Joined Globalworth in 2013
Stamatis Sapkas
Deputy CIO
Platform of 66 professionals highly skilled in their respective fields
Andreas Papadopoulos
CFO
 ¡ Chartered Accountant with c.24 yrs of 
experience in audit and transactions 
advisory
 ¡ 16 yrs with big 4 audit firms (EY and PwC)
 ¡ Joined Globalworth in 2014
 ¡ +20 yrs of experience in accounting,  
finance and business administration
 ¡ Part of the Founder’s team since 2002
Adrian Danoiu
COO
Dimitris Raptis
Deputy CEO/CIO
 ¡ 20 yrs of experience in financial services  
and real estate 
 ¡ Former MD and European Head of 
Portfolio Management for Deutsche Bank’s 
RREEF Opportunistic Investments
 ¡ Managed a portfolio of 40 investments  
(GAV >€6 billion)
 ¡ Joined Globalworth in 2012
Accounting  
and Finance 
Ô
A. Papadopoulos 
(CFO)  
(+ 15 people)
Operations and
Administrations
Ô
A. Danoiu  
(COO) 
(+ 14 people)
Construction and 
Development 
Ô
D. Pergamalis 
(Group Head) 
(+ 9 people)
Property 
Compliance 
Ô
G. Udroiu 
(Group Head) 
(+ 4 people)
Legal 
 
Ô
 C. Tirziu 
(Group Head)  
(+ 1 person)
Leasing
 
Ô
E. Iftimie 
(Group Head) 
(+ 4 people)
Investments and 
Capital Markets 
Ô
S. Andre  
(D.CIO)/ 
S. Sapkas  
(D.CIO)  
(+ 5 people)
Asset 
Management
Ô
C. Kolonias (Group 
Head)  
(+ 4 people)
Gender diversity Age Length of service
61 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 60 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW THE TEAM  
CONTINUED
63 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW
62 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 64 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
PORTFOLIO 
REVIEW
Portfolio review 66
– Globalworth Tower 72
– BOB 74
– BOC 76
– Green Court Building “A” 78
– Green Court Building “B” 80
– Globalworth Plaza 82
– Unicredit HQ 84
– TCI  86
– City Offices 88
– Gara Herastrau 90
– Upground Towers 92
– TAP  94
– Globalworth Campus 96
– Dacia Warehouse 98 Evolution of Portfolio
“As Is” Value (€m) Value upon “Completion” (€m)
Standing Properties / 90.2%
Developments / 8.0%
Land for Future Development / 1.8%
Standing Properties / 98.3%         
Land for Future Development / 1.7%
Value upon “Completion” (€m) “As is” Value (€m)  
€977.5m €1,092.4m
Standing Properties / 90.2%
Developments / 8.0%
Land for Future Development / 1.8%
Standing Properties / 98.3%         
Land for Future Development / 1.7%
Value upon “Completion” (€m) “As is” Value (€m)  
€977.5m €1,092.4m
Standing Properties / 90.2%
Developments / 8.0%
Land for Future Development / 1.8%
Standing Properties / 98.3%         
Land for Future Development / 1.7%
Value upon “Completion” (€m) “As is” Value (€m)  
€977.5m €1,092.4m
Standing Properties / 90.2%
Developments / 8.0%
Land for Future Development / 1.8%
Standing Properties / 98.3%         
Land for Future Development / 1.7%
Value upon “Completion” (€m) “As is” Value (€m)  
€977.5m €1,092.4m
Note: Data based on 31 December 2015 appraisals
BOC
STANDING
Please see page 76
GLOBALWORTH PLAZA
STANDING
Please see page 82
BOB
STANDING
Please see page 74
UPGROUND TOWERS
STANDING
Please see page 92
GWI CAMPUS - TOWER I
DEVELOPMENT
Please see page 96
GWI CAMPUS - TOWER II
DEVELOPMENT
Please see page 96
GWI CAMPUS - TOWER III
DEVELOPMENT
Please see page 96
BEST-IN-CLASS REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO
PORTFOLIO REVIEW
Over the past three-and-a-half years, Globalworth has 
been investing exclusively in Romanian real estate, its 
principal market, assembling a portfolio of best-in-
class properties in prime locations within their 
respective sub-markets. 
By the end of 2016 the Company had 15 investments with a total of 
20 assets, all of which were located in two Romanian cities, the capital 
Bucharest and Timisoara, one of the largest logistics hubs in the country. 
Since the turn of the year we have continued to expand our footprint, 
having announced the acquisition of a standing warehouse leased to 
Automobile Dacia in Pitesti (Central Romania) and formed a partnership 
for the development of a new Class “A” office complex in the western 
part of Bucharest. These initiatives have increased our total number of 
investments and assets to 17 and 22 respectively.
Globalworth’s main focus is to invest in standing or development office 
properties, which are subsequently actively managed by the Company. 
Such properties accounted for c.81.4% of our portfolio value as of year 
end 2016. 
In addition, our exposure to the industrial sector has been increasing 
in the past couple of  years, initially driven by demand from tenants 
interested in taking up space in what has become one of our most 
successful investments, the TAP light-industrial complex in Timisoara. 
This complex consisted initially of a facility leased to Valeo Lighting and 
was expanded in 2015 following the development of two facilities let 
to Continental and Elster. A new facility leased to Valeo Lightning was 
delivered in Q1-17 and a second facility pre-let to Litens Automotive is 
scheduled for delivery in Q3-17. 
UNICREDIT HQ
STANDING
Please see page 84
GLOBALWORTH TOWER
STANDING
Please see page 72
GREEN COURT “A” AND 
“B” STANDING
Please see page 78-81
TCI
STANDING
Please see page 86
GARA HERASTRAU
STANDING
Please see page 90
CITY OFFICES
STANDING
Please see page 88
Total portfolio value upon 
completion
c.€1.1bn
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 66 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW In February 2017, Globalworth announced the acquisition of a  
68.4k sqm modern warehouse facility 100% leased to Dacia in Pitesti. 
Including the addition of the three new facilities under construction 
or being acquired, our total footprint in the light-industrial / 
warehouse sector will grow to 171.0k sqm of GLA (c.27.0k sqm year 
end 2014). 
The highest concentration of our portfolio, however, remains in the New 
CBD of Bucharest where we have eight standing properties and one 
development project, accounting for 73.4% of the value of our portfolio 
and representing 214.8k sqm of standing commercial GLA and 421 
residential units as of 31 December 2016. 
The New CBD is in the northern part of Bucharest, clustered around 
the Dimitrie Pompeiu, Calea Floreasca and Barbu Vacarescu 
Boulevards, and has seen the highest level of office investment in 
recent years as a result of its excellent accessibility and infrastructure 
(metro, tram, bus, road), its proximity to the Henri Coanda 
International Airport, and the availability of sizeable land plots. 
Key investments in the new CBD include the Class “A" flagship office 
Globalworth Tower, offering GLA of 54.7k sqm (delivered in 2016),  
two Class “A" offices which form part of the Green Court complex, 
the Class A BOC office property and, finally, our Globalworth Campus 
development which, upon completion, will offer 88.6k sqm of Class 
“A" office space supported by retail shops and other amenities.
The remainder of our Bucharest portfolio comprises Class “A" offices 
offering total GLA of 73.9k sqm and two land plots held for future 
development. These properties are spread across the capital (centre, 
north and south), with each property occupying a prime location 
within its respective sub-market.
We are very pleased that Globalworth, following the delivery of our 
Globalworth Tower in Q1-16, now owns the second, third and 
fifth-tallest office towers in Bucharest and the two single largest office 
buildings (held by an institutional investor) in Romania.
Standing Properties
Globalworth’s portfolio of standing assets increased in 2016 with the 
addition of the flagship Globalworth Tower and the smaller Gara 
Herastrau office property, which were delivered in Q1-16 and Q2-16 
respectively.
Our standing portfolio increased to 14 assets, comprising 10 Class A 
office properties and a residential complex located in Bucharest, 
while in Timisoara we own a light-industrial park comprising three 
facilities.
Globalworth’s total standing GLA at the end of 2016 had increased by 
c.18.1% to 420k sqm, of which 370.0k sqm was commercial space, 
while the appraised value of our standing investment properties rose 
to c.€881.5 million (as at 31 December 2016), representing a c.26.8% 
increase on the previous year.
Globalworth Tower is a landmark office property located in the heart 
of the New CBD of Bucharest. At a height of approximately 120 
metres it is the second-tallest office property in Romania and one of 
the biggest in terms of office space in the CEE/SEE region. 
Globalworth Tower offers approximately 54.7k sqm of Class “A" office 
space and is approximately 83.2% let to high-quality national and 
international tenants including Vodafone (telecoms), Nestor Nestor 
Diculescu Kingston Petersen (law), Huawei (telecoms), Delhaize/Mega 
Image (retail-FMCG), Wipro (IT), Bunge (services), Ferrero 
(confectionery), Anritsu Solutions (services) and Globalworth (real 
estate). Globalworth Tower recently received the award for the “Best 
Big Office Development of the Year” for 2016 in the prestigious CIJ 
Awards. Occupancy in the property increased in 2017 to 90.4% 
following the signing of new leases with new and existing tenants. 
Gara Herastrau was the second of Globalworth’s projects delivered in 
2016. This Class “A" office property is also situated in the New CBD 
and is adjacent to the Green Court Building complex and 
approximately 200 metres from Globalworth Plaza and Globalworth 
Tower. It extends over 12 floors (with an additional technical floor) and 
offers approximately 12.0k sqm of GLA. The Gara Herastrau office 
building was delivered in June 2016 and has an occupancy of 
approximately 68.9%. The property is anchored by ADP, the leading 
global provider of human capital management solutions, with other 
tenants including Saipem (oil and gas) and Tripsta (services). 
Occupancy in the property has further increased in 2017, rising to 
75.4% following a new lease signed with Baker Tilly (accounting, audit 
and tax advisory). All standing properties in the portfolio have been 
completed or refurbished since 2008, with Globalworth continuously 
investing in its properties in order to maintain them as both modern 
and in line with tenant demand. 
The number of ‘green’ properties owned by the Company has also 
increased since the beginning of 2016, with Green Court B receiving 
LEED Gold in February and the Gara Herastrau office property 
receiving BREEAM Excellent accreditation in November. In addition, 
we are very proud that our landmark Globalworth Tower property was 
officially awarded Green certification of LEED Platinum (January 2017), 
becoming the first building in Romania and the broader SEE region to 
have received the highest available Green accreditation.
The portfolio currently comprises eight Green accredited properties, 
with four others currently under various stages of Green certification. 
The Company expects to complete the Green certification process in 
the next 12 months.
At 83.1% as of 31 December 2016, occupancy of our standing portfolio 
remains high, with 307.7k sqm leased to top-quality tenants. Nine of 
our commercial properties had an occupancy rate in excess of 90% 
and we are in active discussions with a number of tenants for the 
remaining vacant space in our portfolio. 
Since the beginning of 2017, as a result of the ongoing efforts of our 
leasing team and the acquisition of the 100% let Dacia warehouse,  
the total commercial space leased in our standing portfolio has 
increased to 383.7k sqm and the average occupancy rate has reached 
87.5%. In addition to its commercial portfolio, Globalworth owns 421 
apartments in Upground Towers (Upground), a modern two-tower 
residential complex ideally situated in the new CBD, with a total of  
571 apartments. 
The property benefits from fine views of the nearby Tei lake and is 
located close to our commercial portfolio, thus allowing us to 
leverage its use and provide a complete package to our many 
international tenants looking for turnkey solutions when relocating 
their operations to the area. 
In Upground Towers we own a range of different apartments, varying 
in size (80 to 440sqm) and number of bedrooms (1 to 5). These are 
available for rental or sale and are targeted at residents interested in 
living in a complex offering top-end space combined with other 
amenities (gym, supermarket, restaurants and coffee shops etc.), 
while also being easily accessible by both public and private transport.
In 2016 we continued to market units for sale, and as a result we sold 
14 apartments. In addition, at the end of the year 205 apartments 
were leased, generating c.€1.6 million of annual rental income.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW 
CONTINUED
Property
“As Is” Value 
(€ m)
Capex 
(€ m)
Mark to  
Market Uplift 
(€ m)
Value upon 
“Completion”  
(€ m)
GW Tower 162.5 - - 162.5
BOB 50.3 - - 50.3
BOC 143.7 - - 143.7
Green Court "A" 51.3 - - 51.3
Green Court "B" 53.2 - - 53.2
GW Plaza 56.5 - - 56.5
Unicredit HQ 52.5 - - 52.5
TCI 76.7 - - 76.7
City Offices 62.0 - - 62.0
Gara Herastrau 28.8 - - 28.8
UPG 101.2 - - 101.2
TAP 50.4 12.0 2.4 64.8
GWI Campus 70.4 84.5 16.0 170.9
Herastrau One 5.8 - - 5.8
Luterana 12.3 - - 12.3
Total 977.5m 96.5m 18.4m 1,092.4m
Green Certified Properties
Globalworth Tower: LEED Platinum
BOB: BREEAM In-use/Excellent and LEED Gold 
certifications (for part of the property)
BOC: BREEAM In-use/Excellent certification
UniCredit HQ: BREEAM Very Good certification
City Offices: LEED Gold certification
Green Court “A”: LEED Gold certification
Green Court “B”: LEED Gold certification
Gara Herastrau: BREEAM Excellent
Properties Under Green Certification Process
TCI: BREEAM Very Good/Excellent
Globalworth Plaza: BREEAM Very Good/Excellent
Globalworth 
Campus:
BREEAM Very Good/Excellent
Upground Towers: BREEAM Very Good/Excellent (ongoing)
69 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW
68 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW Developments
We continued with our active development programme in 2016, 
delivering to market two Class “A" office properties with 66.7k sqm  
of GLA. As at the end of the year we had four other properties under 
construction which, upon completion, will further increase our 
footprint of high-quality office and light-industrial standing GLA  
by 78.4k sqm.    
Developments in Bucharest 
The Globalworth Campus project is a large-scale development 
situated in the new CBD of Bucharest, which upon completion will 
offer three Class “A" office towers, retail spaces and other supporting 
amenities (including a conference centre). Phase A, currently under 
construction, will comprise two side towers facing Dimitrie Pompeiu 
Street (main street) with total GLA of approximately 56.9k sqm on 
completion, while Phase B will comprise one middle tower, which on 
completion will contribute additional GLA of approximately 31.7k sqm.
The development of Phase A is progressing in line with the estimated 
timeline. In Tower I the structural concrete works have been 
completed and the façade is currently being fitted out with a glazed 
surface, which is approximately 95% complete. For Tower II, the 
necessary preparatory activities have been completed, including 
excavations, and construction of the structure has now commenced. 
We expect to deliver Tower I in Q2-17, followed by Tower II in Q1-18.
Globalworth is currently in negotiations with a number of tenants  
for the take-up of space in both towers. 
The Company has adopted a number of environmentally friendly 
principles for both office buildings under development and, as such, 
anticipates being able to achieve Green certifications of BREEAM 
Very Good or Excellent. 
Developments in Timisoara
The TAP project has proven to be a location much sought-after by 
high-quality multinational tenants and a very successful investment  
for Globalworth. Since its acquisition in July 2014 the park has been 
continuously expanded, initially with new facilities developed for 
Continental and Elster Rometrics (part of the Honeywell Group),  
who moved into TAP in 2015. In 2016 the Company signed new leases 
for the development of two facilities leased to Valeo Lightnings 
(expansion) which was delivered in Q1-17 and Litens Automotive (new 
tenant) which is currently under construction and  scheduled for 
delivery in Q3-17.
In February 2016, Valeo exercised its option to take more space in the 
TAP complex, with the development of a new light-industrial facility  
of 13.5k sqm. The delivery of the new facility in Q2-17 marked the 
second time that Valeo has expanded in the park since its arrival in 2011.
In November 2016 the Company signed a 10-year unbreakable lease 
with Litens Automotive for the development of a 8.0k sqm new 
light-industrial facility in the park. The new facility is to be developed 
on available land in TAP and is expected to be delivered in Q3-17. The 
German Litens Automotive Group is a leading global designer and 
manufacturer of engineered power transmission systems and 
components, with more than 35 years of experience in the market. 
TAP offered a total of 81.3k sqm of GLA and was c.97.3% occupied  
at the end of 2016. GLA in the complex is expected to increase to  
102.9k sqm by Q3-17, and has the potential for further development 
reaching a total GLA of 131.4k sqm as a result of the extension options 
currently available to the existing tenants of the park.
The “As Is” value of the Development Projects as of 31 December 
2016 was approximately €77.9 million. On completion, the projects are 
expected to deliver approximately 138.7k sqm of new office and 
light-industrial space, with an appraised value of c.€192.8 million.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW 
CONTINUED
Commercial Properties Q4-15 Q4-16
Number of Investments 9  11  
Number of Assets 11  13  
GLA (sqm) 303,155  370,033  
“As Is” Valuation: 595.6  788.6  
Occupancy 85.1% 83.1%
Contracted Rent 36.3  46.9  
WALL 6.0  6.4  
Total Standing Properties Q4-15 Q4-16
Number of Investments 10 12
Number of Assets 12 14
GLA (sqm) 355,513 419,986
“As Is” Valuation: 695.1 881.5
Contracted Rent 37.8 48.5
Land for Future Development
Globalworth owns land plots in two prime locations in Bucharest (Herastrau Lake 
and the historical CBD) for future development. These plots represent further 
opportunities for office or mixed-use developments, which the Company intends 
to take advantage of in the future in order to further grow its real estate portfolio.
The total land size for future development in these two locations is approximately 
9.8k sqm, with an appraised value of approximately €18.1 million.
Development Projects –  Breakdown by Status Q4-16       Under Construction
(1)
Future Development
(2)
Total Development
Number of Investments 2 2 2 investments developed 
in stages
Number of Assets to be Developed 4 2 6
GLA (sqm) 78,444 60,229 138,673
“As is” Valuation €58.7m €19.3m €77.9m
“Completion” Valuation €118.7m €74.1m €192.8m
Notes:
(1) “Under Construction” comprises Globalworth Campus Phase I, TAP Valeo (expansion) and TAP Litens (new facility).
(2) “Future Development” comprises Globalworth Campus Phase II and other expansion options available at TAP.
71 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OvER vIEW
70 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW GLOBALWORTH TOWER
‘Globalworth Tower’ is a landmark Class “A” office 
building located in the northern part of Bucharest on 
the junction of three main streets: Barbu Vacarescu 
Street, Pipera Road and Calea Floreasca.
Globalworth Tower is the second-tallest office property in Bucharest  
with a height of 120m, extending over 26 floors above ground and  
three underground levels.  
The project was acquired in December 2013 and subsequently 
developed by Globalworth and following its delivery it offers  
c.54.7k sqm of GLA and 638 parking spaces. Globalworth Tower is the 
first building in Romania and the broader SEE region having received 
LEED Platinum accreditation which is the highest available Green 
accreditation. 
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100%
Year of Completion: 2016
Appraised value “As Is”: €162.5 million
GLA: 54,686 sqm
Occupancy: 83.2% (90.4% as of 27 Mar. ‘17)
Contracted Rent: €9.5 million (€10.3 million as of 
27 Mar. ‘17)
WALL: 8.8 years
Selected Tenants: Vodafone, Huawei, Delhaize Group, 
NNDKP , Globalworth, Wipro, 
Bunge
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
1st LEED Platinum  
Office in the SEE region
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
72 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2008
Appraised value “As Is”: €50.3 million
GLA: 22,391 sqm
Occupancy: 97.3%
Contracted Rent: €3.6 million
WALL: 5.5 years
Selected Tenants: Deutsche Bank, Stefanini, NX Data, 
NBG Group, Clearanswer Europe
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
BOB
BOB is a modern Class “A” multi-tenanted office 
building located in the Northern part of Bucharest on 
Dimitrie Pompeiu Boulevard.
The property was delivered in 2008 and received both BREEAM 
In-use/Excellent and LEED Gold certifications (for part of the 
property) in 2014.
BOB was acquired by Globalworth in March 2014 and offers  
22.4k sqm of GLA over seven floors above ground and 157 parking 
spaces.
The property is part of a wider building complex developed between 
2006 and 2011, which includes BOC and Upground Towers.
Dual Green Accreditation –  
BREEAM Excellent  
and LEED Platinum  
for DB’s space. 
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
74 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest / New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2009
Appraised value “As Is”: €143.7 million
GLA: 56,962 sqm
Occupancy: 97.3%
Contracted Rent: €9.5 million
WALL: 5.8 years
Selected Tenants: Honeywell, NBG Group, HP , GfK, 
Nestle, EADs, Deutsche Telekom, 
Mood Media,  Stefanini
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
BOC
BOC is a modern Class “A” multi-tenanted office 
building located in the northern part of Bucharest on 
George Constantinescu Street.
The property was delivered in 2009 and received BREEAM In-use/
Excellent Green certification in 2014. It was nominated in the category 
for the best Green “Office: In-Use” property in the 2015 BREEAM 
awards. It was the first property in Romania to be rated “Excellent”  
for Asset Performance (Part 1) and Building Management (Part 2).
BOC was acquired by Globalworth in March 2014 offering 57.0k sqm 
of GLA and 895 parking spaces. The property extends over eight 
floors above ground and has three underground levels.
The property is part of a wider building complex developed between 
2006 and 2011, which includes BOB and Upground Towers.
Largest office floor & largest 
single office building in 
Romania.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
76 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2014
Appraised value “As Is”: €51.3 million
GLA: 19,589 sqm
Occupancy: 100.0%
Contracted Rent: €3.4 million
WALL: 5.3 years
Selected Tenants: Orange, Schneider Electric,  
CITR, Skanska
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
Green Court Building “A” is a Class “A” multi-tenanted 
office building located in the northern part of 
Bucharest on Gara Herastrau Street.
The property, which was developed by Skanska, was completed in 
2014 and received LEED Gold certification in 2015.
Green Court Building “A” was acquired by Globalworth in June 2015, 
and is offering 19.6k sqm of GLA and 262 parking spaces. The property 
extends over 12 floors above ground and has three underground 
levels.
The property is part of the wider Green Court Building complex 
developed by Skanska which upon completion will comprise three 
office towers (Globalworth currently owns two of the three office 
buildings).
GREEN COURT
BUILDING “A”
100% leased since 
acquisition in 2015.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
78 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2015
Appraised value “As Is”: €53.2 million
GLA: 18,369 sqm
Occupancy: 100.0%
Contracted Rent: €3.5 million
WALL: 4.2 years
Selected Tenants: Carrefour, Sanofi, Colgate, Ericsson, 
Adecco, Abbott
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
GREEN COURT
BUILDING “B”
Green Court Building “B” is a Class “A” multi-tenanted 
office building located in the northern part of 
Bucharest on Gara Herastrau Street.
The property, which was developed by Skanska, was completed in 
2015 and received LEED Gold certification in 2016.
Green Court Building “B” was acquired by Globalworth in  
December 2015, and is offering 18.4k sqm of GLA and 328 parking 
spaces. The property extends over 12 floors above ground and has  
three underground levels.
The property is part of the wider Green Court Building complex 
developed by Skanska which upon completion will comprise  
three office towers (Globalworth currently owns two of the three 
office buildings).
Second building of the 
Green Court complex 
acquired by Globalworth  
in 2015
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
80 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2010
Appraised value “As Is”: €56.5 million
GLA: 24,020 sqm
Occupancy: 29.7% (41.6% as of 27 Mar. ’17)
Contracted Rent: €1.3 million   
(€1.8 million as of 27 Mar. ’17)
WALL: 4.7 years
Selected Tenants: Patria Bank, Bayer, Anima, Printec, 
Coface
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
GLOBALWORTH PLAZA
“Globalworth Plaza” is a Class “A” multi-tenanted 
office building located in the northern part of 
Bucharest on the junction of Pipera Road and Gara 
Herastrau Street.
The property was delivered in 2010 and was partially refurbished 
during 2014/15.
Globalworth Plaza was acquired by Globalworth in March 2015,  
and is offering 24.0k sqm of GLA and 336 parking spaces.  
The property extends over 21 floors above ground and has  
three underground levels.
Third tallest Class “A”  
office tower located at  
the entrance of the  
New CBD.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
82 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/North
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” single-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2012
Appraised value “As Is”: €52.5 million
GLA: 15,500 sqm
Occupancy: 100.0%
Contracted Rent: €3.8 million
WALL: 5.4 years
Selected Tenants: UniCredit Bank
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
UNICREDIT HQ
“Unicredit HQ” is a landmark Class “A” single-tenanted 
office building located in the northern  
part of Bucharest on Expozitiei Boulevard,  
off Presei Libere Square.
The property was delivered in 2012 and has received BREEAM  
In-Use/Very Good Green certification.
Unicredit HQ is the headquarters of the UniCredit Bank and  
was ranked 17th on the list of the 30th most architecturally impressive 
banks in the world in 2013.
Globalworth acquired the Unicredit HQ in March 2015 and is offering 
c.15.5k sqm of GLA and 146 parking spaces. The property extends 
over 16 floors above ground and has two underground levels.
Ranked 17th in the 2013 
global list of the most 
architecturally impressive 
bank headquarters.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
84 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/Historical CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2012
Appraised value “As Is”: €76.7 million
GLA: 22,453 sqm
Occupancy: 99.7%
Contracted Rent: €5.0 million
WALL: 4.1 years
Selected Tenants: Ministry of European Funds,  
Ernst & Young, Hidroelectrica, 
Cegeka, Deutsche Bank
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
TCI
“TCI” is a landmark modern Class “A” multi-tenanted 
office building located in Bucharest’s historical CBD,  
at Victoriei Square.
The property was delivered in 2012 and acquired by Globalworth  
in February 2014.
TCI consists of two interconnected buildings and, at 106 metres  
high, is currently the third-tallest office property in Bucharest. 
The property offers c.22.4k sqm of GLA and 202 parking spaces, 
extending over 26 floors above ground and four  
underground levels. 
Tallest office tower  
in Bucharest’s CBD  
with c.106 metres.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
86 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/South
Status: Standing Property
Description: Mixed-use property comprising a 
commercial building and  
multi-level Parking
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2014
Appraised value “As Is”: €62.0 million
GLA: 35,968 sqm
Occupancy: 21.8% (25.3% as of 27 Mar. ‘17)
Contracted Rent: €1.4 million (€1.5 million as of 
27 Mar. ‘17)
WALL: 4.5 years
Selected Tenants: Vodafone, Delhaize Group, Max 
Bet, Billa, Piraeus Bank, Credit 
Agricole Bank, Procredit Bank
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
CITY OFFICES
“City Offices” is a mixed-use property comprising two 
connected buildings, a commercial building and 
multi-level parking. The property is located at the 
southern part of Bucharest in the densely populated 
area of Eroii Revolutiei.
The commercial building was entirely refurbished by Globalworth, 
with works completed in Q4-14, and received LEED Gold accreditation 
in October 2016.
City Offices was acquired by Globalworth in September 2013 and 
offers 36.0k sqm of commercial GLA over six floors above ground  
and 1,019 parking spaces.
Fully refurbished Class “A” 
back-office building.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
88 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Standing Property
Description: Class “A” office building
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2016
Appraised value “As Is”: €28.8 million
GLA: 12,037 sqm
Occupancy: 68.9% (75.4% as of 27 Mar. ’17)
Contracted Rent: €1.4 million  (€1.6 million as of  
27 Mar. ’17)
WALL: 6.3 years
Selected Tenants: ADP , Saipem, Baker Tilly, Tripsta
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
GARA HERASTRAU
“Gara Herastrau” is a Class “A” office building located 
in the northern part of Bucharest on Gara Herastrau 
street. It is adjacent to Green Court Building “A” and  
is c.200 meters away from Globalworth Tower. 
The land was acquired in December 2014 and subsequently the 
project was developed by Globalworth, and delivered to the market 
in Q2-16.
Gara Herastrau offers c.12.0k sqm of GLA and 157 parking spaces.  
The property extends over 12 floors above ground and will have  
three underground levels. 
The property received BREEAM Excellent accreditation in  
November 2016.
Newly completed  
Class “A” office property. 
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
90 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest / New CBS
Status: Standing Property
Description: Residential complex comprising 
two towers
Ownership: 100%
Year of Completion: 2011
Appraised value “As Is”: €101.2 million
GLA: 56,662 sqm
Occupancy: Commercial: 99.3%/Residential: 
47.8%
Contracted Rent: €2.4 million
WALL: 7.4/1.9 years
Selected Tenants: WorldClass, Delhaize Group, Marfin 
Bank, Subway, Starbucks, Sensiblue
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
UPGROUND TOWERS
“Upground Towers” is a modern residential complex 
located in the northern part of Bucharest on Fabrica 
de Glucoza Street.
The property was delivered in 2011 and comprises two buildings  
with a total GBA of 101.4k sqm. In total Upground Towers offers 571 
residential units, of which Globalworth (as of 31 December 2016)  
owns 421. Globalworth owns in addition 25 retail units and 580 
parking spaces in the complex.
Upground Towers is part of a wider building complex developed 
between 2006 and 2011, which includes BOB and BOC.
Modern two-tower 
residential complex, 
offering high quality 
residential units and 
supporting amenities.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
92 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – STANDING/UNDER DEVELOPMENT
CONTINUED
Location: Timisoara (Western Romania)
Status: Standing/Under Development 
Property
Description: Light-industrial complex
Ownership: 100%
Year of Completion: 2011 – 2017E
Appraised value “As Is”: €50.4 million
Appraised value “Completion”: €64.8 million
GLA: 81,349 sqm (Q1-17: 94,877 sqm + 
8,000 sqm under construction)
Occupancy: 97.3%
Contracted Rent: €4.4 million (incl. pre-lettings  
under construction)
WALL: 11.1 years
Selected Tenants: Continental, Valeo, Elster, Litens
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
TAP
The Timisoara Airport Park (‘TAP’), is a light-industrial 
complex located in the North-East of Timisoara.  
The property is in close vicinity to the international 
airport and benefits from easy access to the fourth 
European Corridor.
The complex has been developed in phases and  
offered total GLA of 81.3k sqm at the end of 2016. In Q1-17 total GLA 
reached 94.9k sqm following the delivery of a new facility leased to 
Valeo Lightnings, and is expected to increase further to c.102.9k sqm 
by Q3-17 following the delivery of the facility under development for 
Litens Automotive.
TAP is almost exclusively let to Valeo Lightnings, Continental, 
Elster Rometrics and Litens Automotive. 
The complex has maximum capacity of total GLA of c.131.4k sqm.
High quality and fast 
growing light-industrial  
and logistics complex.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
94 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 95 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – DEVELOPMENTS
CONTINUED
Location: Bucharest/New CBD
Status: Development/Under Construction
Description: Class “A” multi-tenanted  
office complex
Ownership: 100.0%
Year of Completion: 2017E / 2018E
Appraised value “As Is”: €70.4 million
Appraised value “Completion”: €170.9 million
GLA: 88,650 sqm (Phase “A”: 56,900 sqm)
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016.
GLOBALWORTH CAMPUS
“Globalworth Campus” is a Class “A” office 
development located in the northern part of Bucharest 
on Dimitrie Pompeiu street.
The site for the development of Globalworth Campus was acquired in 
2013 and 2014 and is subsequently being developed by Globalworth.
Phase “A”, currently under construction, will comprise two (side) 
towers facing Dimitrie Pompeiu Street (main street) offering upon 
completion a total GLA of c.56.9k sqm. The two towers are expected 
to be delivered in Q2-17 and Q1-18 respectively and will extend over 
12 floors (each) above ground and will have two underground levels. 
Phase “B” will comprise of a third tower offering an additional GLA  
of c.31.7k sqm.
The development is expected to received BREEAM Very Good/
Excellent certification following its completion.
Class “A” office complex 
development of three 
towers located in the  
New CBD.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
96 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW – 2017 ANNOUNCED ACQUISITIONS
CONTINUED
Location: Pitesti (Central Romania)
Status: Standing Property
Description: Modern Warehouse
Ownership: 100%
Year of Completion: 2010
Appraised value “As Is”: €42.5m (transaction value)
GLA: 68,412 sqm
Occupancy: 100.0%
Contracted Rent: €4.1 million
WALL: 8.3 years (as of 27 Mar. ‘17)
Selected Tenants: Automobile Dacia
DACIA WAREHOUSE
The “Dacia Warehouse”, is a modern warehouse 
located in Pitesti (central Romania), 100km west  
of Bucharest near the Bucharest-Pitesti motorway,  
one of the country’s principal warehouse and  
industrial corridors.
The property is leased solely to Automobile Dacia, offering c.68.4k 
sqm of GLA, and is one of the Renault Group’s largest spare parts  
and accessories distribution centres outside of France.
Globalworth announced the acquisition of “Dacia Warehouse”  
in February 2017.
GOv ERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW STRATEGIC REv IEW
98 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 99 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
101 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 100 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report 102
Directors’ Report 104
Remuneration Committee Report 107
Audit Committee Report 109 102 103 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
Introduction
The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place a framework for corporate governance 
which it believes is appropriate considering its type of activities and size.
Corporate Governance Principles 
The Company has continued to comply voluntarily with the main principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘UK Code’). The Board believes that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 with the provisions set out 
in the UK Code, subject to the statements made below in this section.
Board of Directors
Introduction
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the Board comprised the Chairman, who is a Non-Executive Director, two Executive Directors and 
five other Non-Executive Directors. On 27 February 2017, an additional four Non-Executive Directors were appointed as members of the 
Board.
The Articles of Incorporation of the Investment Adviser (Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Group) provide that the Board of Directors of the Investment Adviser comprises two Executive Directors (Ioannis Papalekas and Dimitris 
Raptis) and two Non-Executive Directors (Geoff Miller and John Whittle). 
As at 31 December 2016, with the exception of the Company and the Investment Adviser, there are no common directorships between 
members of the Board. 
Chairman 
The Chairman of the Board is Geoff Miller. In considering the independence of the Chairman, the Board has taken note of the provisions of the 
UK Code relating to independence and, at the quarterly Board meeting held in December 2016, it has appointed Eli Alroy as the Senior 
Independent Director of the Company.
Directors
Directors’ Duties and Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for the determination and oversight of the Company’s investing policy and strategy and have overall 
responsibility for the Company’s activities, including the review of its investment activity and performance, and the activities and performance 
of the Management Team.
Details on the profile, experience and date of appointment of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on pages 56-59 of the 
Annual Report.
Committees of the Board
The Committees of the Board comprise the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Investment Committee, with terms of 
reference briefly summarised below. Further details about the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee and on their work during 
the year are provided in the Remuneration Committee Report and the Audit Committee Report on pages 107-108 and pages 109-111, 
respectively, of the Annual Report. 
The Investment Committee was formed in February 2017. The Committee consists of Eli Alroy (Chairman of the Committee), Ioannis Papalekas, 
Dimitris Raptis, Norbert Sasse and George Muchanya. The Investment Committee was formed primarily for the purpose of considering:
 ¡ all acquisitions, disposals and developments or redevelopments of physical property assets and letting enterprises in accordance with the 
thresholds set out in the delegated authority framework;
 ¡ capital expenditure, including refurbishments and developments or redevelopments of physical property assets and letting enterprises in 
accordance with the thresholds set out in the delegated authority framework;
 ¡ periodic review of systems and processes for due diligence reviews relative to acquisitions of physical property assets and letting 
enterprises;
 ¡ annual budgets for capital expenditure;
 ¡ annual valuations of physical property assets and letting enterprises;
 ¡ philosophy, policies and strategy in respect of investment in physical property assets and letting enterprises;
 ¡ loan and debt securitisation within the thresholds set out in the delegated authority framework; and
 ¡ lease agreements and amendments thereto within the thresholds set out in the delegated authority framework, and making 
recommendations in respect thereof to the Board or any appropriate Committee of the Board of the Company.
During the year, we appointed a Compliance Officer in the UK whose responsibilities include providing the Group with guidance and advice 
on regulatory and compliance matters, as well as company secretarial support.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Shareholder Communications
A report on shareholder communications is considered at each Board meeting. A quarterly announcement is published on the Company’s 
website, reporting the quarter-end net asset value. Regular trading updates are also posted on the Company’s website with commentary on 
significant events in the evolution of the Company’s portfolio and performance. 
The Company’s senior management and its brokers maintain regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, feedback from which is reported 
to the Board. In addition, Board members are available to answer shareholders’ questions at any time, and specifically at the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM'). The Company Secretary is available to answer general shareholder queries at any time during the year. The Board monitors 
activity in the Company’s shares and the discount or premium to net asset value at which the shares trade both in absolute terms and relative 
to the Company’s peers. 
Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and Directors’ Attendance
The number of meetings of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee attended by each Director, as 
applicable, during the year ended 31 December 2016 is set out below.
Quarterly Board 
Meetings
Ad-hoc 
Board Meetings
Board Committee 
Meetings
Board Meetings 
(Total)
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
 
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Eligible to 
Attend Attended
Ioannis Papalekas 4 4 14 10 – – 18 14 – – – –
Dimitris Raptis 4 4 14 14 1 1 19 19 – – – –
Geoff Miller 4 4 15 14 1 1 20 19 3 3 4 2
Eli Alroy 4 4 15 12 – – 19 16 – – 4 3
John Whittle 4 3 15 11 1 1 20 15 3 3 4 4
Akbar Rafiq 4 3 9 3 – – 13 6 – – – –
Alexis Atteslis 4 4 6 2 – – 10 6 – – – –
Andreea Petreanu 4 4 15 12 – – 19 16 3 3 – –
Nomination Committee
The Board as a whole fulfils the function of a Nomination Committee. The size and independence of the Board is such that it is considered that 
the function of such a committee is best carried out by the Board as a whole. Any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved 
by the Board, however, significant shareholders (Ioannis Papalekas and Growthpoint Properties Ltd) have the power to appoint additional 
Directors. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, each of Growthpoint and Zakiano Holdings Limited may nominate and appoint 
one Non-Executive Director for every eight per cent. of the issued shares in the share capital in the Company which it holds. Growthpoint and 
Zakiono Enterprises Limited are also each entitled to nominate one of the Guernsey resident directors (a minimum of two Guernsey resident 
directors are required pursuant to the Articles).
Management Engagement Committee 
No separate Management Engagement Committee has been constituted to date as the monitoring of management is considered a primary 
function of the Board. 
Performance Evaluation
The Board formally considers on an annual basis its effectiveness as a Board, the balance of skills represented and the composition and 
performance of its committees. The Board considers that it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience in relation to the activities of 
the Company. The Chairman evaluates the performance of each of the Directors on an annual basis, taking into account the effectiveness of 
their contributions and their commitment to the role. The performance and contribution of the Chairman is reviewed by the other Directors 
under the leadership of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
An evaluation of the performance of the Board members who served during the entire year ended 31 December 2016 has been undertaken. 
The performance of the Chairman of the Board was also evaluated by the other Directors under the leadership of the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. The result of the evaluation carried out was that all Directors’ performance is in line with the expectations set out at 
the point of their appointment to the Board.
Independence Evaluation
The Board will consider the independence of each member of the Board at the next quarterly Board meeting, within June 2017.
Tenure and Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Company’s Non-Executive Directors, except Akbar Rafiq and Alexis Atteslis 
(nominated and appointed by York Capital and Oak Hill Advisors, respectively), as well as Norbert Sasse, George Muchanya, Peter Henry 
Fechter and Richard van Vliet (nominated and appointed by Growthpoint Properties Ltd), shall retire from office annually and may offer 
themselves for re-election by the Members. At the next AGM Geoff Miller, John Whittle, Eli Alroy, and Andreea Petreanu are required to retire 
from office and offer themselves for re-election. Geoff Miller, John Whittle, Eli Alroy, and Andreea Petreanu will stand for re-election at the 
forthcoming AGM. The Board has reviewed their skills and experience and is recommending their re-election to shareholders.
Moreover, Ioannis Papalekas and Dimitris Raptis are not required to submit themselves for re-election, unless required to do so by a two-thirds 
vote of the Company.
Diversity
The details are provided on page 61 of the Annual Report. 104 105 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2016.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company maintains qualifying third-party indemnity provisions in the form of a Directors’ and Officers’ insurance policy for the benefit of 
its Directors, which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Investment Policy
The Group’s investment strategy focuses on generating attractive risk-adjusted returns, made up of a combination of yield and capital 
appreciation, by investing in a diversified portfolio of properties. Key highlights of the Company’s investment policy are presented below:
Profile of Underlying Investments
 ¡ Focus on commercial assets (existing or to be developed);
 ¡ Geographically located in South-Eastern Europe/Central and Eastern Europe with a primary focus on Romania;
 ¡ Most of the income to be derived from multinational corporates and financial institutions; and
 ¡ Euro-denominated, long-term, triple net and annually indexed leases, with corporate guarantees where possible.
Investment Themes
 ¡ Distressed investments
 ¡ Acquisition of unfinished or partially let commercial buildings at prices below replacement cost;
 ¡ Restructuring;
 ¡ Acquisition of real estate owned by financial institutions or others seeking to restructure their balance sheets through monetisation; and
 ¡ Developments with pre-lettings from high-quality tenants.
The complete investment policy of the Company can be found on its website under Investor Relations/AIM Rule 26 disclosures and on page 
149 of the Annual Report.
Results and Dividends
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 114 of the Annual Report.
The Company has announced its intention to distribute a dividend of €0.22 per share, payable in respect of the six-month financial period 
ending on 30 June 2017, to holders of Shares at that time and a dividend of €0.22 per share, payable in respect of the six-month financial 
period ending on 31 December 2017. For subsequent years, the intention of the Company is to distribute the equivalent of 90% of the 
Company’s Funds from Operations (FFO).
Going Concern
As disclosed in note 1 of the consolidated financial statements, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements as the Company expects to have access to adequate financial resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Ongoing Charges
In accordance with the recommended methodology set out by the AIC, the ongoing charges ratio of the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2016 was 0.87% (2015: 0.98%), excluding exceptional costs. No performance fees were charged during the year.
Supply of Information to the Board
The Board meetings are the principal source of regular information for the Board, enabling it to determine policy and to monitor performance 
and compliance. A representative of the Investment Adviser attends each Board meeting, thus enabling the Board to discuss fully and review 
the Company’s operations and performance. Each Director has direct access to the Company Secretary and may, at the expense of the 
Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
Delegation of Functions
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies the custodial services and the accounting and company secretarial requirements 
of the Company and some of its subsidiaries. Each of these contracts were entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality and 
cost of services offered.
Investment Adviser
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Company has appointed the Investment Adviser, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, 
subject to the overall control and supervision of the Board of the Company, to act as Investment Adviser.  
The Investment Adviser has no authority to act for or represent the Company (or any other member of the Group) in any other capacity.  
The appointment is on an exclusive basis.
The Investment Adviser is obliged to advise in respect of potential and actual investments of the Company in pursuit of the Company’s 
Investing Policy, subject to any applicable investment restrictions and having regard to any investment guidelines.
Subject to any applicable law, the Investment Adviser complies with all reasonable instructions issued by the Board (so long as these are not 
outside the Investing Policy as recorded in the admission document or contrary to the exclusivity of the Investment Adviser in relation to the 
Company’s investment activities). 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Investment Adviser is entitled to fees as approved by the Board, following recommendation by the Remuneration Committee of the 
Board. At quarterly Board meetings the Investment Adviser summarises its activities, proposals and achievements and the independent 
Directors review the performance of the Investment Adviser and the Executive Directors in relation thereto. Having considered the portfolio 
performance and investment strategy, the Board has agreed that the interests of the shareholders as a whole are best served by the 
continuing appointment of the Investment Adviser on the terms agreed.
Substantial Interests
At 31 December 2016, the following shareholders had substantial interests (more than 3%) in the issued share capital of the Company:
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital 
of the 
Company
Growthpoint Properties Ltd 24,300,000 26.9%
Ioannis Papalekas 23,277,101 25.7%
York Capital 17,020,326 18.8%
Oak Hill Advisors 10,169,574 11.2%
Gordel Holdings Limited 3,835,141 4.2%
Directors’ Interests
At 31 December 2016 and 2015, Directors held (either directly or through companies controlled by them) the following declarable interests in 
the Company:
Number of shares held Number of warrants held
2016 2015 2016 2015
Ioannis Papalekas 23,277,101 22,603,792 4,245,030 4,245,030
Dimitris Raptis 352,407 193,348 110,000 110,000
Geoff Miller 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000
Eli Alroy 398,814 358,814 260,000 260,000
John Whittle 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Akbar Rafiq – – – –
Alexis Atteslis – – – –
Andreea Petreanu – – – –
The Group has granted a number of warrants to Ioannis Papalekas (‘the Founder’), Dimitris Raptis, Geoff Miller, Eli Alroy and John Whittle. 
Pursuant to the warrant agreements, the warrants confer the right to subscribe, at the Placing Price, for a specific number of Ordinary shares. 
The warrants will vest and become exercisable when the market price of an Ordinary share, on a weighted average basis over 60 consecutive 
days, exceeds a specific target price. The warrants, subject to vesting, are exercisable in whole or in part during the period commencing on 
Admission and ending on the date falling 10 years from the date of Admission.
Founder Warrant Agreement
On 24 July 2013 the Company entered into a warrant agreement with Ioannis Papalekas and Zorviani Limited under which the Company 
agreed to issue at, and subject to, Admission to Zorviani Limited three tranches of warrants, each representing 5% of the aggregate of the 
Placing Shares and the Ordinary shares subscribed by Zorviani Limited (or other Founder companies), pursuant to the Founder Admission 
Subscription and the Founder Equity for Assets Subscriptions, subject to the market price per Ordinary share being at least €7.50, €10.00 and 
€12.50 (respectively) as a weighted average over a period of 60 consecutive days (each a ‘Market Price Vesting Threshold’). In each case, the 
subscription price will be €5.00.
Director Warrant Agreement
On 24 July 2013 the Company entered into a warrant agreement with Dimitris Raptis, Eli Alroy, Geoff Miller and John Whittle under which the 
Company agreed to issue to such persons at, and subject to, Admission, warrants over 110,000, 260,000, 11,000 and 9,000 (respectively) 
Ordinary shares, subject to the market price per Ordinary share being at least €7.50 as a weighted average over a period of 60 consecutive 
days (the ‘Market Price Vesting Threshold’). In each case, the subscription price will be €5.00.
Auditors
The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office. Accordingly, a resolution for their reappointment will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Power to Buy Back Shares
The Company has the power to buy back shares in the market, the renewal of which power is sought from shareholders on an annual basis at 
the AGM, and the Board considers on a regular basis the exercise of those powers. The Board did not consider it appropriate to exercise such 
powers during the year ended 31 December 2016. 106 107 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on 19 June 2017 at 10am British Summer Time at Ground Floor, Dorey Court, Admiral Park,  
St Peter Port, Guernsey.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations.
The Directors are required to prepare consolidated financial statements for each financial year in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS'), as adopted by the European Union (‘EU'), and applicable law.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs at the end of the year and of the 
profit or loss for that year.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 ¡ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 ¡ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 ¡ state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
consolidated financial statements; and
 ¡ prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy  
at any time, the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the 
Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008, as amended. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
 ¡ so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and each has 
taken all the steps he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information;
 ¡ these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and give a true and fair view  
of the financial position of the Group; and
 ¡ this Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board on 3 April 2017.
John Whittle
Director
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
CONTINUED
Composition of the Committee
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, the Remuneration Committee comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors:  
John Whittle (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee), Geoff Miller and Eli Alroy. On 27 February 2017 the composition of the 
Remuneration Committee changed pursuant to the new Articles of Association of the Company. John Whittle stepped down as  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Geoff Miller was appointed as its Chairman. At the same time Peter Fechter joined the  
Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has as its remit, amongst other matters, the determination and review of the fees payable to Globalworth 
Investment Adviser (‘GIAL'), the Company’s subsidiary, and the related emoluments of the Executive Directors and other senior executives  
of the Company who are preference shareholders of GIAL and the terms of any performance or incentive plans of the Investment Adviser, 
including the setting of performance thresholds, the allocation of any such entitlements as between shares and cash and the setting of any 
vesting periods (in each case, taking such independent advice as it considers appropriate in the circumstances). In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee prepares an Annual Report on the remuneration policies of the Company. The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors is a 
matter for the Board. No Director or Manager may be involved in any decisions as to his own emoluments.
The complete details of the Remuneration Committee’s formal duties and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which can be 
found on the Company’s website.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Directors’ emoluments comprise a fee or salary based compensation plus, in the case of the Executive Directors dividends in their capacity as 
preference shareholders of GIAL, all in accordance with the new fee arrangement plan for the Investment Adviser (the ‘Plan’), which was 
approved by the Company’s shareholders in November 2016. 
During the year ended 31 December 2016, four meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held. 
Directors’ Emoluments
The Directors’ emoluments during the year ended 31 December 2016 comprised a fixed level of salary and/or fees, plus dividends from GIAL 
in the case of the two Executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the emoluments of the Directors were as follows and refer to note 28 to the financial statements for 
other transactions with Directors:
Company Subsidiaries
1
Dividends
2
Total
3
 
emoluments Amounts in €‘000 Fees Fees Salary Total 
Ioannis Papalekas – – 871 871 1,400 2,271
Dimitris Raptis – – 150 150 600 750
Geoff Miller 150 30 – 30 – 180
Eli Alroy 200 – – – – 200
John Whittle 61 30 – 30 – 91
Akbar Rafiq – – – – – –
Alexis Atteslis – – – – – –
Andreea Petreanu 49 – – – – 49
 460 60 1,021 1,081 2,000 3,541
1 Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited (‘GIAL') and Aserat Properties SRL for Ioannis Papalekas, and GIAL for Dimitris Raptis.
2 The Executive Directors receive dividends in their capacity of preference shareholders of GIAL, the amount of which depends on the performance and 
profitability of GIAL. GIAL provides investment advisory services to the Company and is rewarded for the services it provides pursuant to the Investment 
Management Agreement signed on 24 July 2013, as amended from time to time (the ‘IMA'). For Ioannis Papalekas dividends include an accrual of €1.4 million 
(c.€0.27 million to be settled in cash and c.€1.13 million by the issuance of shares of the Company); and for Dimitris Raptis dividends include an accrual of €0.4 
million (c.€0.12 million to be settled in cash and c.€0.28 million by the issuance of shares of the Company).
3 The amounts indicated represent accrued amounts corresponding to the period during which the beneficiaries were members of the Board. Out of the amounts 
disclosed in the above table €1.8 million was payable to the Directors as of 31 December 2016. An additional amount of €5,729 was due to the Directors as of      
31 December 2016 for out-of-pocket expenses incurred, which was settled subsequent to 31 December 2016.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT 108 109 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the emoluments of the Directors were as follows:
Company Subsidiaries
1
Dividends
2
Amounts in €‘000 Fees Fees Salary Total
Total
3
 
emoluments
Ioannis Papalekas – – 575 575 2,500 3,075
Dimitris Raptis – – 150 150 725 875
Geoff Miller 70 35 – 35 – 105
Eli Alroy 200 – – – – 200
John Whittle 69 35 – 35 – 104
Akbar Rafiq – – – – – –
Alexis Atteslis – – – – – –
Andreea Petreanu 56 – – – – 56
395 70 725 795 3,225 4,415
1 Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited (‘GIAL') and Aserat Properties SRL for Ioannis Papalekas, and GIAL for Dimitris Raptis.
2 The Executive Directors receive dividends in their capacity of preference shareholders of GIAL, the amount of which depends on the performance and 
profitability of GIAL. GIAL provides investment advisory services to the Company and is rewarded for the services it provides pursuant to the Investment 
Management Agreement signed on 24 July 2013, as amended from time to time (the ‘IMA'). For Ioannis Papalekas dividends include an accrual of €2.5 million and 
for Dimitris Raptis dividends include an accrual of €0.575 million. Out of the amounts outstanding at 31 December 2015, €50,000 represent dividends declared 
and settled subsequent to 31 December 2015.
3 The amounts indicated represent accrued amounts corresponding to the period during which the beneficiaries were members of the Board. Out of the amounts 
disclosed in the above table €3.075 million was payable to the Directors as of 31 December 2015. An additional amount of €29,742 was due to the Directors  
as of 31 December 2015 for out-of-pocket expenses incurred. Out of the amounts due to the Directors at 31 December 2015, €50,000 was settled subsequent  
to 31 December 2015.
Founder and Director Warrant Agreements
Please refer to page 105 of the Annual Report for details on the Founder and Director Warrant Agreements concluded on 24 July 2013.
Performance Incentive Scheme
The Company, following approval from its shareholders in November 2016, has set up a performance incentive scheme for the Investment 
Adviser, applicable from 1 January 2016. The Plan comprises the following three main elements:
 ¡ a fixed annual fee which includes the payment of an amount by way of profit margin to the Investment Adviser for the relevant financial 
year;
 ¡ an annual incentive amount based on the achievement of targets set at the start of the relevant year; and
 ¡ a more long-term incentive fee, primarily based on achieving certain returns for shareholders..
Geoff Miller
Remuneration Committee Chairman
3 April 2017
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT  
CONTINUED
Introduction
We present below the Audit Committee (‘the Committee’) Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2016.
Structure and Composition
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Audit Committee 
comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors:  
John Whittle (Chairman of the Audit Committee), Geoff Miller  
and Andreea Petreanu. On 27 February 2017 the composition of  
the Audit Committee changed pursuant to the new Articles of 
Association of the Company and Geoff Miller stepped down as a 
member of the Committee. At the same time Richard van Vliet joined 
the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and the 
members are appointed by the Board, in consultation with the 
Chairman of the Committee. The Committee shall have a minimum of 
two members. All members of the Committee shall be independent 
Non-Executive Directors with relevant financial experience.
John Whittle’s profile and relevant experience is presented in the 
Board of Directors sub-section of the Annual Report (page 57).
Principal Duties of the Committee
The role of the Committee includes the following:
 ¡ Financial Reporting:
– monitoring the integrity of the consolidated financial 
statements and any formal announcements regarding financial 
performance;
– reviewing and reporting to the Board on the significant issues 
and judgements made in the preparation of the Group’s 
published financial statements, preliminary announcements 
and other financial information having regard to matters 
communicated by the independent auditors; and
– assessing whether the Annual Report and financial statements, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
 ¡ Controls and Safeguards:
– keeping under review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal controls and risk management systems; 
– reviewing the Company’s arrangements for its employees to 
raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in 
financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that these 
arrangements allow proportionate and independent 
investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action; 
and
– considering annually whether there is a need for the Company 
to have its own internal audit function.
 ¡ External Audit:
– reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process and 
the auditor’s independence; 
– considering and making recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, reappointment, replacement and remuneration 
of the Company’s independent auditor;
– developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of 
the external auditor to supply non-audit services; and
– reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed and 
making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The complete details of the Committee’s formal duties and 
responsibilities are set out in the Committee’s terms of reference, 
which can be found on the Company’s website.
Activities of the Committee
During the year ended 31 December 2016 and up to the date of this 
report the Committee has been active in the following areas, 
presented below under the three key areas of focus of financial 
reporting, controls and safeguards, and external audit:
Financial Reporting: 
 ¡ reviewed the Annual Report for the years ended 31 December 
2015 and 31 December 2016 prior to their approval by the Board; 
and
 ¡ reviewed the Interim Report and unaudited interim consolidated 
financial statements for the half year ended 30 June 2016 prior to 
their approval by the Board.
The Committee has had regular contact with management during the 
process of preparation of the Annual Report and consolidated 
financial statements and the auditor during the audit thereof. In 
planning its work and reviewing the audit plan with the auditor, the 
Committee took account of the most significant issues and risks, both 
operational and financial, likely to have an impact on the Group’s 
financial statements and selected the following as the most 
significant issues impacting the Company’s financial statements and 
Annual Report disclosures:
 ¡ investment property appraisal process;
 ¡ accounting for business acquisitions and disposals; 
 ¡ use of the going concern principle as a basis for preparation of the 
financial statements; 
 ¡ underlying cash flow projections and sensitivity analysis 
supporting the viability statement; and
 ¡ compliance with the fair, balanced and understandable principle.
Investment Property valuations
Valuations for investment property, property under construction and 
land bank are prepared by an external valuer, CBAR Research & 
Valuation Advisors SRL (‘Coldwell Banker’). The valuation of the 
investment property is inherently subjective, requiring significant 
estimates and assumptions by the valuer. Errors in the valuation could 
have a material impact on the Group’s net assets value. Further 
information about the portfolio and inputs to the valuations are set 
out in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Board and the Committee discuss the outcome of the valuation 
process and the details of each property on a semi-annual basis. The 
management liaise with valuers on a regular basis and meet them on 
a semi-annual basis prior to the finalisation of the portfolio valuation.
The external auditor has access to the external valuer and comments 
on the key assumptions used in the valuations performed and 
movements on property values. The Committee receives a detailed 
written report from Ernst & Young (‘EY') presented to the Committee 
upon finalisation of the audit fieldwork.
Accounting for Acquisitions and Disposals
The Committee notes that there is judgement involved in identifying 
and valuing the consideration given and the fair value of the assets 
acquired in a business combination, or in the acquisition of assets. 
The Committee also notes that there is judgement involved in the 
accounting for disposals, particularly around the valuation of the 
consideration receivable. However, during the year ended                  
31 December 2016 there were no new acquisitions and only a disposal 
of a subsidiary in Greece, in connection with which the Company 
recorded the related investment property under assets held for sale 
at 31 December 2015 at a carrying value equal to the disposal 
proceeds received. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 110 111 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOv ERNANCE
Going Concern Principle
The Committee has considered management’s assessment and 
conclusion of continuing to use the going concern assumption as a 
basis of preparation of the Company’s financial statements, as 
supported by detailed cash flow projections for the period up to  
30 June 2018 and supporting documentation. Following their review 
of the Management’s assessment, the Committee concurred with 
Management’s conclusion to continue using the going concern 
assumption as a basis of preparation of the Company’s financial 
statements. 
Underlying cash flow projections and sensitivity analysis 
supporting the viability statement
The Committee has considered management’s viability analysis, 
including the underlying cash flow projections for the three year 
period to 31 March 2020, sensitivity analysis, results and conclusion. 
Following their review of the viability analysis, the Committee 
concurred with Management’s conclusion as reflected in the viability 
statement on page 55.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Principle
The Committee has considered the Annual Report and financial 
statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, financial 
position, business model and strategy.
The Committee has reviewed the Company’s Annual Report and 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and has 
advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and provide the information necessary to assess the Company’s 
performance, operating model and strategy.
Controls and Safeguards:
 ¡ reviewed the risk matrix used to identify and monitor the 
significant risks encountered by the Group, as well as the analysis 
underlying the viability report;
 ¡ reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties identified by 
Management and the update thereof during 2016, presented on 
pages 50-54 of the Annual Report;
 ¡ performed an assessment of the internal controls of the Group 
and in particular the controls over the most significant financial 
reporting risks: 
– The Audit Committee reviewed the report on controls over 
identified significant financial reporting risks, prepared by 
Management and submitted to the Audit Committee by the 
Company’s Chief Financial Officer, and concluded that the 
related internal control environment is adequate considering 
the current size and activities of the Company and its 
subsidiaries; and 
 ¡ considered whether there is a need for an internal audit function: 
– The Committee does not consider at present to be a need for 
an internal audit function, given the size of the Group and the 
fact that its internal control procedures are still under 
development so as to align these to the level of continuous 
development of the Group’s activities.
External Audit:
Held regular meetings and discussions with the external auditor:
 ¡ The Chairman of the Committee held discussions with the auditor 
at the planning phase and at the end of the audit at the reporting 
stage, before the approval of the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements and Annual Report for the year ended           
31 December 2016.
 ¡ At the planning stage of the audit for the year ended 31 December 
2016, the Chairman of the Committee met the auditor in 
November 2016. During this meeting the draft audit plan was 
presented, reviewed and discussed, as well as a discussion held 
regarding the risks on which the audit would be focusing. The 
auditor explained that the risks the audit would focus on were the 
following:
– valuation of investment property whether in use or under 
development ;
– revenue recognition, lease incentives and other special  
clauses; and
– risk of misstatement due to fraud and error (associated to the 
significant risks).
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee met in March 2017 with 
the external auditor and discussed the findings from their audit of the 
draft Annual Report and their draft audit report for the year ended   
31 December 2016, prior to submission of the draft Annual Report to 
the Board for formal approval.
The Committee has met with the external auditor to discuss in detail 
the findings and recommendations based on their audit for the year 
ended 31 December 2016.
Assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditor:
Ernst & Young LLP has been appointed the Company’s independent 
auditor from the date of the initial listing on the AIM Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in July 2013.
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external Auditor, 
including rotation of the audit partner.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the 
independent audit of FTSE 350 companies is put out to tender every 
10 years. The Committee will continue to follow the developments 
around the Financial Reporting Council’s (‘FRC') related guidance on 
tendering at the appropriate time.
In addition, the external Auditor is required to rotate the audit 
partner responsible for the Group’s audit every five years.
The auditor has confirmed to the Audit Committee its independence 
of the Group.
The independence and objectivity of the independent auditor is 
reviewed by the Committee, which also reviews the terms under 
which the independent auditor is appointed to perform non-audit 
services, in accordance with the Company’s non-audit services policy 
which has been in effect since November 2015.
Services which are permissible in accordance with the auditor’s 
independence and other professional standards as well as the 
Company’s non-audit services policy, such as tax compliance, 
accounting and disclosure advice, special purpose audits,  
periodic reviews of financial information, and pre-acquisition  
due diligence reviews, are normally permitted to be performed  
by the independent auditor.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT  
CONTINUED
Audit Fees and Non-Audit Services
The table below summarises the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP and other entities of EY during the years ended 31 December 2016 and  
31 December 2015:
Audit fees €‘000 Non-audit fees €‘000
 2016 2015 2016 2015
Audit of financial statements 416 365 – –
Other assurance services – 41 – 11
Other non-audit services – – 276 302
 416 406 276 313
The Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit fees of the external auditor for the year ended 31 December 2016 and has considered that 
they are in line with the Group’s level of development and concluded that they relate to permissible non-audit services under the auditor’s 
independence and other related professional standards.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor and recommended its reappointment to the Board:
For the year ended 31 December 2016 the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors. This was facilitated through: the 
completion of a questionnaire by the relevant stakeholders (including members of the Committee and key financial management of the 
Group); interviews with finance staff; and a review of the audit plan and process for the year. The Committee has also reviewed and considered 
the findings of the latest Annual Audit Quality Inspection Report of the FRC for Ernst & Young LLP, dated May 2016. In addition, the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee discussed with the external auditor in March 2017 their preliminary findings on the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Audit Committee discussed with the external auditor in 
March 2017 their final findings on the audit of the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 
and their draft audit opinion thereon. 
Local statutory audits of individual subsidiary companies are also required in some jurisdictions in which the Group operates. EY Romania and 
EY Cyprus carry out these audits in Romania and Cyprus, respectively.
Following this review, the Committee recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as external auditors for the year 
ending 31 December 2017.
For any questions on the activities of the Committee not addressed in this report, a member of the Audit Committee remains available to 
attend each Annual General Meeting to respond to such questions..
John Whittle
Audit Committee Chairman
3 April 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
113 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 11 2 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 114
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 115
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 116
Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows 117
Section I: Basis of Preparation 118
Section II: Investment Property 119
Section III: Financial Results 123
Section IV: Financial Assets  
and Liabilities 128
Section V: Share Capital and  
Reserves 134
Section VI: Business Combinations  
and Related Disclosures 137
Section VII: Other Disclosures 139
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Globalworth  
Real Estate Investments Limited 143
Investing Policy 149
Schedule of Properties 150
Glossary 152
Company Directory 155 114 115 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Revenue 7 68,231 44,776
Operating expenses 8 (24,678) (16,406)
Net operating income 43,553 28,370
Administrative expenses 9 (7,707) (10,201)
Acquisition costs  (105) (811)
Fair value movement 3 6,710 49,422
Bargain purchase gain on acquisition of subsidiaries – 17,227
Gain on sale of subsidiary 25 272 –
Share-based payment expense 22 (14) (125)
Depreciation on other long-term assets (183) (174)
Other expenses (1,857) –
Other income 7 3,111 –
Foreign exchange loss (119) (249)
108 55,089
Profit before net financing cost 43,661 83,459
Net financing cost
– Finance cost 10 (32,222) (21,472)
– Finance income 749 526
(31,473) (20,946)
Profit before tax 12,188 62,513
Income tax expense 11 (873) (11,092)
Profit for the year 11,315 51,421
Other comprehensive income –   –
Attributable to equity holders of the Company 11,315 51,421
Cents Cents
Earnings per share
– Basic 12 17.57 92.01
– Diluted 12 17.56 92.01
EPRA earnings per share
– Basic 12 13.34 (9.41)
– Diluted 12 13.33 (9.41)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment property 3 980,892 937,119
Goodwill 24 12,349 12,349
Advances for investment property 5 2,454 3,993
Other long-term assets 722 661
Other receivables 17 1,183 2,193
Prepayments 1,022 1,020
998,622 957,335
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 10,807 13,114
Guarantees retained by tenants 277 79
Income tax receivable 411 583
Prepayments 348 1,638
Cash and cash equivalents 18 221,337 37,036
Investment property held for sale 25 –   10,353
233,180 62,803
Total assets 1,231,802 1,020,138
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Total equity 
Issued share capital 20 538,114 341,784
Unissued share capital 21 8,584 –
Share-based payment reserve 22 2,139 2,655
Retained earnings 166,557 155,242
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 715,394 499,681
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 15 375,570 261,287
Deferred tax liability 11 70,575 70,413
Guarantees retained from contractors 33 957
Finance lease liabilities  –   5
Deposits from tenants 2,261 1,485
Trade and other payables 16 2,188 3,278
450,627 337,425
Current liabilities 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 15 38,665 143,024
Guarantees retained from contractors 2,394 3,277
Trade and other payables 16 20,726 32,275
Other current financial liabilities 19 3,574 3,935
Finance lease liabilities 4 18
Deposits from tenants 374 428
Income tax payable 44 75
65,781 183,032
Total equity and liabilities 1,231,802 1,020,138
Cents Cents
NAV per share 13 791 798
Diluted NAV per share 13 782 798
EPRA NAV per share 13 857 908
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 April 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
John Whittle
Director 116 117 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Note
Issued
share
capital
€’000
Unissued
share 
capital
€’000
Share-
based
payment
reserve
€’000
Retained
earnings
€’000
Total
€’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
€’000
Total
equity
€’000
As at 1 January 2015 288,740 – 180 103,815 392,735 6 392,741
Shares issued for cash 53,830 – – – 53,830 – 53,830
Transaction costs on issue of shares (786) – – – (786) – (786)
Fair value of option warrants issued for executive share 
scheme – – 125 – 125 – 125
Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior 
management employees – – 2,350 – 2,350 – 2,350
Acquisition of minority interest – – – 6 6 (6) –
Profit for the year – – – 51,421 51,421 – 51,421
As at 31 December 2015 341,784 – 2,655 155,242 499,681 – 499,681
Shares issued for cash 20 200,000 – – – 200,000 – 200,000 
Transaction costs on issue of shares 20 (22,191) – – – (22,191) – (22,191)
Transaction costs on issue of shares settled in shares 20 8,584 – – – 8,584 – 8,584
Transaction costs on issue of shares to be settled in 
shares 21 – 8,584 – – 8,584 – 8,584
Fair value of option warrants issued for executive share 
scheme 22 – – 14 – 14 – 14
Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior 
management employees 22.2 – – 3,407 – 3,407 – 3,407
Shares issued to the Executive Directors and other senior 
management employees 20 3,937 – (3,937) – – – –
Shares issued for settlement of interest-bearing liability 20 6,000 – – – 6,000 – 6,000
Profit for the year – – – 11,315 11,315 – 11,315
As at 31 December 2016 538,114 8,584 2,139 166,557 715,394 – 715,394
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Profit before tax 12,188 62,513
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows
Fair value movement on investment property 3 (6,710) (49,422)
Bargain purchase gain on acquisition of subsidiaries – (17,227)
Loss on sale of investment property 1,421 –
Gain on sale of subsidiaries 25 (272) –
Share-based payment expense 22 14 125
Depreciation on other long-term assets 183 174
Net movement in provision for doubtful debts (98) –
Foreign exchange loss 119 249
Net financing costs 31,473 20,881
Operating profit before changes in working capital 38,318 17,293
Decrease in trade and other receivables 4,174 4,148
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other payables 1,364 (2,896)
Interest paid (23,171) (15,158)
Interest received 22 78
Income tax paid (795) (447)
Cash flows from operating activities 19,912 3,018
Investing activities
Expenditure on investment property under development (51,688) (69,729)
Payment for acquisition of subsidiaries less cash acquired 16 (1,894) (114,406)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary less cash disposed 25 11,000 –
Proceeds from sale of investment property 3,327 –
Acquisition of other long-term assets (244) (162)
Cash flows used in investing activities (39,499) (184,297)
Financing activities
Proceeds from share issuance 20 200,000 53,830 
Payment of transaction costs on issue of shares (1,099) (389)
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings
1
222,703 155,634
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (203,017) (15,095)
Payment of loan arrangement fees (5,543) (3,622)
Payment of other financing costs (6,127) –
Cash flows from financing activities 206,917 190,358
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 187,330 9,079
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 18 31,036 21,957 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
1
18 218,366 31,036
1 Net of the €2.9 million (2015: €6 million) cash reserve, see note 18. 118 119 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION II: INVESTMENT PROPERTY
This section focuses on the assets in the balance sheet of the Group which form the core of the Group’s business activities. This includes 
investment property and related disclosures on fair valuation inputs, advances for investment properties and commitments for future  
property developments. This section quantifies the property portfolio valuations and movements for the year. 
Further information about each property is described in the Portfolio review section on pages 64 to 99 of the Annual Report.
1. Basis of Preparation
Corporate Information
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited (‘the Company’) is a company with liability limited by shares and incorporated in Guernsey.  
The Group’s registered office address, corporate profile, principal activities and nature of its operations are set out on pages 4 and 155  
of the Annual Report. 
Basis of Preparation and Compliance
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS'),  
as adopted by the European Union (‘EU') and in compliance with the Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008, as amended.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. The Directors 
based their assessment on the Group’s detailed cash flow projections for the period up to 30 June 2018. These projections take into account 
the latest contracted rental income, anticipated additional rental income from new lease agreements to be concluded during the period 
covered by the projections, as well as contracted debt financing, CAPEX, and other commitments. The projections show that, in the period  
up to 30 June 2018, the Company has sufficient resources to continue to fund ongoing operations and asset development without the need  
to raise any additional debt or equity financing or the need to reschedule existing debt facilities or other commitments. 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment property and derivatives which are 
measured at fair value. The significant accounting policies adopted are set out in the relevant notes to the financial statements and consistently 
applied throughout the periods presented except for the new and amended IFRS, see note 29, which were adopted on 1 January 2016. These 
consolidated financial statements are prepared in Euro (‘EUR' or ‘€’), rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated, being the 
functional currency and presentation currency of the Company. 
Basis of Consolidation
These consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) at 31 December. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated (refer to note 26) from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control (refer to 
note 26), and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared 
for the period from the date of obtaining control to 31 December, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions 
and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated in full. Non-controlling interests represent the portion 
of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the income statement and within equity in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, separately from net assets and profit and loss attributable to equity holders of the Company.
Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances
Foreign currency transactions during the year are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rates approximating those ruling 
on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than the Group’s functional currency 
are retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the statement of financial position date. Gains and losses on translation are taken to 
profit and loss. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates 
as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the date when the fair value was determined. 
2. Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect reported amounts of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures and the disclosures 
of contingent liabilities. 
Selection of Functional Currency 
The Company and its subsidiaries used their judgement, based on the criteria outlined in IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchanges 
Rates, and determined that the functional currency of all the entities is the EUR. 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the entity operates. Consideration in determining the functional currency is given to the denomination of the major cash flows of the entity 
e.g. revenues and financing. As a consequence, the Company uses the EUR as the functional currency, rather than the local currency (RON) for the 
subsidiaries incorporated in Romania, and Pounds Sterling (‘GBP') for the Company and the subsidiary incorporated in Guernsey. 
Further additional critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in the following notes to the financial statements: 
 ¡ Investment Property, see note 3 and Fair value measurement and related estimate and judgements, see note 4
 ¡ Commitments (operating leases commitments – Group as lessor), see note 6
 ¡ Taxation, see note 11
 ¡ Trade and other receivables, see note 17
 ¡ Goodwill, see note 24
 ¡ Investment in subsidiaries, see note 26
3. Investment Property
Policy
Investment property comprises completed property, property under construction that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both,  
and land bank for further development. Investment properties are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. Transaction costs include 
transfer taxes and professional fees for legal services to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating. 
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation methods such as discounted cash flow 
projections and recent market comparables adjusted, if necessary, for differences in the nature, location or condition of the specific asset. 
Investment property under construction is measured at fair value, if the fair value is considered to be reliably determinable. Investment 
properties under construction for which the fair value cannot be determined reliably, but for which the Group expects that the fair value of  
the property will be reliably determinable when construction is completed, are measured at cost less impairment until the fair value becomes 
reliably determinable or construction is completed – whichever is earlier. 
Valuations are performed as of the statement of financial position date by professional valuers, who hold recognised and relevant professional 
qualifications and have recent experience in the location and category of the investment property being valued. This value corresponds to the 
price that a third-party investor would be disposed to pay in order to acquire each of the properties making up the portfolio of assets and in 
order to benefit from their rental income.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profit or loss for the year in which they arise.  
In order to avoid double accounting, the assessed fair value is reduced by the carrying amount of any accrued income (if any outstanding  
at the statement of financial position date) resulting from the spreading of lease incentives and/or minimum lease payments.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated  
with the expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are 
expensed when incurred. When part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. 
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset would result in either gains or losses at the retirement or disposal of investment property. 
Completed
investment
property
€’000
Investment
property
under
development
€’000
Land bank
for further
development
€’000
Total
€’000
1 January 2015 460,010 91,387 47,860 599,257
Business acquisitions 209,800 – – 209,800
Transfer to investment property under development – 29,800 (29,800) –
Subsequent expenditure 4,421 66,170 68 70,659
Other operating lease commitment – 6,021 – 6,021
Capitalised borrowing costs – 3,115 – 3,115
Disposal during the year (1,155) – – (1,155)
Fair value movement on investment property (3,675) 53,025 72 49,422
Transfer to completed investment property 27,000 (27,000) – –
31 December 2015 696,401 222,518 18,200 937,119
1 January 2016
Subsequent expenditure 22,908 19,776 4 42,688
Other operating lease commitment 3,371  (6,021) – (2,650)
Capitalised borrowing costs – 2,073 – 2,073
Disposal during the year (5,048) – – (5,048)
Fair value movement on investment property (6,510) 13,374 (154) 6,710
Transfer to completed investment property 180,600 (180,600) – –
31 December 2016 891,722 71,120 18,050 980,892
Judgement Used in the Classification of Investment Property
Investment property comprises completed property, property under construction and land bank for further development which are not 
occupied substantially for use by, or in the operations of, the Group, nor for sale in the ordinary course of business, but are held primarily to 
earn rental income and for capital appreciation. The Group considers that, when the property is in a condition which will allow the generation 
of cash flows from its rental, the property is no longer a property under development or refurbishment but an investment property. If the 
property is kept for sale in the ordinary course of business then it is classified as inventory property.
3.1 Other operating lease commitment
Other operating lease commitment of €3.4 million (2015: €6.0 million) as of 31 December 2016 (a similar corresponding amount was recorded in 
trade and other payables as payables for tenant lease incentives, see note 16) represents the Group’s estimated net cost for undertaking 
existing operating leases in properties owned by third parties, as well as for the commitment to undertake additional operating lease expense, 
under certain conditions, related to one of the Group’s tenants. The net cost is estimated by deducting from the operating lease expenses the 
revenues from sub-letting the respective properties to third parties selected by the Group, for the unexpired portion of their leases.
SECTION I: BASIS OF PREPARATION
This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting 
policies and related management’s estimates, judgements and assumptions in application of those policies specific to one note are included 
with that note. Accounting policies relating to non-material items are not included in these financial statements. 120 121 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION II: INVESTMENT PROPERTY  
CONTINUED
4. Fair Value Measurement and Related Estimates and Judgements
Policy
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 ¡ Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
 ¡ Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
 ¡ Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
The Group measures non-financial assets such as investment properties at fair value (recurring) at each statement of financial position date 
and for financial liabilities such as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, 
the fair value is disclosed. 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. 
Investment Property Measured at Fair value
The Group’s investment properties were valued by CBAR Research & Valuation Advisors SRL (“Coldwell Banker”), independent professionally 
qualified valuers who hold a recognised relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the locations and segments of the 
investment properties valued, using recognised valuation techniques.
Our Property valuation Approach and Process
The Group’s investment department includes a team that reviews the valuations performed by the independent valuers for financial reporting 
purposes. This team reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO'), the Chief Investment Officer (‘CIO') and the Chief Executive Officer 
(‘CEO'). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the CFO, CIO, CEO, the valuation team and the independent valuers 
twice in a financial year. 
For each independent valuation performed, the investment team, along with the finance team:
 ¡ verifies all major inputs to the independent valuation report; 
 ¡ assesses property valuation movements when compared to the initial valuation report at acquisition or latest period end valuation report; and
 ¡ holds discussions with the independent valuer. 
The fair value hierarchy levels are specified in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. Some of the inputs to the valuations are 
defined as “unobservable” by IFRS 13 and these are analysed in the tables below. Any change in valuation technique or fair value hierarchy 
(between Level 1, 2 and Level 3) is analysed at each reporting date or as of the date of the event or variation in the circumstances that caused 
the change. During the year there were no transfers between fair value hierarchy levels.
valuation Techniques, Key Inputs and Underlying Management’s Estimations and Assumptions
As noted under subsection Investment Property Valuations of the Audit Committee Report on page 109 of the Annual Report, property 
valuations are inherently subjective as they are made on the basis of assumptions made by the valuer which may not prove to be accurate. 
Valuation techniques comprise the discounted cash flow, the sales comparison approach and residual value method. The key assumptions 
concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and 
assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the 
Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Key information about fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) are disclosed below:
Class of property
Carrying value Range
2016
€’000
2015
€’000 Valuation technique
Fair value
hierarchy Input 2016 2015
Completed investment 
property
790,511 589,060 Discounted cash flow Level 3 Rental value (sqm) €2.77–€65 €2.77–€65
Discount rate 7.10%–9.70% 7.30%–9.00%
Exit yield 6.65%–9.20% 6.65%–8.75%
101,211 107,341 Sales comparison Level 3 Sales value (sqm) €1,192 €1,190
891,722 696,401
Investment property under 
development
71,120 222,518 Residual method Level 3 Rental value (sqm) €3.33–€17.00 €12.50–€35.00
Discount rate 8.00%–9.00% 7.40%–8.50%
Exit yield 7.25%–8.75% 7.00%–7.25%
Capex (€m) €19.4 €53.6
Land bank – for further 
development
18,050 18,200 Sales comparison Level 3 Sales value (sqm) €1,819–
€1,864
€1,833–€1,872
TOTAL 980,892 937,119
The fair value movement on investment property recognised, as gain, in the income statement includes an amount of €6.7 million  
(2015: €49.4 million) for fair value measurements as of the statement of financial position date related to investment properties categorised 
within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at estimates of market values as at 31 December 2016 and 2015, the independent valuation 
experts used their market knowledge and professional judgement and did not rely solely on historical transactional comparables. In these 
circumstances, there was a greater degree of uncertainty in estimating the market values of investment properties than would have existed  
in a more active market. 
Sensitivity Analysis on Significant Inputs
The assumptions on which the Property Valuation Reports have been based include, but are not limited to, rental value per sqm, discount rate, 
exit yield, cost to complete, comparable market transactions for land bank for further development, tenant profile for the rented properties, 
and the present condition of the properties. These assumptions are market standard and in line with the International Valuation Standards 
(‘IVS'). Generally, a change in the assumption made for the rental value (per sqm per annum) is accompanied by a similar change in the rent 
growth per annum and discount rate (and exit yield) and an opposite change in the other inputs. 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis, in isolation, of the most sensitive inputs used in the independent valuations performed, as of the statement 
of financial position date, are set out below:
€0.5 change in rental value 
per month, per sqm
25 bps change in market 
yield 5% change in Capex
€50 (2015:€25) change in 
sales prices per sqm
2.5% change in vacancy in 
perpetuity
Investment 
Property Year
Increase
€’000
Decrease
€’000
Increase
€’000
Decrease
€’000
Increase
€’000
Decrease
€’000
Increase
€’000
Decrease
€’000
Increase
€’000
Decrease
€’000
– completed 2016 26,640 (26,750) (19,310) 20,470 – – 2,251 (2,250) (15,460) 14,980
2015 21,330 (21,320) (14,150) 15,080 – – 1,940 (1,937) (11,730) 10,620
– under 
development 2016 5,460 (5,460) (4,290) 4,630 (3,200) 3,200 – – (3,210) 2,990
2015 9,720 (9,520) (8,560) 9,390 (4,439) 4,439 – – (7,160) 6,310
– further 
development 2016 – – – – – – 500 (480) – –
2015 – – – – – – 450 (530) – –
Other Disclosures Related to Investment Property
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are secured on investment property, see note 15 for details. Further information about individual 
properties is disclosed in the Portfolio Review section on pages 64 to 99 of the Annual Report. 122 123 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION II: INVESTMENT PROPERTY  
CONTINUED
SECTION III: FINANCIAL RESULTS
This section includes the results and performance of the Group, including the net asset value and EPRA net asset value. This section also 
includes details of the Group’s tax credits in the year and deferred tax assets and liabilities held at the year end.
The section quantifies the financial impact of the operations for the year; further analysis on operations is described in the Financial Review 
section on page 38 of the Annual Report.
5. Advances for Investment Property
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Advances for land and other property acquisitions 2,000 2,000
Advances to contractors for investment properties under development 454 1,993
2,454 3,993
6. Commitments
Commitments for Investment Property Under Construction 
As at 31 December 2016 the Group had agreed construction contracts with third parties and is consequently committed to future capital 
expenditure in respect of investment property completed €1.0 million (2015: €nil), investment property under construction of €37.1 million  
(2015: €32.0 million), and had committed with tenants to incur fit-out works of €1.1 million (2015: €1.6 million).
Operating Leases Commitments – Group as Lessor
Policy
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether 
fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if 
that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of 
ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases; see note 7 for policies on revenue recognition for properties under operating leases 
and related costs. 
Judgements Made for Properties Under Operating Leases
The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, that it retains all the significant risks  
and rewards of ownership of the investment properties leased to third parties, therefore, accounts for these leases as operating leases.  
The duration of these leases is one year or more (2015: one year or more) and rentals are subject to annual upward revisions based on the 
consumer price index. 
The future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Not later than 1 year 47,335 35,100
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 179,354 162,200
Later than 5 years 94,156 109,200
 320,845 306,500
7. Revenue 
Policy
a) Rental Income 
Rental income is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, except for contingent rental income which is 
recognised when it arises. The value of rent-free periods and all similar lease incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease unless another systematic basis 
is more representative of the time pattern in which the benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished. If the annual lease rent increases as 
a result of a price index to cover inflationary cost, then the policy is not to spread the amounts but to recognise them when the increase takes 
place (applied prospectively when the right to receive it arises). The amount received from tenants to terminate non-cancellable operating 
leases are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the right to receive them arise.
b) Service Charge Income
Income arising from service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants is recognised in the period in which the compensation becomes 
receivable. 
c) Rendering of Services 
Revenue from property and asset management fees is recognised at the time the service is provided. Revenue from rendering property 
development services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion.
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Rental income 46,166 30,921
Service charge income 14,825 10,814
Property development services 7,240 3,041
 68,231 44,776
The total contingent rents recognised as income during the year amount to €0.1 million (2015: €0.1 million).
In order to determine if the Group is acting as principal or agent, it assesses the primary responsibility for providing the goods or services, 
inventory risk, discretion in establishing prices, and who bears the credit risk. The Group has concluded that it is acting as a principal in all of 
the above-mentioned revenue arrangements.
Other income
It mainly refers to the execution of bank guarantee letters held from tenants under opearting lease commitments. 
8. Operating Expenses
Policy
a) Service Costs
Service costs paid, as well as those borne on behalf of the tenants, are included under direct property expenses. Reclaiming them from 
tenants is presented separately under revenue. 
b) Works Carried Out on Properties
Works carried out which are the responsibility of the building’s owner and which do not add any extra functionality to, or enhance significantly, 
the standard of comfort of the building are considered as current expenditure for the period and recorded in the income statement as expenses. 
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Property management, utilities and insurance 17,331 14,002
Property development services costs 6,848 2,009
Property maintenance costs and other non-recoverable costs 499 395
 24,678 16,406
Operating expenses analysis by revenue and non-revenue generating properties
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Property expenses arising from investment property that generate rental income 17,712 14,057
Property expenses arising from investment property that did not generate rental income 118 340
Property development services costs 6,848 2,009
 24,678 16,406 124 125 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION III: FINANCIAL RESULTS  
CONTINUED
9. Administrative Expenses
Policy
Administrative expenses are expensed as incurred with the exception of expenditure on long-term developments, see note 3.  
Subsidiary acquisition costs are presented separately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Directors’ emoluments (pages 107-108 )
1
 2,056 4,441
Salaries and wages
1
 3,048 3,240
Accounting, secretarial and administration costs 377 276
Legal and other advisory services 261 294
Audit and non-audit services (page 111) 777 713
Corporate social responsibility costs 357 151
Travel and accommodation 118 237
Marketing and advertising services 217 465
Post, telecommunication and office supplies 177 92
Stock exchange expenses 319 292
7,707 10,201
1  Costs of €1 million (2015: €0.4 million) associated with the team of Executive Directors and other employees who worked on development projects were 
capitalised in line with the progress made on the properties under development during the year. In addition, €0.5 million (2015: €nil) was capitalised as debt issue 
costs and €0.4 million (2015: €nil) as transaction costs on issue of shares.
 During the year, the Group contributed €0.3 million (2015: €0.2 million) and €0.1 million (2015: €0.1 million) to the mandatory Government Pension Fund of the 
employees and key management of the Group, respectively.
10. Finance Cost
Policy
Borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on properties under development or undergoing major refurbishment are capitalised. 
Where borrowings are associated with specific developments, the amount capitalised is the gross interest less finance income (if any) incurred 
on those borrowings. Interest is capitalised as from the commencement of the development work until the date of practical completion. 
Arrangement fees are amortised over the term of the borrowing facility. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which 
they occur.
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Interest on secured loans 18,640 11,551
Interest on Corporate Loan facility 4,453 5,609
Debt issue cost amortisation and other finance cost 8,421 4,045
Other financial expenses 584 202
Bank charges
1
124 65
32,222 21,472
1  Prior year bank charges were classified under Administrative Expenses.
11. Taxation
Policy
Current Income Tax
Current income tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates applicable at the statement of financial position date. 
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the 
income statement in the period in which the determination is made. Tax is included in the income statement except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognised in equity.
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements at the income tax rate applicable at the reporting date, with the following exceptions:
 ¡ where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset, or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
 ¡ deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is foreseeable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised; and
 ¡ in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally 
enforceable right exists to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and 
the same taxation authority.
Income tax expense
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Current income tax expense 711 245
Deferred income tax expense 162 10,847
873 11,092
The Company has obtained an exempt company status in Guernsey under the terms of the Income Tax (Exempt Bodies) Ordinance, 1989.  
The Directors intend to conduct the Company’s affairs so that it remains eligible for exemption. The subsidiaries in Romania, the Netherlands 
and Cyprus are subject to income taxes in respect of local sources of income. The income tax rate applicable to the Company in Guernsey is 
nil. The current income tax charge of €0.7 million (2015: €0.2 million) represents tax charges on profit arising in the subsidiaries in Romania and 
Cyprus (2015: Romania, the Netherlands and Cyprus). Tax charges on profit arising in Romania, the Netherlands and Cyprus are subject to 
corporate income tax at the rate of 16%, 25% (20% for tax on profit up to €0.2 million), and 12.5%, respectively. 
The Group’s subsidiaries registered in Cyprus and the Netherlands need to comply with the Cyprus and Netherlands tax regulations; however, 
the Group does not expect any taxable income, other than dividend and interest income, which are the most significant future sources of 
income of the Group companies registered in these countries. Dividend income is exempt or taxed at 0% in Cyprus and the Netherlands, 
respectively; however, interest income is subject to corporate income tax at the rate of 12.5% in Cyprus and ranges from 20% to 25%, 
depending on total taxable profit (20% for tax on profit up to €0.2 million), in the Netherlands. 
Judgements and Assumptions Used in the Computation of Current Income Tax Liability
Uncertainties exist, particularly in Romania where the Group has significant operations, with respect to the interpretation of complex tax 
regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Differences arising between the actual results and  
the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already 
recorded. Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective 
company’s domicile. In Romania, the tax position is open to further verification for five years and no subsidiary in Romania has had a corporate 
income tax audit in the last five years.
Reconciliation Between Applicable and Effective Tax Rate
The reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Company’s income tax rate for the year ended  
31 December 2016 and the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows:
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Profit before tax 12,188 62,513
At Company’s income tax rate 0% (2015: 0%) – –
Effect of higher tax rates in foreign jurisdictions
Tax in Romania 
 – Corporate income tax 644 202
 – Deferred tax expenses for taxable temporary differences 162 10,847
Tax in Cyprus
 – Corporate income tax 67 12
Tax in the Netherlands
 – Corporate income tax – 31
Tax expense reported in the income statement 873 11,092
Effective tax rate, including deferred tax expenses (%) 7.2% 17.7%
Effective tax rate, excluding deferred tax expenses (%) 6.0% 0.3%
Consolidated statement  
of financial position
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
Deferred Tax Liability
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Acquired under business combinations:
– 12,456 – –
 Recognised unused tax losses – (50) – –
 Deferred tax liability – 12,506 – –
Valuation of investment property at fair value 77,121 60,003 3,876 11,611
Deductible temporary differences (288) (467) 179 (6)
Discounting of tenant deposits and long-term deferred costs 311 164 147 (84)
Share issue cost recognised in equity (7) (7) – –
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value (572) 110 53 110
Recognised unused tax losses (5,990) (1,846) (4,093) (784)
70,575 70,413 162 10,847 126 127 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION III: FINANCIAL RESULTS  
CONTINUED
11. Taxation continued
In Romania, the Group has unused assessed tax losses carried forward of €73.5 million (2015: €68.3 million) that are available for offsetting 
against future taxable profits of the respective entity in Romania, in which the losses arose, within seven years from the year of origination.  
As of the statement of financial position date the Group had recognised deferred tax assets of €5.9 million (2015: €1.9 million) out of the total 
available deferred tax assets of €11.8 million (2015: €10.9 million) calculated at the corporate income tax rate of 16%.
Expiry year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 TOTAL
Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Available deferred tax assets (€m) 0.7 0.5 2.0 2.0 1.5 3.3 1.8 11.8
There are also temporary non-deductible interest expenses and net foreign exchange losses related to intercompany loans of €11.2 million 
(2015: €21.8 million). Such amounts can be carried forward indefinitely, until the corresponding subsidiaries reach a debt-to-equity tax ratio  
in the range from nil to 3, at which time the amount would become tax deductible, for which no deferred tax asset was recorded as well.
Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions Used for Assessed Tax Losses and Related Deferred Tax Assets
At each statement of financial position date, the Group assesses whether the realisation of future tax benefits is sufficiently probable to 
recognise deferred tax assets. This assessment requires the exercise of judgement on the part of management with respect to, among other 
things, benefits that could be realised from available tax strategies and future taxable income, as well as other positive and negative factors. 
Based on the above assessment performed at year end, the Group recognised an additional €4.0 million (2015: €1.0 million) deferred tax asset 
due to improved forecasts and transformation of some subsidiaries in Romania in taxable profit position.
The recorded amount of total deferred tax assets could be reduced if estimates of projected future taxable income and benefits from 
available tax strategies are lowered, or if changes in current tax regulations are enacted that impose restrictions on the timing or extent of the 
Group’s ability to utilise future tax benefits.
12. Earnings Per Share 
The following table reflects the data used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share and number of shares used in the basic 
and diluted NAV and EPRA NAV per share:
Date Event Note
Number of 
shares issued
(‘000’)
% of the 
period
Weighted 
average
(‘000’)
2015 At the beginning of the year 53,645 100 53,645
October 2015 Shares issued for cash 8,972 25.0 2,243
2015 Shares in issue at year end (basic and diluted) 62,617 55,888
2016 At the beginning of the year 62,617 62,617
Shares issued for:
January 2016 – the Executive Directors and other senior management employees 22.2 407 93.4 380
June 2016 – settlement of interest-bearing liability 20.1 1,000 56.4 564
October 2016 – the Executive Directors and other senior management employees 22.2 270 22.5 61
December 2016 – cash 20.2 25,000 3.0 753
December 2016 – transaction costs on issue of shares 20.2 1,073 3.0 32
December 2016 – the Executive Directors and other senior management employees 22.2 30 2.0 1
2016 Shares in issue at year end (basic) 90,397   64,408
December 2016 Shares to be issued for transaction costs on issue of shares 21 1,073  3.0  32
2016 Shares in issue at year end (diluted)   91,470   64,440
IFRS Earnings Per Share
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic and diluted earnings per share 11,315 51,421
IFRS earnings per share cents cents
– Basic 17.57 92.01
– Diluted 17.56 92.01
Subsequent to 31 December 2016, no shares were issued.
EPRA Earnings Per Share
The following table reflects the reconciliation between earnings as per the Statement of comprehensive income and EPRA earnings:
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company (IFRS) 11,315 51,421
Fair value movement (6,710) (49,422)
Losses on disposal of investment properties 1,657 619
Tax credit relating to losses on disposals (265) (99)
Bargain purchase gain on acquisition of subsidiaries – (17,227)
Changes in fair value of financial instruments and associated close-out costs 1,522 872
Acquisition costs 105 811
Deferred tax charge in respect of above adjustments 969 7,768
EPRA earnings 8,593 (5,257)
EPRA earnings per share cents cents
– Basic 13.34 (9.41)
– Diluted 13.33 (9.41)
13. Net Asset Value (‘NAV') Per Share
NAv Per Share
The following reflects the net assets used in the NAV per share computations:
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Company 715,394 499,681
Cents Cents
NAV per share 791 798
Diluted NAV per share 782 798
EPRA NAV Per Share
The following reflects the net assets used in the EPRA NAV per share computations:
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Company 715,394 499,681
Exclude:
Deferred tax liability 11 70,575 70,413
Fair value of interest rate swap instrument 19 3,574 3,935
Goodwill as a result of deferred tax (5,697) (5,697)
EPRA NAV attributable to equity holders of the Company 783,846 568,332
Cents Cents
EPRA NAV per share 857 908
EPRA NAV includes properties and other investment interests at fair value and excludes certain items not expected to crystallise in a 
long-term investment property business model. 128 129 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION IV: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
This section focuses on financial instruments, together with the working capital position of the Group and financial risk management of the 
risks that the Group is exposed to at year end.
14. Financial Instruments
Policy
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another 
entity. Financial instruments are recognised on the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual obligations of the 
instrument. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and financial liabilities at initial recognition. 
Initially, financial instruments are recognised at their fair value. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 
instruments are only recognised in determining the carrying amount, if the financial instruments are not measured at fair value through profit 
or loss. Subsequently, financial instruments are measured according to the category to which they are assigned.
A financial asset and a financial liability is offset and the net amount is reported in the statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group 
has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.
Financial Assets
Financial assets of the Group mainly include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and guarantees retained by tenants. 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when the rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed 
an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and either:      
(a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk 
of change in value. Such investment includes cash in hand and cash balances at banks and short-term bank deposits with maturity of three 
months or less.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost including, where relevant and material,  
an adjustment for the time value of money, less any impairment provision. A provision for impairment is established where there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables concerned. 
If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the provision for impairment loss changes because of an event occurring after the impairment was 
recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is increased or reduced by recording a gain or loss in the income statement. 
Trade and other receivables together with the associated provision are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and  
all collateral has been realised or has been transferred to the Group. If collection is expected in more than one year, they are classified as 
non-current assets.
Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities of the Group mainly comprise interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, guarantees retained from 
contractors, finance lease payables, other derivative financial liabilities and tenant security deposits.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. The calculation takes into 
account any premium or discount on acquisition and includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is 
positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are offset only if  
the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.  
Fair value movements on derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss account are recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
15. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings
This note describes information on the material contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information 
about the Group’s exposure to market risk, currency risk and liquidity risks, see note 19.
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Current
Current portion of secured loans 38,665 42,681
Corporate loan facility – 100,343
38,665 143,024
Non-current
Secured loans 375,570 261,287
414,235 404,311
Terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
2016 2015
Secured facility 
Contract
date Currency Nominal interest rate Maturity date
Face value
€’000
Carrying
value
€’000
Face value
€’000
Carrying
value
€’000
Loan 3 Nov 2013 RON ROBOR 3M+ margin Feb 2016 – – 423 423
Loan 6 Mar 2013 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Mar 2019 12,718 12,187 13,768 13,518
Loan 7 Aug 2008 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Dec 2016 – – 30,000 29,938
Loan 8 May 2008 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Dec 2018 32,732 32,732 33,626 33,626
Loan 9 May 2008 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Dec 2018 80,611 80,611 82,505 82,505
Loan 11 Sep 2014 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Oct 2032 27,347 26,944 25,317 24,909
Loan 13 Jun 2015 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Jun 2022 – – 7,885 7,660
Loan 14 Jun 2015 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Jun 2022 – – 8,905 8,905
Loan 15 Aug 2008 EUR EURIBOR 1M+ margin Dec 2017 27,510 27,510 28,398 28,398
Loan 16 Mar 2010 EUR EURIBOR 1M+ margin Jun 2022 20,507 20,507 21,907 21,907
Loan 17 Mar 2010 RON ROBOR 1M+ margin Apr 2019 572 572 718 718
Loan 18 Aug 2015 RON ROBOR 3M+ margin Aug 2018 4,739 4,739 4,872 4,845
Loan 19 Jun 2015 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Jul 2035 – – 27,165 26,849
Loan 20 Dec 2015 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Dec 2030 – – 20,022 19,767
Corporate Loan Jun 2015 EUR Fixed rate Jul 2016 – – 103,067 100,343
Loan 21 Mar 2016 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Mar 2031 25,949 25,434 – –
Loan 22 May 2016 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Nov 2026 10,300 10,300 – –
Loan 23 May 2016 EUR Fixed rate Jun 2019 178,607 170,499 – –
Loan 24 Dec 2016 EUR EURIBOR 3M+ margin Dec 2026 2,200 2,200 – –
Total 423,792 414,235 408,578 404,311
 
On 9 March 2016, the Group signed a c.€29.1 million long-term debt facility (Loan 21) agreement with Banca Comerciala Romana (‘BCR') in 
Romania (Erste Bank Group) in order to refinance the existing secured loan facilities (Loans 13 and 14) related to the TAP light-industrial park in 
Timisoara, and to fund the development of an extension to this property. This facility is secured on the TAP property and matures in year 2031. 
On 19 May 2016, the Group signed a €10.3 million long-term debt facility (Loan 22) agreement with Garanti Bank in Romania in order to 
refinance equity and to fund the remaining development costs of the Gara Herastrau office building. This facility is secured on the land and 
completed building and matures in year 2026. In December 2016, the facility was supplemented with an additional €2.2 million.
The Group secured a €180 million three-year bond (the ‘Matisse Facility’, Loan 23). The facility was provided by Matisse Funding B.V. (an 
orphan SPV) which issued €180 million of senior secured Notes to institutional investors. The proceeds of such issuance were on-lent to the 
Group in order to refinance the €100 million short-term corporate level facility obtained in 2015 from funds managed by York Capital and  
Oak Hill Advisors and three secured debt facilities at the level of three of its Romanian subsidiaries. The Matisse facility is secured on the 
properties of four Romanian subsidiaries as well as the shares of their holding companies. Drawdown under the facility was completed in  
June 2016.
Secured bank loans are secured by investment properties with a carrying value of €902.0 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: €692.0 million)  
and also carry pledges on rent receivable balances of €6.1 million (2015: €3.0 million), tenant deposits of €2.6 million (2015: €1.9 million), VAT 
receivable balances of €0.4 million (2015: €3.3 million) and a moveable charge on the bank accounts (see note 18). 
Other Disclosures
The loans are subject to certain financial covenants, which are calculated based on the individual financial statements of the respective 
subsidiaries and of the Group. The Group is in compliance with all financial covenants and there were no defaults for payments during the year 
2016. Financial covenants mainly include the loan-to-value ratio (“LTV”) which ranges from 50% - 83% and the debt service cover ratio (‘DSCR') 
that ranges from 100% - 125%. LTV is calculated as the loan value divided by the market value of the relevant property (for a calculation date), 
and DSCR (historical and/or projected, as the case may be, for a 12-month period) is calculated as net operating income divided by the debt 
service. As of 31 December 2016, the Group had undrawn borrowing facilities of €2.5 million (2015: €2.0 million). 130 131 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION IV: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES  
CONTINUED
16. Trade and Other Payables
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Current
Payable for property service charges 1,415 2,358
Payable to suppliers for properties under development 7,371 12,263
Payable for tenant lease incentives 3.1 1,183 2,743
Consideration payable for business acquisition – 1,894
Advances from customers 1,161 625
Deferred income 4,553 3,381
Directors’ emoluments payable 396 3,650
Salaries and related payables 418 915
Accruals for administrative expenses 1,129 776
Accruals for non-recurring costs 2,806 1,939
Other taxes payable 294 588
Other short-term payables – 1,143
20,726 32,275
Non-current
Payable for tenant lease incentives 3.1 2,188 3,278
22,915 35,553
17. Trade and Other Receivables 
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Current
Rent and service charges receivable 6,209 3,399
VAT and other taxes receivable 3,987 8,045
Loan receivable from subsidiary disposed – 400
Consideration receivable from the seller 290 290
Advances to suppliers for services 211 184
Advances to Directors – 650
Sundry debtors 110 146
10,807 13,114
Non-current
VAT and other taxes receivable 1,183 2,193
11,990 15,307
Rent and Service Charges Receivable 
Rent and service charges receivable are non-interest-bearing and are typically due within 30-90 days (see more information on credit risk and 
currency profile in note 19). For the terms and conditions for related party receivables, see note 28. 
18. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Cash at bank and in hand 217,467 25,778
Short-term deposits 899 5,258
Cash and cash equivalents as per statement of cash flows 218,366 31,036
Corporate Loan - restricted cash reserve – 6,000
Matisse Facility - restricted cash reserve 15 2,971 –
Cash and cash equivalents as per statement of financial position 221,337 37,036
Details of cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are disclosed in note 19.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at rates 
ranging from 0.02% to 0.15% (2015: 0.05% to 0.1%) per annum. Cash at bank and in hand includes restricted cash balances of €5.2 million  
(2015: €12.4 million).
19. Financial Risk Management – Objective and Policies
The Group is exposed to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
 ¡ market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk);
 ¡ credit risk; and
 ¡ liquidity risk.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.  
The Group’s market risks arise from open positions in: (a) foreign currencies; and (b) interest-bearing assets and liabilities, to the extent that 
these are exposed to general and specific market movements. 
i) Foreign Currency Risk
The Group has entities registered in several EU countries, with the majority of operating transactions arising from its activities in Romania. 
Therefore, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to the Romanian Lei (RON). Foreign exchange risk arises in 
respect of those recognised monetary financial assets and liabilities that are not in the functional currency of the Group. The Group’s exposure 
to foreign currency risk was as follows (based on nominal amounts):
2016 2015
RON GBP USD RON GBP USD
All amounts are presented in €’000 equivalent value denominated denominated
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 19,141 18 106 13,561 14 80
Trade and other receivables 11,379 – – 13,757 – –
Income tax receivable 214 – – 583 – –
Total 30,734 18 106 27,901 14 80
LIABILITIES
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5,311 – – 5,987 – –
Trade and other payables 9,386 236 – 15,459 994 –
Income tax payable – – – 1 – –
Deposits from tenants 1,304 – – 1,094 – –
Total 16,001 236 – 22,541 994 –
Net exposure 14,733 (218) 106 5,360 (980) 80
Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis
As of the statement of financial position date, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in respect of the exchange rate of the RON, USD 
and GBP. The following table details the Group’s sensitivity (impact on income statement before tax and equity) to a 5% devaluation in RON, 
USD and GBP exchange rates against the EUR, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
The 5% sensitivity rate represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity 
analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the yearend for a 5% 
appreciation in the EUR against other currencies. 
All amounts in €’000
2016 2015
Profit and 
(loss) Equity
Profit and 
(loss) Equity
RON (737) (737) (268) (268)
GBP 11 11 49 49
USD (5) (5) (4) (4)
A 5% devaluation of the EUR against the above currencies would have had an equal but opposite impact on the above currencies to the 
amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii) Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate price risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates relative to the 
interest rate that applies to the financial instrument. Interest rate cash flows risk is the risk that the interest cost will fluctuate over time. 
The Group’s interest rate risk principally arises from interest-bearing loans and borrowings. As at 31 December 2016, 58.8% (2015: 75%) of  
the total outstanding borrowings carried variable interest rates (including the 1M and 3M EURIBOR and 1M ROBOR as bases) which expose 
the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. In order to minimise this risk, the Group hedged 14% (2015: 19%) of such variable interest rate 
borrowings with fixed-variable interest rate swap and interest rate cap instruments. Based on the Group’s debt balances at 31 December 2016, 
an increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the EURIBOR or ROBOR will result in an increase or decrease (net of tax) in the result for the year 
of €1.0 million (2015: €0.7 million), with a corresponding impact on equity for the same amount. This analysis assumes that all other variables, 
in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The Group has EUR denominated long-term borrowings (Loan 23) at fixed rates which constitute 41.2% (2015: 25%) of total debt portfolio. The 
facility is payable in June 2019; as a consequence, the Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk, which has been disclosed under IFRS 
but will not have an impact on the income statement. As of 31 December 2016, the fair value was higher by €1.7 million than the carrying value 
as disclosed below in fair value hierachy table.
Credit Risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group’s 
policy is to trade with recognised and creditworthy third parties. The Group’s exposure is continuously monitored and spread amongst 
approved counterparties. 132 133 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION IV: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES  
CONTINUED
19. Financial Risk Management – Objective and Policies continued
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk, by class of financial asset, is equal to their carrying values at the statement of financial 
position date.
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Trade receivables – net of provision 6,209 3,399
Other receivables 123 757
Guarantees retained by tenants 277 79
VAT and other taxes receivable 5,170 10,238
Income tax receivable 411 583
Cash and cash equivalents 221,337 37,036
233,527 52,092
Trade Receivables – Net of Provision 
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of tenants, a few of which 
are part of multinational groups, internationally dispersed, as disclosed in the subsection ‘Leasing review’ on the pages 36 and 37 of the 
Annual Report. For related parties it is assessed that there is no significant risk of non-recovery.
Estimates and Assumptions Used for Impairment of Trade Receivables
The Group assesses when there is sufficient objective evidence to require the impairment of individual trade receivables. It does this on the 
basis of the age of the relevant receivables, external evidence of the credit status of the counterparty and the status of any disputed amounts. 
The movements in the provision for impairment of receivables during the respective periods were as follows:
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Opening balance 2,542 2,313
Provision for doubtful debts 200 229
Reversal of provision for doubtful debts (298) –
Doubtful debts written off during the year (435) –
Closing balance 2,009 2,542
The analysis by credit quality of financial assets, cumulated for rent, service charge and property management, is as follows:
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired
Past due but not impaired
TOTAL <90 days <120 days <365 days
2016 (€’000) 5,051 936 145 77 6,209
2015 (€’000) 2,602 228 554 15 3,399
The customer balances which were overdue but not provisioned are due to the fact that the related customers committed and started to pay 
the outstanding balances subsequent to the year end. Further deposits payable to tenants may be withheld by the Group in part or in whole if 
receivables due from the tenant are not settled or in case of other breaches of contract.
Other Receivables
This balance relates to sundry debtors of €0.1 million (2015: €0.15 million) and consideration receivable for the seller of €0.3 million 
(2015: €0.3 million). Management has made due consideration of the credit risk associated with these balances resulting in no impairment 
being identified. 
vAT and Other Taxes Receivable 
This balance relates to corporate income tax paid in advance, VAT and other taxes receivable from the Romanian tax authorities. The balances 
are not considered to be subject to significant credit risk as all the amounts receivable from Government authorities are secured under 
sovereign warranty.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is very small, since the cash and cash equivalents are held at reputable banks in different 
countries. The most significant part of the cash and cash equivalents balance is kept at the Company level with bank having credit rating  
of A-2 and in subsidiaries in Romania in local branches of reputable international banks with credit rating of BBB.
Liquidity Risk
The Group’s policy on liquidity is to maintain sufficient liquid resources to meet its obligations as they fall due. Ultimate responsibility for 
liquidity risk management rests with management. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and planning  
and close monitoring of cash flows. The Group expects to meet its financial liabilities through the various available liquidity sources, including 
a secure rental income profile, further equity raises, undrawn committed borrowing facilities and, in the medium term, debt refinancing.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
All amounts in €’000
2016
Contractual payment
Difference 
from 
carrying 
amount
Carrying 
amount <3 months
3 months – 
1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 8,036 51,028 363,156 66,715 488,935 (74,700) 414,235
Trade payables and guarantee retained from contracts 
(excluding advances from customers) 5,492 10,731 2,221 –   18,444  –   18,444 
Other payables 296 887 – – 1,183 – 1,183
Finance lease liabilities 3 1 – – 4 – 4
Deposits from tenants 791 – 864 1,552 3,207 (572) 2,635
Income tax payable 44 – – – 44 – 44
Total 14,662  62,647  366,241  68,267  511,817  (75,272) 436,545 
All amounts in €’000
2015
Contractual payment
Difference 
from 
carrying 
amount
Carrying 
amount <3 months
3 months – 
1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 8,891 152,517 205,175 103,320 469,903 (65,592) 404,311
Trade payables and guarantee retained from contracts 
(excluding advances from customers) 15,863 11,798 3,278 – 30,939 – 30,939
Other payables 743 3,143 – – 3,886 – 3,886
Finance lease liabilities 6 14 4 – 24 (1) 23
Deposits from tenants 164 263 1,450 447 2,324 (411) 1,913
Income tax payable 75 – – – 75 – 75
Total 25,742 167,735 209,907 103,767 507,151 (66,004) 441,147
The tables above present the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to 
pay, and includes both interest and principal cash flows. As the amount of contractual undiscounted cash flows related to bank borrowings is 
based on variable rather than fixed interest rates, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the year end, 
that is, the actual spot interest rates effective at the end of year are used for determining the related undiscounted cash flows.
Financial Instruments for which Fair values are Disclosed
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments, other than those with 
carrying amounts that are reasonable approximations of their fair values.
All amounts in €’000 Year
Carrying 
amount
Fair value hierarchy
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 TOTAL
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (note 15) 2016 414,235 – 243,736 180,339 424,075
2015 404,311 – 404,311 – 404,311
Other current financial liabilities 2016 3,574 – 3,574 – 3,574
2015 3,935 – 3,935 – 3,935
Finance lease obligations 2016 4 – 4 – 4
2015 23 – 23 – 23
The fair value of financial liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between 
willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. When determining the fair values of interest-bearing loans and borrowings and 
finance lease obligations the Group used the DCF method with inputs such as discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the 
statement financial position date. The own non-performance risk at the statement of financial position date was assessed to be insignificant.
Other current financial liabilities
Other current financial liabilities represent the market-to-market value of an interest rate swap, obtained from the counterparty financial 
institution, at €3.6 million (2015: €3.9 million) at the end of the current year. The fair value of derivative was developed in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 13. Under the terms of the swap agreement, the Group is entitled to receive a floating rate of 1M EURIBOR at a notional 
amount of €22.8 million and is required to pay a fixed rate of interest of 3.62% p.a. on the said notional amount in four quarterly instalments, 
with maturity date of June 2022. The movement in fair value recognised in the income statement for the year was a financial income of  
€0.3 million (2015: €0.7 million).
On 31 December 2016, the Group had interest rate cap instruments valued market-to-market at €4,000 for secured loan 21 (2015: €0.15 million 
for secured loans 11, 19 and 20), see note 15, under which the Group capped EURIBOR at 1.25% for 50% of the notional loan facilities. These 
derivative financial instruments were fair valued (level 2) at each reporting date and any change in fair value is recognised in the consolidated 
statements of income within other financial expenses. The change in the fair value during the year ended 31 December 2016 was a loss of  
€0.3 million (2015: €0.2 million).
The Group assessed that the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities, such as trade and other receivables, guarantees retained 
by tenants, cash and cash equivalents, income tax receivable and payables, trade and other payables, guarantees retained from contractors and 
deposits from tenants, approximate their carrying amounts largely due to short-term maturities and low transaction costs of these instruments 
as of the statement of financial position date. 134 135 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION V: SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share schemes in operation and the associated share-based payment 
charge to profit or loss. Other mandatory disclosures, such as details of capital management, can also be found here.
20. Issued Share Capital
Policy
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. The costs of issuing or acquiring equity are recognised in equity (net of any related income tax 
benefit), as a reduction of equity on the condition that these are incremental costs directly attributable to the equity transaction that 
otherwise would have been avoided. The costs of an equity transaction that is abandoned are recognised as an expense. Those costs might 
include registration and other regulatory fees, amounts paid to legal, accounting and other professional advisers, printing costs and 
stamp duties. 
2016 2015
Note €’000
Number
(’000’) €’000
Number
(’000’)
Opening balance 341,784 62,617 288,740 53,645
Shares issued for settlement of interest-bearing liability 20.1 6,000 1,000 – –
Shares issued to the Executive Directors and other senior management 
employees 22.2 3,937 707 – –
Shares issued for cash 20.2 200,000 25,000 53,830 8,972
Transaction costs on issue of shares 20.2 (22,191) – (786) –
Transaction costs on issue of shares settled in shares 20.2 8,584 1,073
Balance at 31 December 538,114 90,397 341,784 62,617
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income but are entitled to dividends as declared from time to time. Each Ordinary share is entitled to 
one vote at meetings of the Company. There is no limit on the authorised share capital of the Company. The Company can issue no par value 
and par value shares as the shareholders see fit for the five-year period following the incorporation of the Company (unless renewed, revoked 
or varied by a general meeting). This authority has not been revoked by the shareholders.
Under Guernsey Company Law there is no distinction between distributable and non-distributable reserves, requiring instead that a company 
passes a solvency test in order to be able to make distributions to shareholders. Similarly, share premium for issuance of shares above their par 
value per share is recognised directly under share capital and no separate share premium reserve account is recognised.
20.1 Shares issued for settlement of interest-bearing liability
On 8 June 2016, the Company issued 1.0m Ordinary shares for the settlement of €6.0 million, an aggregate amount payable by the Company 
to lenders of a short-term Corporate Level Facility (‘Facility’), in respect of a prepayment fee and interest payable by the Company under the 
Facility which was prepaid in full during the year. The Ordinary shares have been issued at €6.00 per Ordinary share as the placing price at the 
last fundraising by the Company in September 2015, and equates to a premium of 18%. of the closing middle-market price on 8 June 2016.  
The 1.0 million new Ordinary shares rank pari passu with the existing shares of the Company.
20.2 Shares Issued for Cash
On 20 December 2016, an additional 25 million Ordinary shares were issued at €8.00 each (€200 million) following the completion of the 
fundraising, which was announced on 1 December 2016. The Group recognised an amount of €22.2 million as transaction costs for the 
fundraising, out of which €8.6 million was settled in 1.07 million shares issued on 20 December 2016 and €8.6 million to be settled with the 
further issuance of 1.07 million Ordinary shares, see note 21. The funds raised from the subscription will be used to develop the Globalworth 
Campus project, pursue attractive pre-identified investment opportunities in line with the Company’s investing policy and for other general 
corporate purposes. 
As a term of the subscription, the Company issued 1.07 million Ordinary shares at €8.00 each share as initial Fee Shares to settle transaction 
costs incurred for fundraising. The 26.07 million new Ordinary shares rank pari passu with the existing shares of the Company.
21. Unissued Share Capital
As disclosed in note 20.2 under the terms of equity fundraising completed in December 2016, the Company will issue, by no later than  
31 December 2017 an additional 1.07 million Ordinary shares as a second tranche of Fee Shares to settle remaining equity settled transaction 
costs in shares. The second tranche of Fee Shares are disclosed as dilutive shares for earnings per share and net asset value per share, see 
note 12.
22. Share-Based Payment Reserve
Policy
Equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, are treated as vesting irrespective of whether 
or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all service conditions are satisfied. The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is recognised in income statement, together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity (share-based payment reserve), over the 
period in which the service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired. Where the share scheme has market-related performance 
criteria, the Group has used a binomial option pricing model to establish the relevant fair values at grant date, taking into account the terms 
and conditions.
The following table analyses the movement in total cost outstanding at year end.
Share-based payments reserve Note
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Executive share option plan 22.1 319 305
Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior management employees 22.2 1,820 2,350
2,139 2,655
22.1 Executive Share Option Plan 
Under the plan, the Directors of the Group were awarded share option warrants as remuneration for the services performed. The share 
options granted to the Directors of the Group are equity settled.
In 2013, the Group granted warrants to the Founder and the Directors which entitle each holder to subscribe for Ordinary shares in the 
Company at an exercise price of €5.00 per share if the market price of an Ordinary share, on a weighted average basis over 60 consecutive 
days, exceeds a specific target price and the holder is employed on such date. The contractual term of each warrant granted is 10 years. There 
are no cash settlement alternatives and the Group does not have the intention to offer cash settlement for these warrants. Further details are 
disclosed in the Directors’ Report on the page 105 of the Annual Report. 
The following table analyses the total cost of the executive share option plan (Warrants), together with the number of options outstanding.
2016 2015
Cost
€’000
Number
(‘000’)
Cost
€’000
Number
(‘000’)
At the beginning of the year 305 4,635 180 4,635
Share scheme expense during the year 14 – 125 –
At 31 December 319 4,635 305 4,635
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 6.58 7.58
The fair value of the warrants was estimated at the grant date (i.e. July 2013) at €0.073 per share. There have been no cancellations or 
modifications to any of the plans during the year.
22.2 Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior management employees
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
At the beginning of the year 2,350 –
Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior management employees 3,407 2,350
Shares issued to the Executive Directors and other senior management employees (3,937) –
Closing balance 1,820 2,350
Shares issued to the Executive Directors and other senior management employees
On 25 January 2016, the Company issued 0.4 million Ordinary shares (Ordinary shares of no par value) and delivered them to the Executive 
Directors and other senior management employees from share-based payment reserve in their capacity as GIAL's preference shareholders, on 
behalf of its subsidiary GIAL, in order to settle a liability of €2.35 million owed by the Company to its subsidiary, related to the fees charged by 
GIAL to the Company pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement concluded between the Company and GIAL. The 0.4 million new shares 
rank pari passu with the existing shares of the Company. The Ordinary shares have been issued at €5.77 per Ordinary share, representing the 
volume-weighted average market price over the 90 trading days prior to the date of allotment.
Shares granted and issued to Executive Directors and other senior management employees
On 8 April 2016, the Board approved the award of an additional fee of €3.6 million to GIAL for the services rendered to the Company during the 
year ended 31 December 2015, which in turn GIAL has distributed to its preference shareholders. 50% of such amount was settled in the form  
of Ordinary shares in the Company. In this respect on 10 October 2016 the Company issued 269,927 Ordinary shares at €6.00 per share (market 
price on the date of allotment was €5.13 per share), and on 22 December 2016 it issued 30,073 Ordinary shares at €6.00 per share (market price 
on the date of allotment was €6.75 per share). The Ordinary shares issued rank pari passu with the existing shares of the Company.
Shares granted to Executive Directors and other senior management employees
On 20 March 2017, the Board approved the award of a variable fee of €2.16 million to GIAL for the services rendered to the Company during 
the year ended 31 December 2016. The Board also agreed that c.€1.6 million of the total amount of €2.16 million will be settled in the form of 
Ordinary shares in the Company (to be issued at €8.00 per share), subject to the vesting conditions set out in the performance incentive 
scheme for the Investment Adviser.
In addition, the amount of c.€3.4 million includes also a c.€0.2 million performance reward to employees of subsidiaries of the Group for their 
work during the year ended 31 December 2016, which will be settled with the issuance of Ordinary shares in the Company. The Ordinary 
shares to be issued will rank pari passu with the existing shares of the Company. 136 137 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION V: SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES  
CONTINUED
SECTION VI: BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES
This section includes details about Globalworth’s subsidiaries goodwill, subsidiary disposed and related impact on the income statement and 
cash flows.
23. Capital Management
The Company has no legal capital regulatory requirement. The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong equity capital base so as to maintain 
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the continuous development of its business. The Board considers from time to time 
whether it may be appropriate to raise new capital by a further issue of shares.
The Group monitors capital primarily using a LTV ratio, which is calculated as the amount of outstanding debt divided by the open market 
value of its investment property portfolio as certified by external valuers. As at 31 December 2016 the LTV ratio was 43.4% (2015: 43.9%).
24. Goodwill
Policy
Goodwill only arises upon a business combination, and is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, after recognising the acquiree’s 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. 
Subsequently, goodwill is carried at cost and is subject to reviews for impairment at each year end or whenever there is an indication of 
impairment. At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination. The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit, for the purpose of impairment testing, is determined using the discounted 
cash flows method and is applied to the full cash-generating unit rather than each legal entity. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be 
reversed in future periods.
Where goodwill arises as a result of deferred tax liabilities, recognised under a business combination on acquisition date, the impairment of 
this goodwill is calculated according to the amounts of tax optimisation existing at the date of reporting. Where goodwill has been allocated 
to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is 
included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is 
measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Goodwill balance
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
At 31 December 12,349 12,349
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (‘CGUs') which represented individual properties acquired under business 
combinations. The goodwill balance arose from deferred tax liabilities, recognised at the acquisition date of a subsidiary (Globalworth Asset 
Managers SRL), and its property management activities.
Key Estimates and Assumptions used for Goodwill Impairment Testing 
The Group’s impairment test for goodwill is based on value-in-use calculations that use a discounted cash flow model. The cash flows are 
derived from the budget for the next four years approved by management and significant future investments that will enhance the asset base 
of the cash-generating unit being tested. These calculations require the use of estimates which mainly include the assumptions on the 
financial performance of CGU's operations. The recoverable amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow 
model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. 
At 31 December 2016, the goodwill related to property management activity with a carrying value of €6.7 million (2015: 6.7 million) was tested 
for impairment. As permitted by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the detailed calculations of recoverable amount performed in 2015 were used 
for the 2016 impairment test as the criteria in that standard were considered to be satisfied: the assets and liabilities comprising the CGU have 
not changed significantly since the prior year; the previously calculated recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount by a substantial 
margin; and the likelihood that an updated calculation of the recoverable amount would be less than the CGU's, carrying amount at the time 
of the test was remote.
No impairment charge arose as a result of this assessment at year end. Management believes that as of 31 December 2016 no reasonable 
change in the main assumptions could result in an impairment charge (31 December 2015: same)
At 31 December 2016 and 2015 respectively, the value-in-use of the property management activity was determined based on the following 
main assumptions:
 ¡ budgets for 4 years;
 ¡ discount rate of 12.0% p.a.; and
 ¡ extrapolation in perpetuity from year 4 onwards, considering a growth rate of 1.0% p.a.
The goodwill related to deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition was not tested for impairment as there were no changes in the tax 
circumstances of the relevant entities or other events that would indicate an impairment thereof. 138 139 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION VII: OTHER DISCLOSURES
This section includes segmental disclosures highlighting the core areas of Globalworth’s operations in the office, residential and other 
(industrial and corporate segments). There were no significant transactions between segments except for management services provided by 
the offices segment to the residential and other (industrial) segments.
This section also includes the transactions with related parties, new standards and amendments, contingencies that existed at the year end 
and details on significant events which occurred subsequent to the date of the financial statements. 
26. Investment in Subsidiaries 
Policy
The Group assesses whether it has control over a subsidiary or an investee, in order to consolidate the assets, liabilities, income and expenses 
of the subsidiary or the investee in the Group’s consolidated financial statements, based on certain judgements and assumptions.
Key Judgements and Assumptions used in Determining the Control over an Entity:
 ¡ Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights, directly or indirectly, in the investee that give it the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee). If the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant 
facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including the contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee, rights arising from other contractual arrangements and the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
 ¡ Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
 ¡ The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns (such as appointment of administrator or director in the subsidiary or investee).
Details on all direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, over which the Group has control and consolidated as of 31 December 2016 and 
2015, are disclosed in the table below. There are no other subsidiaries which were not consolidated.
As of 31 December 2016, the Group held a 100% shareholding interest (31 December 2015: 100%) in the following subsidiaries, being holding 
companies as principal activities.
Subsidiary Place of incorporation
Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited, Globalworth Finance Guernsey Limited Guernsey, Channel Islands
GWI Finance B.V., Globalworth Holding B.V., GW Real Estate Finance B.V. Netherlands
Globalworth Holdings Cyprus Limited, Zaggatti Holdings Limited, Tisarra Holdings Limited, Ramoro Limited, 
Vaniasa Holdings Limited, Serana Holdings Limited, Kusanda Holdings Limited, Kifeni Investments Limited, 
Casalia Holdings Limited, Pieranu Enterprises Limited, Dunvant Holding Limited, Oystermouth Holding 
Limited, Saniovo Holdings Limited.
Cyprus
Mycre Investment S.A.
1
Greece
1 Disposed of during the year, see note 25.
As of 31 December 2016, the Group held a 100% shareholding interest (31 December 2015: 100%) in the 
following subsidiaries, who own real estate assets in Romania, being asset holding companies as their 
principal activities except Globalworth Building Management SRL. as building management.
Corinthian Five SRL., Tower Center International SRL., Upground Estates SRL., BOB Development SRL.,  
BOC Real Property SRL., Netron Investment SRL., SEE Exclusive Development SRL., Aserat Properties SRL. 
Corinthian Tower SRL., Bog’Art Offices SRL., Beta Property Development Company SRL., SPC Gamma Property 
Development Company SRL. Globalworth Asset Managers SRL. Globalworth Building Management SRL
Romania
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the following companies were incorporated, 100% owned by the 
Group, as holding companies in Cyprus.
Kinolta Investments Limited, Minory Investments Limited Cyprus
27. Segmental Information
Policy
The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Group is engaged mainly in three segments of business, being offices investment property, 
residential investment property and other, in one geographical area, Romania. Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent  
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers. The chief operating decision-makers, who are responsible for 
allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, have been identified as the Executive Directors.
The Group is domiciled in Guernsey. The Group earns revenue and holds non-current assets (investment properties) in Romania only, the 
geographical area of its operations. 
For investment property, discrete financial information is provided on a property-by-property basis (including those under construction)  
to members of executive management, which collectively comprise the Executive Directors of the Group. The information provided is Net 
Opearting Income (‘NOI') (gross rental income less property expenses) and property valuation gains/losses. The individual properties are 
aggregated into segments with similar economic characteristics, such as the nature of the property and the occupier market it serves. 
Management considers that this is best achieved by aggregating into the office, residential and other segments.
Consequently, the Group is considered to have three reportable operating segments: the Offices segment (acquires, develops, leases and 
manages offices and spaces), the Residential segment (builds, acquires, develops and leases apartments) and the Other segment (acquires, 
develops, leases and manages industrial spaces and corporate holding offices). Share-based payments expense is not allocated to individual 
segments as underlying instruments are managed at Group basis.
25. Gain on Sale of Subsidiary
On 24 February 2016, the Group disposed of its 100% shareholding in and control of Mycre Investment S.A. for total consideration  
of €11.3 million, in cash, and ceased to have control over this entity by transferring the title of the shares to Bakaso Holdings Limited,  
being the buyer. 
The following table presents the amount of the assets and liabilities in the disposed subsidiary on the disposal date, summarised by each 
major category.
Assets €’000 Liabilities €’000
Investment property held for sale 10,353 Loan payable to the Group 8,497
Trade and other receivables 387 Trade and other payables 12
Cash and cash equivalents 300 
Total assets 11,040 Total liabilities 8,509
Net assets of the subsidiary on disposal date (total assets minus total liabilities per the above table) 2,531
Loan payable to the Group 8,497
Total assets disposed 11,028
Disposal consideration (11,300)
(Gain) on sale of subsidiary (272)
Cash flows from the disposal:
Cash received 11,300
Cash balance of the subsidiary at disposal date (300)
Net cash inflows from the disposal 11,000
SECTION VI: BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES  
CONTINUED 140 141 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW
SECTION VII: OTHER DISCLOSURES  
CONTINUED
27. Segmental Information continued
Segment assets and liabilities reported to executive management on a segmental basis are set out below:
Segments
2016 2015
Office
€’000
Residential
€’000
Other
€’000
Inter-
segment 
eliminations
€’000
Total
€’000
Office
€’000
Residential
€’000
Other
€’000
Inter-
segment 
eliminations
€’000
Total
€’000
Revenue 59,725  2,985  6,807  (1,286) 68,231 37,977 2,855 5,779 (1,835) 44,776
Operating expenses (20,947) (944) (3,156) 369  (24,678) (11,885) (1,843) (3,333) 655 (16,406)
Segment NOI 38,778  2,041  3,651  (917) 43,553 26,092 1,012 2,446 (1,180) 28,370
Administrative expenses (3,529) (599) (4,478) 899 (7,707) (3,434) (1,210) (6,447) 890 (10,201)
Acquisition costs (14) –   (91) – (105) (811) – – – (811)
Change in fair value of 
investment property 6,527  (1,277) 1,460  – 6,710 47,859 (437) 2,000 – 49,422
Bargain purchase gain on 
acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – 17,227 – – – 17,227 
Depreciation on other 
long-term assets  (119)  (62) (2)  – (183) (108) (66) – – (174)
Other expenses (169) (1,688) –   – (1,857) – – – – –
Other income 2,910  201  –   – 3,111 – – – – –
Foreign exchange loss (135)  (17) 33  – (119) (169) (10) (70) – (249)
Finance cost (28,153) (2,644) (1,425) – (32,222) (18,568) (2,210) (694) – (21,472)
Finance income 748   1  –  – 749 522 2 2 – 526
Segment results  16,844  (4,044) (852)  (18) 11,930 68,610 (2,919) (2,763) (290) 62,638
Share-based payment 
expense – – (14) – (14) – – (125) – (125)
Gain on sale of subsidiary – – 272 – 272 – – – – –
Profit before tax 16,844  (4,044) (594) (18) 12,188 68,610 (2,919) (2,888) (290) 62,513
Revenues are derived from a large number of tenants and no tenant contributes more than 10% of the Group’s rental revenues for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 (2015: €nil). 
Segments
2016 2015
Office
€’000
Residential
€’000
Other
€’000
Inter-
segment 
eliminations
€’000
Total
€’000
Office
€’000
Residential
€’000
Other
€’000
Inter-
segment 
eliminations
€’000
Total
€’000
Segment non-current 
assets 844,752 101,454 52,445 (29) 998,622 804,218 108,760 44,391 (34) 957,335
Total assets 1,054,626 104,831 73,975 (1,630) 1,231,802 844,212 110,246 67,140 (1,460) 1,020,138
Total liabilities 451,205 34,857 32,015 (1,669) 516,408 458,184 37,606 26,158 (1,493) 520,455
Additions to  
non-current assets 37,691 200 4,220 – 42,111 70,982 24 8,789 – 79,795
None of the Group’s non-current assets are located in Guernsey except for goodwill (there are no employment benefit plan assets, deferred 
tax assets or rights arising under insurance contracts) recognised on business combination.
28. Transactions with Related Parties
The Group’s related parties are the Company’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors, as well as all companies controlled by them or under 
their joint control, or under significant influence. The Group’s major shareholders are disclosed on page 105 of the Director’s Report of the 
Annual Report. 
The related party transactions are set out in the table below:
Income statement 
Statement of  
financial position
Income/(expense) Amounts owing (to)/from
Name Nature of transactions/balance amounts
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
2016
€’000
2015
€’000
Asia CCF Investment S.à r.l Corporate Loan facility  (994) (828) – (11,337)
CDP ESCF Investment S.à r.l. Corporate Loan facility  (1,364) (1,204) – (15,563)
ESCF Investment S.à r.l. Corporate Loan facility  (1,867) (1,774) – (21,300)
York Global Finance Offshore BDH 
(Luxembourg) S.à r.l.
Corporate Loan facility 
 (3,011) (2,606) – (34,356)
SPFC Investment S.à r.l. Corporate Loan facility  (533) (541) – (6,081)
Indiana Public Retirement System Corporate Loan facility  (361) (247) – (4,123)
Centre Street Investments S.à r.l. Corporate Loan facility  (723) (493) – (8,245)
OCA OHA Credit Fund LLC Corporate Loan facility  (181) (123) – (2,061)
Mr Ioannis Papalekas Advances to Directors – – – 650
Mr Ioannis Papalekas
1
Revenue from sale of residential completed 
property 1,667 – – –
1 During the year, Globalworth Asset Managers SRL completed the sale, the terms of which had been agreed in 2011, of two apartments and a few parking and 
storage spaces for an amount of €2 million including VAT (€1.67 million excluding VAT).
The emoluments of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 107 – 108  
of the Annual Report.
29. New and Amended Standards
Starting from 1 January 2016 the Group adopted the following new and amended standards and interpretations. The new standards and 
amendments had no impact on the Group’s financial position and performance.
New and amended standards and interpretations
Effective 
date
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements (Amendment): Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Jan-16
IAS 16 Property, Plant & Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets (Amendment): Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation Jan-16
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (amended) Jan-16
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments) Jan-16
IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative (Amendment) Jan-16
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 cycle Jan-16
Standards issued but not yet effective and not early adopted by the Group are presented in the table below.
IFRS 15 does not apply to rental income, but only apply to service charge income and property development services revenues generated by 
the Group. The Group does not currently anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 15 would have a material impact on the measurement of revenues 
derived from the above mentioned two revenue streams, however, additional disclosures may be required to be made in the consolidated 
financial statements. The Group will continue its assessment of the possible impact from the adoption of this new standard starting from  
1 January 2018 and will consider any interpretation notes and guidance that may be issued in the meantime by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 16. For other standards issued but not yet effective and not early 
adopted by the Group, the management believes that there will be no significant impact in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Narrow scope amendments and new Standards
Effective 
date
IAS 12 Income taxes (Amendments): Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Jan-17
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (Amendments): Disclosure Initiative Jan-17
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Jan-18
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement Jan-18
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Jan-18
IFRS 16 Leases Jan-19 142 143 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
SECTION VII: OTHER DISCLOSURES  
CONTINUED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GLOBALWORTH REAL ESTATE 
INVESTMENTS LIMITED
29. New and Amended Standards continued
Narrow scope amendments and new Standards
Effective 
date
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: Sale or  
Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Not yet announced
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Not yet announced
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Clarifications) Not yet announced
IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments)  Not yet announced
IAS 40: Transfers to Investment Property (Amendments) Not yet announced
IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Not yet announced
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 – 2016 Cycle Not yet announced
30. Contingencies
Policy
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements. They are disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits is remote. A contingent asset is not recognised in the consolidated financial statements but 
disclosed when an inflow of economic benefits is probable. 
Legal Claims
One of the Company’s subsidiaries (the ‘Subsidiary’) is involved in court proceedings with a third party. Following the third party’s decision to 
terminate the lease agreement signed with the Subsidiary, the Subsidiary enforced the c.€3.16 million bank letter of guarantee provided by the 
third party, on the grounds that the third party has unlawfully terminated the agreement. The third party claimed that the Subsidiary was not 
entitled to enforce the guarantee and requested before the court that the Subsidiary reimburses the guarantee amount. On top of the 
cashed-in guarantee, the Subsidiary has submitted a court claim against the third party claiming an amount of c.€24.7 million representing 
penalties as per the agreement for the unlawful termination of the agreement by the third party. The presiding judge accepted the Subsidiary’s 
claim to merge the two claims into one court case and the next hearing will be held in April 2017. Based on the legal advice it has received, 
management believes that the presiding judge will embrace its view that the Subsidiary acted in accordance with the applicable law and the 
remedies available to it under the agreement when enforcing the bank letter of guarantee provided by the third party.
Taxation
All amounts due to State authorities for taxes have been paid or accrued at the balance sheet date. The Romanian tax system undergoes  
a consolidation process and is being harmonised with the European legislation. Different interpretations may exist at the level of the tax 
authorities in relation to the tax legislation that may result in additional taxes and penalties payable. Where the State authorities have findings 
from reviews relating to breaches of Romania’s tax laws, and related regulations these may result in: confiscation of the amounts in case; 
additional tax liabilities being payable; fines and penalties (that are applied on the total outstanding amount). As a result, the fiscal penalties 
resulting from breaches of the legal provisions may result in a significant amount payable to the State. The Group believes that it has paid in 
due time and in full all applicable taxes, penalties and penalty interests in the applicable extent.
Transfer Pricing
According to the applicable relevant Romanian tax legislation, the tax assessment of related party transactions is based on the concept of 
market value for the respective transfers. Following this concept, the transfer prices should be adjusted so that they reflect the market prices 
that would have been set between unrelated companies acting independently (i.e. based on the “arm’s length principle”). It is likely that 
transfer pricing reviews will be undertaken in the future in order to assess whether the transfer pricing policy observes the “arm’s length 
principle” and therefore no distortion exists that may affect the taxable base of the Romanian tax payer. 
31. Subsequent Events
Date Description
21 February 2017 Signing of agreement for acquisition of subsidiary 
The Group signed an agreement for the acquisition of a 100% holding and control of Elgan Automotive Kft., an unlisted 
holding company based in Hungary, and its subsidiary Elgan Automotive SRL., an unlisted company based in Romania. 
Elgan Automotive SRL. operates in the real estate management and development business and currently owns a modern 
warehouse facility 100% leased to Automobile Dacia, Romania's largest corporate, on a long-term basis. The transaction 
value is c.€42.5 million. Closing of the transaction is expected at the beginning of April 2017.
1. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements
In our opinion Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited’s (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) consolidated 
financial statements (the “financial statements”):
 ¡ give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and its profit for the year then ended;
 ¡ have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”); 
and  
 ¡ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008.
2. What we have audited
We have audited the Group financial statements of Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited for the year ended 31 December 2016,  
which comprise:
• the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016;
• the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2016;
• the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2016;
• the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2016; and
• the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS.
3. Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement • Valuation of investment property
• Revenue recognition 
Audit scope •  We have performed an audit of the complete financial information of nine components and audit 
procedures on specific balances, particularly the valuation of investment property, where we  
considered the risk of material misstatement to be higher, for a further four components.  
We also performed work on other specific balances for a further thirteen components.
•  The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% of total equity 
(including the parent company which was a full scope component), and 100% of the Groups’ total revenue.
Materiality •  Overall materiality of €5.2 million (2015: €5.0 million) which represents 1% (2015: 1%) of total equity net of 
new equity in 2016.
What has changed • Our scope of work has changed from the prior year as follows
Business combinations
Accounting for business combinations was considered a significant risk in the prior year. There were no 
significant business combination in the year so this is not considered to be a significant risk in the  
current year.
Management’s judgements about going concern
During the year the Group obtained significant new debt and equity financing. Accordingly we no longer 
consider that there is a significant risk with respect to management’s judgements about going concern.
The audit was led by EY Guernsey. The Group audit team comprised individuals from Guernsey and Romania and we operated as an 
integrated team across both jurisdictions. We engaged component teams in Romania and in Cyprus. The engagement partner and senior 
manager from Guernsey visited Romania to review work done there. We performed audit procedures and responded to the risks identified  
as described below. 
3.1. Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus 
identified by our audit. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial 
statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas. 144 145 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations 
communicated to the  
Audit Committee
Valuation of investment 
property (€981 million;  
2015 – €937 million)
The valuation of investment 
property is the key driver of 
the Group’s net asset value 
and total return. Valuation of 
investment property requires 
specialist expertise and the 
use of significant estimates 
and judgements giving rise to 
a higher risk of misstatement.
Refer to the Audit Committee 
Report (page 109) and note 3 
of the financial statements  
(page 119)
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over the valuation 
of investment property which covered 100% thereof. Specific scope 
procedures were performed by component audit teams based on 
instructions issued by the Group audit team. Those procedures are 
described below:
 ¡ We documented our understanding of the processes, policies and 
methodologies used by management for valuing investment property 
and performed walkthrough tests to confirm our understanding of the 
systems and controls implemented.
 ¡ We agreed the valuations recorded in the consolidated financial 
statements to the values reported by the Company’s independent 
experts (“Specialists”).
 ¡ We agreed a sample of the significant inputs, particularly rental data, let 
areas and projected capex, used by the Specialists to value investment 
property to contractual documentation and  
development plans.
 ¡ We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the calculations done by 
Specialists for the main assumptions in the model, by reperforming  
a sample of their calculations.
 ¡ We engaged our own internal valuation experts from Romania to:    
 – use their knowledge of the market to assess and corroborate the    
market related judgements and valuation inputs (including discount 
rates, exit yields and sales values) used by the Specialists; and                                   
 – assist us in determining whether the Specialists were appropriately  
qualified and independent.
We confirmed that there were 
no material matters arising 
from our audit work that we 
wished to bring to the attention 
of the Audit Committee.
We confirmed that investment 
property was not materially 
misstated.
Recognition of rental  
income (€46 million;  
2015 – €31 million) 
Management may seek to 
overstate rental income as  
it is a significant metric and 
indicator of the Group’s 
progress giving rise to a higher 
risk of misstatement.
Refer to note 7 of the financial 
statements (page 123)
 ¡ We documented our understanding of the processes, policies and 
methodologies used by management in respect of revenue recognition 
and performed walkthrough tests to confirm our understanding of the 
systems and controls implemented.
 ¡ On a sample basis we agreed rental rates to tenancy agreements and 
rent received to bank statements. 
 ¡ For a sample of tenancy agreements with lease incentives, we 
recalculated the spreading of the incentives over the period of the 
contract by reference to the terms of the agreements and we assessed 
the appropriateness of the accounting treatment by reference to the 
requirements of IFRS.
We confirmed that there were 
no matters identified during 
our audit work on revenue 
recognition that we wished to 
bring to the attention of the 
Audit Committee.
We confirmed that revenue 
from rental income was 
recognised in accordance  
with IFRS.
4. Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and 
on the financial statements. For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define 
materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, 
relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
 
4.1. Materiality
This is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence  
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.  Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our 
audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be €5.2 million (2015: €5.0 million), which is 1% of total equity less equity raised in 
December 2016 of €200 million, net of transaction costs of issuing shares (2015: 1% of equity).  This provided a basis for determining the 
nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the 
nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
It was considered inappropriate to determine materiality based on the Group’s profit before tax as the primary performance measures of the 
Group for internal and external reporting are based on equity. 
We believe that total equity provides us with an appropriate basis for audit materiality as it is a key published performance measure and is a 
key metric used by management in assessing and reporting on overall performance.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and noted no matters leading us to amend materiality levels from those 
originally determined at the audit planning stage.
4.2. Performance materiality
This refers to the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately  
low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 50% (2015: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely €2.6 million (2015: €2.5 million).  Our objective in adopting  
this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in the financial statements did not exceed our  
materiality level.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. For the Group audit, the performance materiality set for each component is based on 
the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the 
current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was €0.52 million to €1.7 million (2015: €0.4 million to €1.2 million). 
This is set out in more detail in section 5 below.
4.3. Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of €260,000 (2015: €250,000), 
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on  
qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other 
relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
5. Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
5.1. Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each 
entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Group financial statements. The factors that we considered 
when assessing the scope of the Group audit and the level of work to be performed at each location included the following: the financial 
significance and specific risks of the location; the size of the component in relation to Group total equity; the organisation of the Group and 
effectiveness of the control environment, including group-wide controls; and changes in the business environment. 
Of the 30 components selected, which includes the parent company, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of nine 
components (“full scope component”) which were selected based on their size and risk characteristics. For the remaining twenty-one 
components (“specific scope components”), we performed specific audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we 
considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of the 
accounts or their risk profile. For those specific accounts selected, as part of our specific scope components, the extent of our audit work on 
those accounts was the same as that for a full scope audit.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GLOBALWORTH REAL ESTATE 
INVESTMENTS LIMITED CONTINUED 146 147 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GLOBALWORTH REAL ESTATE 
INVESTMENTS LIMITED CONTINUED
The components selected, in addition to the parent company, which is a full scope component, together with the allocated performance 
materiality, were as follows:
Component Name Location Investment type Scope
Performance 
materiality €
Globalworth Asset Managers SRL Romania Asset manager / Completed Investment 
property / Investment property under 
development
Full scope 1,300,000
BOC Real Property SRL Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 1,430,000
Upground Estates SRL Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 1,170,000
Tower Center International SRL Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 1,170,000
Corinthian Five SRL Romania Investment property under development Full scope 1,690,000
Corinthian Tower SRL Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 1,170,000
Bog’art Offices SRL Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 1,170,000
SPC Beta Property Development Company 
SRL
Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 780,000
SPC Gamma Property Development Company 
SRL
Romania Completed Investment property Full scope 780,000
BOB Development SRL Romania Completed Investment property Specific scope (1) 1,170,000
SEE Exclusive Development SRL Romania Completed Investment property / 
Investment property under development
Specific scope (2) 780,000
Netron Investment SRL Romania Investment property under development Specific scope (3) 780,000
Aserat Properties SRL Romania Land bank for further development Specific scope (4) 520,000
Globalworth Building Management SRL Romania Building management services Specific scope (5) 520,000
Globalworth Holdings Cyprus Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Pieranu Enterprises Ltd Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Tisarra Holding Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Ramoro Ltd Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Oystermouth Holding Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Dunvant Holding Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Zaggatti Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Casalia Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Kifeni Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Serana Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Vaniasa Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Saniovo Holding Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Kusanda Holdings Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Minory Investments Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
Kinolta Investments Limited Cyprus Holding entity Specific scope (5) 520,000
1 Investment property, rental and service charge income, cash, bank loans & interest expense, commitments and contingent liabilities and taxation (including  
deferred taxation)
2 Investment property, rental and service charge income, cash, accounts payable, bank loans & interest expense, commitments and contingent liabilities and  
taxation (including deferred taxation)
3 Investment property, cash, accounts payables, commitments and contingent liabilities and taxation (including deferred taxation and VAT receivable)
4 Investment property, cash, commitments and contingent liabilities and taxation (including deferred taxation)
5 Taxation and contingent liabilities.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% (2015: 98%) of the Group’s total equity (including the 
parent company which was a full scope component), and 100% (2015: 99%) of the Group’s total revenue. For the current year, the full scope 
components contributed 80% (2015: 77%) of the Group’s total equity and 82% (2015: 79%) of the Group’s total revenue. The specific scope 
components contributed 20% (2015: 21%) of the Group’s total equity and 18% (2015: 21%) of the Group’s total revenue.
The remaining components together represent below 1% of the total equity and none are individually greater than 2% of the Group’s total 
equity.  For these components we only performed analytical procedures (and certain audit procedures as applicable) as there were no risks 
identified that could indicate the group financial statements might be materially misstated.
5.2. Involvement with component teams
Team structure
The overall audit strategy is determined by the opinion signatory who is based in Guernsey. Since the group’s operations are principally in 
Romania, the audit team includes EY teams from Romania. The Group audit team visited Romania during the current year and prior year 
audits. Whilst in Romania we focused our time on the significant risks and judgemental areas of the audit. In addition, EY Cyprus was involved 
for the components in Cyprus with assigned specific scope.
Involvement with component teams
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the 
components by the Group audit team, or by the component team operating under our instruction. For the specific scope components,  
where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to be satisfied that 
sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. The Group audit team, assisted by our internal 
valuation specialists in Romania, performed procedures on the valuations of investment properties.
The Group audit team also participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specific scope locations. The Group audit team 
interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were 
responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us 
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
6. Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 106, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
7. Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report is: 
 ¡ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 ¡ apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 ¡ otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing  
the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and 
accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately 
addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we 
consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
Companies (Guernsey)  
Law 2008 reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 ¡ proper accounting records have not been kept; or
 ¡ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records; or
 ¡ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for  
our audit.
We have no exceptions  
to report. 148 149 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
INVESTING POLICY
Investing strategy
The Company’s primary focus is to invest in a diversified portfolio of 
real estate opportunities situated in Romania and the wider South 
and Central Eastern European regions. The Directors believe its 
primary market of investment represents an attractive real estate 
investment proposition over the medium to long term.
By investing in income-generating properties, asset repositioning 
and development opportunities, and seeking to derive most of its 
income from multinational corporate groups and institutional 
financial tenants on long, triple net leases, the Company intends  
to provide investors with an attractive, risk-adjusted combination  
of yield and capital appreciation.
Globalworth is internally managed, with all investment advisory and 
portfolio management services exclusively provided by Globalworth 
Investment Advisers Ltd (‘GIAL'), a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company. Asset management services to the Company’s real estate 
portfolio are provided by Globalworth Asset Managers (‘GAM'), 
another wholly owned subsidiary of Globalworth, which employs a 
team of 53 professionals. 
Assets or companies in which the Company can invest 
Investments made by the Company may take the form of, but  
are not limited to, single real estate assets, real estate portfolios  
and companies, joint ventures, loan portfolios and equity and  
debt instruments. 
Strategy through which the investing policy is achieved
The Company’s strategy is to focus on acquiring underperforming  
or undervalued properties (due to financial distress, mismanagement 
or otherwise) and, through active asset management, to transform 
these into performing and marketable assets. Most of the current  
or expected income from these assets is derived from multinational 
corporate groups and institutional financial tenants on long, triple 
net and annually indexed leases.
Investment approach
The Company assumes a proactive approach to every real estate 
investment in the Company’s portfolio and pursues various asset 
management initiatives according to the most appropriate business 
plan for each investment. These initiatives may include: repositioning 
of existing assets (including re-letting, refurbishment or 
redevelopment); development of new assets, corporate restructuring 
and reorganisation; portfolio break-ups (for example, ‘wholesale’ to 
‘retail’ trades); and optimising capital structure. 
Holding period for investments
The typical holding period for any investment is expected to be five 
to seven years. The decision to exit a particular investment will be 
taken by the Company’s Board of Directors (‘the Board’) following  
the recommendation of the Investment Adviser, and may be less or 
greater than the expected holding period. Such a decision may result 
from a variety of factors, including the need to optimise the risk/
return of the investment, responding to asset or market dynamics,  
or taking advantage of an unsolicited enquiry, but always with a view 
to ensuring that returns to shareholders are maximised.
Gearing and cross holdings policies
The Company is permitted, directly or indirectly, to borrow for 
working capital, investment and any other purpose. Debt financing  
is expected to be an important component of the structuring and 
execution of the Company’s investments, to improve returns for both 
developmental and income-generating assets. Borrowings may be 
undertaken by the Company itself or by any of its subsidiaries or 
project companies. The amount of leverage employed in respect  
of an investment is dependent on the nature of the opportunity, 
however, it is expected that the maximum loan-to-value for the 
Group will not exceed 60%.
Hedging instruments
In connection with third-party debt, the Company may enter into  
one or a series of interest rate hedging products (including, among 
others, swaps, caps, collars or options) to protect the returns of  
the relevant investment against adverse interest rate fluctuations. 
Although it is anticipated that all rentals and debt finance will be in 
Euro, the Company may also enter into one or a series of currency 
hedging instruments (including, among others, swaps, caps, collars 
or options) to protect the returns of the relevant investment against 
adverse currency fluctuations.
Investing restrictions
Unless the Board (at its absolute discretion) approves otherwise, the 
Company will not acquire or invest in commercial properties which 
do not satisfy the minimum pre-letting commitment targets and will 
not acquire any asset where any such acquisition would result in more 
than 50% of the Company’s net asset value (at the time of investment) 
being attributable to assets located outside Romania. The 
Company’s minimum pre-letting commitment is as follows:
 ¡ for any logistics or warehouse property, pre-letting commitments 
for a minimum of 60% of the gross leasable area of such property; 
and
 ¡ for any other commercial property, pre-letting commitments for 
minimum of 50% of the gross leasable area of such property.
These above restrictions will not preclude the Company making 
investments in short-dated cash or near-cash equivalent securities, 
which form part of its cash management practices.
Nature of returns that the Company seeks to deliver 
to Shareholders
To support shareholder dividends, the Directors anticipate that a 
sustainable cash flow will be generated through stable and recurring 
rental income, increased where appropriate through active asset 
management. The determination as to whether or not to reinvest 
some of the proceeds of the disposal of an asset, and the declaration 
of dividends, is at the absolute discretion of the Board. It is intended 
that not less than 90% of the Company’s funds from operations will 
be distributed to shareholders of the Company on a semi-annual 
basis, subject to solvency or other legal requirements.
8.  Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity  
of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to 
add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 ¡ the Directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 ¡ the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how 
they are being managed or mitigated;
 ¡ the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the 
entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months 
from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 ¡ the Directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed 
the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Ernst & Young LLP
Guernsey
3 April 2017
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited web site is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they 
were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of group financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GLOBALWORTH REAL ESTATE 
INVESTMENTS LIMITED CONTINUED 150 151 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
SCHEDULE OF PROPERTIES
Property name Location Address
Year of
completion
Acquisition
date
Ownership
%
 GLA 
 m² Occupancy
4
Contracted rent
WALL 
years
 “As Is” valuation 
 €’000
 “Completion” valuation 
 €’000
Office Standing           Standing          
BOB Bucharest 6A Dimitrie Pompeiu Blvd, district 2 2008 Q1, 2014 100 22,391 97.3 3.6 5.5 50,250 50,250
BOC Bucharest 3 George Constantinescu St., district 2 2009 Q1, 2014 100 56,962 97.2 9.6 5.8 143,700 143,700
City Offices Bucharest 2 – 4A Oltenitei Street., district 4 2014 Q3, 2013 100 35,968 21.8 1.4 4.5 62,000 62,000
TCI Bucharest 15-17 Ion Mihalache Blvd, district 1 2012 Q1, 2014 100 22,453 99.7 5.0 4.1 76,700 76,700
UniCredit HQ Bucharest 1F Expozitiei Blvd, district 1 2012 Q1, 2015 100 15,500 100.0 3.8 5.4 52,500 52,500
Globalworth Plaza
1
Bucharest 42 Pipera Road, district 2 2010 Q1, 2015 100 24,020 29.7 1.3 4.7 56,500 56,500
Green Court A Bucharest 4 Gara Herastrau, district 2 2014 Q2, 2015 100 19,589 100.0 3.4 5.3 51,300 51,300
Green Court B Bucharest 4 Gara Herastrau, district 2 2015 Q4, 2015 100 18,369 100.0 3.5 4.2 53,200 53,200
Globalworth Tower Bucharest 201 Barbu Vacarescu Street, district 2 Q1 2016 Q3, 2013 100 54,686 83.2 9.6 8.8 162,500 162,500
Gara Herastrau Bucharest 4B Gara Herastrau Street, district 2 Q2 2016 Q2, 2014 100 12,037 68.9 1.4 6.3 28,800 28,800
            281,975 78.7 42.6   737,450 737,450
Office Development          Development          
Globalworth Campus
2
Bucharest 4-6 Dimitrie Pompeiu Blvd, district 2 2017E/2018E Q1, 2014 100 88,650 – – – 70,430 170,900
            88,650 – –   70,430 170,900
Industrial           Industrial          
Completed                      
TAP – completed
3
Timisoara Lipovei Way, Giarmata, Timis 2011 & 2015 Q3, 2014 100 81,349 97.3 3.5 11.1 42,869 42,869
Development                      
TAP – (development)
3
Timisoara Lipovei Way, Giarmata, Timis 2017e Q3, 2014 100 50,000 100.0 1.9 11.0 7,511 21,911
            131,349 98.3 5.4   50,380 64,780
           
Retail/residential          
Commercial/ 
residential        
Upground Towers Bucharest 9B Fabrica de Glucoza Street, district 2 2011 Q1, 2014 100 56,662 99.3/47.8 2.4 7.44/1.95 101,211 101,211
            56,662 99.3/47.8 2.4 7.4/1.9 101,211 101,211
             
Land bank – for further development  
 Land bank –  
for further  
development  
Luterana Bucharest 7-13 Luterana Street, district 1 – Q4, 2014 100 – – – – 12,300 12,300
Herastrau One Bucharest 48-50 Soseaua Nordului, district 1 – Q3, 2013 100 – – – – 5,750 5,750
            – – –   18,050 18,050
558,905       977,521 1,092,391
Note: All data as of 31 December 2016
1 Globalworth Plaza, was previously referred to as Nusco Tower
2 Phase A is under construction (GLA: c.57k sqm) with expected completion dates for  
Towers I and II in 2017 and 2018 respectively. Phase B expected to commence in 2018.
3 Includes all extension options availables to tenants. Currently two facilities with total GLA of 25.5k sqm,  
100% leased to Valeo and Litens are under construction and are expected to be completed in 2017. 
4 Retail units in the property
5 Residential units available in the property 152 153 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GLOSSARY
Accounting Return
The growth in EPRA NAV plus dividend paid which can be expressed 
as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
AIC
The Association of Investment Companies.
Bargain Purchase Gain
Any excess between the fair value of net assets acquired and 
consideration paid, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combination.
BREEAM
Building Research Establishment Assessment Method, which 
assesses the sustainability of the buildings against a range of criteria.
CAPEX
Represents the estimated Capital Expenditure to be incurred for the 
completion of the development projects.
Capitalisation Rates
Based on actual location, size and quality of the properties and 
taking into account market data at the valuation date.
CBD
Central Business District
CEE
Central and Eastern Europe
Commercial Properties
Comprises the office, light-industrial and retail properties or areas of 
the portfolio.
Completed Investment Property
Completed developments consist of those properties that are in a 
condition which will allow the generation of cash flows from its rental.
Completion Dates
The date when the properties under development will be completed 
and ready to generate rental income after obtaining all necessary 
permits and approvals.
Costs to Complete
It represents additional costs to complete the property 
under development.
Debt Service Cover Ratio (DSCR)
It is calculated as net operating income for the year as defined in 
specific loan agreements with the respective lenders, divided by the 
principal plus interest due over the same year.
Discount Rates
The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount a stream of 
future cash flows to their present value.
Discounted Cash Flow Analysis (DCF)
Valuation method that implies income projections of the property  
for a discrete period of time, usually between 5-10 years. The DCF 
method involves the projection of a series of periodic cash flows 
either to an operating property or a development property. 
Discounted cash flow projections based on significant unobservable 
inputs taking into account the costs to complete and 
completion date.
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Profit after tax divided by the basic/diluted weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year.
EBITDA
Earnings before finance cost, tax, depreciation, amortisation of other 
non-current assets and purchase gain on acquisition of subsidiaries.
EBITDA (normalised)
Earnings before interest, depreciation, bargain purchase gain, fair 
value movement and other non-operational and/or non-recurring 
income and expense items.
EPRA
The European Public Real Estate Association is a non-profit 
association representing Europe’s publicly listed property companies.
EPRA Earnings
Profit after tax attributable to the equity holders of the Company, 
excluding investment property revaluation, gains, losses on 
investment property disposals and related tax adjustment for losses 
on disposals, bargain purchase gain on acquisition of subsidiaries, 
acquisition costs, changes in the fair value of financial instruments 
and associated close-out costs and the related deferred tax impact 
of adjustments made to profit after tax.
EPRA Earnings Per Share
EPRA Earnings divided by the basic or diluted number of shares 
outstanding at the year or period end.
EPRA NAV Per Share
EPRA NAV divided by the basic/diluted number of shares 
outstanding at the year or period end.
EPRA Net Assets (EPRA NAV)
Net assets per the statement of financial position, excluding the 
mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt 
adjustments and deferred taxation on revaluations excluding goodwill.
Estimated Rental Value (ERV)
ERV is the external valuers’ opinion as to the open market rent which, 
on the date of valuations, could reasonably be expected to be 
obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Estimated Vacancy Rates
Represent vacancy rates computed based on current and expected 
future market conditions after expiry of any current lease.
EURIBOR
The Euro Interbank Offered Rate: the interest rate charged by one 
bank to another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in 
bank facilities.
Financial Year
Period from 1 January to 31 December.
FFO
Free funds from operations, estimated as the EPRA Earnings for the 
relevant period.
Future Rental Cash Inflows
Future rental cash inflows computed based on the actual location, 
type and quality of the properties and supported by the terms of any 
existing lease, other contracts or external evidence such as current 
market rents for similar properties.
GLA
Gross leasable area.
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union.
Income Capitalisation Method
Valuation method that takes into consideration the income that a 
property is expected to generate if leased out assuming a stabilised 
occupancy level, and applying to that income a capitalisation rate 
reflecting the investors’ interest in a property of this kind.
Property Under Development
Properties in the development process that do not meet all the 
requirements to be transferred to completed investment property.
Property Under Refurbishment
Properties in the process of being refurbished and do not meet all 
the requirements to be transferred to completed 
investment property.
IPO
Admission to the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Land Bank for Further Development
Land bought for further development but for which the Group did 
not obtain all the legal documentations and authorisation permits  
in order to start the development process.
LEED
Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design, a green building 
certification programme that recognises best-in-class building 
strategies and practices.
Like-for-like Property Value (LTLV)
LTLV is the change in fair value over a period of one year on the 
standing and underdevelopment investment properties.
Loan to Value (LTV)
Calculated as the total outstanding debt excluding amortised cost  
as of financial position date divided by the appraised value of owned 
assets as of financial position date.
Maintenance Costs
Including necessary investments to maintain functionality of the 
property for its expected useful life.
Net Assets Value (NAV)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company and/or net 
assets value.
Net Asset Value (NAV) Per Share
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company divided by the 
number of Ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Net Operating Income (NOI)
Net operating income (being the gross operating income less 
operating expenses that are not paid by or rechargeable to tenants, 
excluding funding costs, depreciation and capital expenditure).
Non-Controlling Interest (NCI)
The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly,  
to the parent.
Occupancy Rate
The estimated rental value of let sqm as a percentage of the total 
estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development 
properties. It includes spaces under offer or subject to asset 
management (where they have been taken back for refurbishment 
and are not available to let as of financial position date).
Passing Rent
It is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under the 
head leases.
Portfolio Open Market Value (OMV) 
Portfolio open market value means the fair value of the Group’s 
investment properties determined by CBAR Research & Valuation 
Advisors SRL (Coldwell Banker), independent professionally qualified 
valuers who hold a recognised relevant professional qualification  
and have recent experience in the locations and segments of the 
investment properties valued, using recognised valuation techniques.
Property Valuation “As Is”
Represents the appraised value for standing and operational 
properties (owned and announced), properties under development 
and land, performed by Coldwell Banker as of financial position date.
Property Valuation on “Completion”
Represents the appraised value for standing and operational 
properties (owned and announced), properties under development 
and land, performed by Coldwell Banker as of financial position date, 
assuming that the properties under development were completed  
as of the date of valuation. The estimated appraised values on 
completion are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause 
actual outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied 
by the relevant statements; they are not guarantees of future 
performance and there can be no assurance that these estimated 
values on completion can or will be achieved.
Residual Value Method
Valuation method that estimated the difference between the market 
value of the building upon completion that can be built on the plot of 
land and all the building’s construction costs, as well as the 
developer’s profit. This method relies on the contribution concept by 
estimating from the future income of the building, the amount that 
can be distributed to the land.
Sales Comparison Approach
Valuation method that compares the subject property with quoted 
prices of similar properties in the same or similar location.
SEE
South-Eastern Europe, in alphabetical order, Albania, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Greece, Kosovo, Moldova, 
F.Y.R. Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Turkey.
SPA
Share sale purchase agreement.
SQM
Square metres.
Stabilised Vacancy
It represents the reasonably estimated vacancy rate registered  
by the building with the proper marketing, management and 
maintenance conditions.
Terminal Value
The value of an asset at a specified, future valuation date, taking into 
account factors such as discount rates and the current value of the 
asset, and assuming a stable growth rate. Terminal value refers to the 
value of an entire property at a specified future valuation date. The 
common approach used to evaluate the terminal value of an asset is 
the “exit approach”.
The Company or the Group
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited and its subsidiaries.
The Investment Adviser
Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited, a wholly owned holding 
subsidiary incorporated in Guernsey.  154 155 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
The Asset Manager
Globalworth Asset Managers SRL, an Asset Holding and Asset 
Manager wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in Romania.
WALL
Represents the remaining weighted average lease length of the 
contracted leases as of the financial position date, until the lease 
contracts full expiration.
Weighted Average Interest Rate
The average of the interest rate charged on the Group’s loans, 
weighted by the relative outstanding balance of each loan at the year 
or period end.
COMPANY DIRECTORY
Registered Office
Ground Floor 
Dorey Court 
Admiral Park 
St Peter Port 
Guernsey 
GY1 2HT
Nominated Adviser and Joint Broker
Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited
One New Change
London 
EC4M 9AF
United Kingdom
Investment Adviser*
Globalworth Investment Advisers Limited
Ground Floor
Dorey Court        
Admiral Park
St Peter Port
Guernsey
GY1 2HT
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Royal Chambers
St. Julians Avenue
St. Peter Port
Guernsey
GY1 4AF
Registrar
Capita Registrars (Guernsey) Limited
Mont Crevalt House
Bulwer Avenue
St. Sampson
Guernsey
GY2 4LH
Public Relations
Milbourne
1 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9AW
United Kingdom
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company 
Administrator and Company Secretary
JTC (Guernsey) Limited
PO Box 156 
Ground Floor 
Dorey Court 
Admiral Park 
St Peter Port 
Guernsey 
GY1 4EU
Joint Broker
Cantor Fitzgerald Europe
One Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London E14 5RB
Asset Manager*
Globalworth Tower 
26th Floor 
201 Barbu Vacarescu Boulevard  
2nd district  
Bucharest 020276 
Romania
Legal Advisers – English Law
Sidley Austin LLP
Woolgate Exchange
25 Basinghall Street
London
EC2V 5HA
United Kingdom
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (UK) LLP
40 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf
London 
E14 5DS
United Kingdom
Advocates – Guernsey Law
Carey Olsen
PO Box 98
Carey House
Les Banques
St. Peter Port
Guernsey
GY1 4BZ
Legal Adviser – Romanian Law
Nestor Nestor Diculescu Kingston Petersen
Globalworth Tower 
18th Floor 
201 Barbu Vacarescu Boulevard  
2nd district  
Bucharest 020276 
Romania
GLOSSARY  
CONTINUED THE LEADING  
OFFICE  
INVESTOR  
IN ROMANIA
 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Ground Floor
Dorey Court 
Admiral Park  
St Peter Port  
Guernsey GY1 2HT 
Globalworth Tower
26th Floor
201 Barbu Vacarescu Boulevard, 
2nd district
Bucharest, 020276
Romania 
Globalworth Real Estate Investments Limited 
Tel: +4 (0) 372 800 000
Fax: +4 (0) 371 600 000
Email: enquiries@globalworth.com 
www.globalworth.com 
 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
globalworth
TM
