 Focused on 
every journey
Annual Report and Accounts  
for the year ended 2 July 2016 Go-Ahead is one of the UK’s leading public 
transport providers enabling more than a billion 
journeys each year on our bus and rail services. 
At Go-Ahead we place great importance on 
partnership, adopting a collaborative approach 
with governments, local communities and 
strategic partners; developing and operating 
services that create long term value for all of us.
Contents About us
Strategic report
2	 Go-Ahead 	 at 	 a 	 glance
4	 Group 	 Q&A
8	 Chair man’ s 	 statement
10	 Group 	 Chief 	 Ex ecutiv e’ s 	 review 	 and 	 Q&A
16	 Our 	 b usiness 	 model
18	 Our 	 core 	 b usiness 	 units
20	 Our 	 mar k ets
23	 Our 	 str ategy 	 and 	 k ey 	 perf or mance 	 indicator s	
40	 Managing 	 r isk
46	 Finance 	 review
50	 Business 	 review
Governance
58	 Introduction 	 to 	 cor por ate 	 go v er nance
60	 Board 	 of 	 director s
62	 Cor por ate 	 go v er nance 	 repor t
71	 Audit 	 committee 	 repor t
80	 Nomination 	 committee 	 repor t
84	 Director s’ 	 rem uner ation 	 repor t
104	 Director s’ 	 repor t
107	 Director s’ 	 statement 	 of 	 responsibility
Financial statements
108	 Independent 	 auditor’ s 	 repor t 	 to 	 the	
member s 	 of 		 The 	 Go-Ahead 	 Group 	 plc
112	 Consolidated 	 income 	 statement
114	 Consolidated 	 statement 	 of	 	
comprehensiv e 	 income
115	 Consolidated 	 statement 	 of 	 changes 	 in 	 equity
116	 Consolidated 	 balance 	 sheet
118	 Consolidated 	 cashflo w 	 statement
120	 Cr itical 	 accounting 	 judgements
121	 Notes 	 to 	 the 	 consolidated	 	
f inancial 	 statements
159	 Compan y 	 statement 	 of 	 comprehensiv e	
income
160	 Compan y 	 statement 	 of 	 changes 	 in 	 equity
161	 Compan y 	 balance 	 sheet
162	 Director s’ 	 responsibilities 	 in 	 relation 	 to	 	
the 	 Compan y 	 f inancial 	 statements
163	 Notes 	 to 	 the 	 Compan y 	 f inancial 	 statements
Shareholder information
173	 Shareholder 	 inf or mation, 	 f inancial 	 calendar
176	 Cor por ate 	 inf or mation
Our Board
Our 	 Board 	 has 	 a 	 wide 	 r ange 	 of	
skills 	 and 	 responsibilities.
Governance
W e 	 are 	 committed 	 to 	 a 	 rob ust	
go v er nance 	 fr amew or k.
Our financial results
W e 	 are 	 committed 	 to	
tr ansparent 	 and 	 clear 	 repor ting.
Our strategic priorities
Our leadership team
Chairman’s statement Group Chief Executive’s review Finance review
Society
T o 	 r un 	 our 	 companies	
in 	 a 	 saf e , 	 sociall y 	 and	
en vironmentall y	
responsib le 	 manner .
Customers
T o 	 pro vide 	 high	 	
quality , 	 locall y	 	
f ocused 	 passenger	
tr anspor t 	 ser vices.
Our people
T o 	 be 	 a 	 leading	
emplo y er 	 in 	 the	
tr anspor t 	 sector .
Finance
T o 	 r un 	 our 	 b usiness	
with 	 strong 	 f inancial	
discipline 	 to	 	
deliv er 	 sustainab le	
shareholder 	 value .
Our integrated approach
Sustainability 	 and 	 cor por ate 	 responsibility 	 are 	 integr al 	 to 	 our 	 str ategy 	 and 	 the 	 wa y 	 w e 	 oper ate 	 at 	 ev er y 	
lev el 	 of 	 the 	 b usiness. 	 This 	 is 	 our 	 f our th 	 integr ated 	 ann ual 	 repor t 	 which 	 aims 	 to 	 present 	 a 	 comprehensiv e	
view 	 of 	 the 	 Group . 	
See more from page 60 
onwards
See more on page 8
See more from page 23 onwards
See more from page 58 
onwards
See more on page 10 See more on page 46
See more from page 112 
onwards
Link edin.com/compan y/The-Go-Ahead-Group-PLC T witter .com/TheGoAheadGroup
Go-Ahead online
For 	 more 	 inf or mation 	 about 	 The 	 Go-Ahead 	 Group 	 and 	 our 	 oper ating 	 companies, 	 visit: 	 www .go-ahead.com
Follow us on: The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 1
Creating long 
term value for 
all stakeholders
Our strategic report for the year 
ended 2 July 2016, as set out on pages 
2 to 57, and the directors’ report, on 
pages 104 to 107, have been reviewed 
and approved by the Board 
of directors.
Andrew Allner,
Chairman
8 September 2016
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 1
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Go-Ahead at a glance
It has been a year of financial progress in all three divisions. Our market 
positions have been strengthened, with organic growth supported by 
contract wins and extensions. As part of a targeted programme, we are 
pleased to have won new business in Singapore and Germany. We continue 
to explore similar opportunities in these and other selected markets.
Review of the year
Our performance at a glance
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
Economic contribution
Total revenue £3,361.3m
Our directors’ remuneration report 
can be found on page 84
Financial highlights
• Overall results slightly ahead of management expectations 
• Achieved £100m bus target; adjusted operating profit* up  
8.0% to £100.4m
• Regional bus adjusted operating profit* up 9.4% to £53.3m.  
Passenger growth in the second half of the year
• London bus adjusted operating profit* up 6.3% to £47.1m despite  
a significant reduction in QICs income
• Rail adjusted operating profit* at £57.0m with a margin of 2.3%. 
Contribution to the DfT in the year of £222.4m
• Statutory operating profit in bus and rail was £91.2m (2015: £80.7m)  
and £26.2m (2015: £16.1m) respectively 
• Strong cashflow and robust balance sheet
• Proposed full year dividend increased by 6.5% or 5.85p to 95.85p
Strategic and operational progress
• Difficult year in GTR – working closely with the DfT and Network Rail  
to improve services to customers
• Sector-leading customer satisfaction score of 89% in regional  
bus operations 
• Record passenger numbers in rail division
• Shortlisted to bid for the West Midlands franchise
• Retained high levels of customer satisfaction at London Midland of 86%
• Entry into new overseas markets with contract wins in the Singaporean 
bus market and German rail market
• Adopted the voluntary ‘Living Wage’ across the Group, ensuring all 
employees, regardless of age, earn at least £8.25 per hour exceeding  
the ‘National Living Wage’ requirements
* Adjusted results exclude amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating 
costs, and the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) as shown on page 46
Directors’ remuneration
We report a single remuneration figure for executive directors which 
includes salary, annual performance-related bonus, long term incentive bonus 
and other benefits. A substantial part of executive directors’ remuneration is 
performance-related and linked to key performance indicators.
Sustainability highlights
• 95% sustainability rating assigned by Business in the Community
• Highest Carbon Disclosure Project score amongst our peers
• First FTSE 350 company to achieve the Fair T ax Mark for  
responsible tax practice
• First transport Group to achieve the Carbon Trust triple accreditation for 
carbon, water and waste
Payments to suppliers £1,697.4m
Staff costs inclusive of PAYE £1,123.3m
National Insurance costs £92.2m
Net rail contributions to DfT £222.4m
Dividends paid to shareholders £39.4m
Capital expenditure £113.9m
Corporation tax payments to government £24.8m
Finance costs £17.6m
Retained in equity £30.3m
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
The Go-Ahead 
Group plc
FTSE 250 Index Peer group 
(average return)
50
100
150
200
250
300
2 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In line with our progressive dividend policy and 
the interim dividend, a final dividend of 67.52p 
has been proposed. This would provide a total for 
the year of 95.85p.
The year on year rate in this metric has improved 
by 2.34% and we continue to make progress 
towards our 10% reduction target by 2018 on a 
2014/15 baseline. We have already made 
significant improvements in this area and carbon 
emissions per passenger journey have reduced 
16.11% on a like for like basis since our original 
2007/08 baseline.
Our regional bus passenger satisfaction scores 
remain industry leading. The overall score in our 
rail division was impacted by the significant 
infrastructure improvement works taking place 
as part of the government’s £6.5bn Thameslink 
Programme.
Group key facts
Group revenue rose £146.1m, or 4.5%, in  
the year, with growth in both bus and rail.
Total revenue (£m)
£3,361.3m +4.5%
Dividend paid and proposed 
per share (p)
95.85p +6.5%
Carbon emissions per 
passenger journey (kg)
0.82kg -2.34%
Customer satisfaction (%)
Regional bus 89% -1ppt
Rail 75% -1ppt
Adjusted operating profit increased by £22.7m,  
or 16.9%, ahead of the Board’s expectations. 
Adjusted operating profit excludes the 
incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised),  
amortisation and goodwill impairment.
Total adjusted operating profit (£m)
£157.4m +16.9%
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) rose by 38.7p, 
or 21.3%, reflecting increasing operating profit and 
taking the non-controlling interest in our rail 
division into account. Adjusted earnings per 
share excludes the incremental impact of IAS 19 
(revised), amortisation and goodwill impairment.
Adjusted EPS and the impact 
of IAS 19 (revised)
220.5p +21.3%
Regional bus Rail London bus
16 15 14 13 12
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
1,732.5
378.4
312.9
1,810.3
423.9
337.6
1,901.9
449.7
350.8
2,397.4
457.9
359.9
2,498.0
2,423.8 2,571.8 2,702.4 3,215.2 3,361.3
487.6
375.7
16 15 14 13 12
157.4 134.7 118.8 102.5 110.2
Operating profit (before amortisation, goodwill 
impairment and exceptional operating costs)
Statutory operating profit
Impact of IAS 19 (revised)
50
100
150
200
20.0
114.7
120.4
117.4
37.0
103.2
15.6
15.8
86.7
14.6
100.5
80.2
109.5
96.8 95.6
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
20
40
60
80
100
81.0 81.0
84.5
90.0
95.85
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 08
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.82
0.84
0.83
0.97
0.82
0.85
1 6 15 14 13 12
20
40
60
80
100
83
90
78
90
92
76
90
75
89
77
Regional bus Rail
50
100
150
200
250
Adjusted EPS including 
impact of IAS 19 (revised)
Impact of IAS 19 (revised)
Basic EPS
16 15 14 13 12
 167.2
162.3
53.3
31.0
150.8 148.6
24.0
22.0
117.6
18.1
220.5 181.8 172.6 139.6 141.9
123.8
129.5
125.3
164.0
121.6
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 3
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 3 Responding to a 
changing world
Evolving regulatory, socio-economic and technological factors impact on our 
sector. Go-Ahead seeks to be agile and flexible in order to effectively position itself 
and manage change. We are committed to building a sustainable competitive 
advantage. We have an established UK business and remain focused on our 
core markets, while looking for value adding investments elsewhere.
1
 What does Brexit mean for the UK bus and rail sector? page 5
2
 How is Go-Ahead positioned to face the uncertainties surrounding Brexit? page 5
3
 What is the Bus Services Bill and its potential impact on the market? page 5
4
 What does the future hold for rural bus services? page 5
5
 Congestion on the roads is a problem. What can be done? page 5
6
  Some parts of Britain’s rail networks are operating at full capacity 
- what are the plans to alleviate these limitations? page 6
7
 How is public transport keeping pace with technological change and innovation? page 6
8
  What is your approach to remuneration and paying a fair price for success? page 7
9
 What are the Board’s plans for Capital returns? page 7
4 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group Q&A authority and bus operator. Go-Ahead’s ongoing innovations and 
investment in local transport services have repeatedly been 
recognised through industry-leading customer satisfaction scores.
We continue to work with the DfT on the important secondary 
legislation that underpins implementation of the Bill. It is vital that a 
robust evaluation framework be included in the legislation to 
ensure that any local authority proposing regulating services has to 
demonstrate that it is in the interests of both customers and 
taxpayers – a key lesson learnt from the findings of the independent 
Quality Contracts Scheme Board on the proposals for  
Tyne and Wear.
What does the future hold 
for rural bus services?
Local authorities are responsible for tendering local bus services in 
rural parts of the country where population and demand are lower 
and commercial services are not viable. Councils know how 
important buses are for their communities and local economies and 
would like to protect them. However, reductions in local authority 
funding have resulted in significant cuts to bus services supported 
by local authorities. Many across the country are reluctantly taking 
difficult decisions to scale back services and review subsidised 
routes as a result. Fortunately, as part of the government’s Spending 
Review in 2015 it was announced that the Bus Service Operators 
Grant (BSOG) would be protected in the near term. BSOG is one 
of the elements enabling operators to keep fares affordable and 
continue running services that might otherwise be unprofitable and 
therefore vulnerable to cancellation. But the longer term outlook 
for many of these services remains uncertain. Go-Ahead has a 
longstanding commitment to delivering high quality and value for 
money services to our local markets. T ogether with local authorities 
we are looking at new and innovative ways of running buses against 
this background of funding cuts and assisting them to find ways that 
bus services can be operated sustainably commercially to avoid 
additional pressure on local taxpayers.
Congestion on the roads is a 
problem. What can be done?
This is a significant issue facing the industry in many parts of the 
country and the role of local authorities is crucial. Our bus 
companies are working together with their local authorities to 
ensure that travelling by bus remains an attractive and viable choice, 
with bus priority schemes being actively managed and close liaison 
and collaboration during roadworks and local events.
A 2016 Greener Journeys report states that in the last 50 years bus 
journey times have increased by almost 50% in the more congested 
urban areas and if we had protected bus passengers from the 
growth in congestion there would arguably be between 48% and 
70% more paying bus passenger journeys today.
4
5
What does Brexit mean for the 
UK bus and rail sector?
It is currently unclear what Brexit means for UK economic growth 
and transport volumes. There are a myriad of factors that affect use 
of public transport. In the case of an economic slowdown it is 
reasonable to anticipate that if unemployment rises and incomes 
are squeezed, passenger numbers in some areas of the sector could 
decline, especially for discretionary travel. However, there are a 
number of substitution effects that can increase demand. For 
example, among commuters an increase in part time work could 
result in more journeys. Rather than fly abroad more people may 
holiday within the UK using domestic bus and rail. A weaker pound 
will put upward pressure on the cost of fuel, which historically has 
led to a modal shift from private car to public transport.
Beyond the macroeconomics, the impact on transport depends 
partly on what deal the British government negotiates with its EU 
counterparts. The transport sector is heavily regulated at the EU 
level but it is expected that many of the EU’s standards and 
regulations the UK will continue to apply and, in many instances, the 
standards and regulations implemented by the UK will be similar, if 
not identical, to the EU’s. The UK is likely to remain part of a 
liberalised and integrated European rail system and we fully expect 
that the ability of UK transport companies to tender for EU/EEA 
rail franchises would be virtually unchanged by Brexit, irrespective of 
the model adopted.
How is Go-Ahead positioned to face the 
uncertainties surrounding Brexit?
With a robust business model, Go-Ahead is well positioned. The 
Group’s rail business operates largely on commuter routes in and 
out of London. Rail profits are also less sensitive to changes in 
passenger volumes than bus profits. GTR is a gross cost contract, 
while Southeastern and London Midland operate within a 
profit-share mechanism and so are to a large extent insulated from 
revenue movements in the short term. We believe that any 
downturn would be capable of being absorbed within the 
remaining life of the London Midland and Southeastern contracts.  
In bus, the Group has regional businesses that are well positioned 
geographically, while London bus operations do not bear  
revenue risk. Enhanced customer service offers will also be 
increasingly important to help differentiate our services from  
those of our competitors.
What is the Bus Services Bill and its 
potential impact on the market?
The Bill is legislation that enables local authorities outside London 
to take a number of different approaches to regional bus services. It 
is not about mandating any particular approach to the management 
of bus services. Nor does it impose wholesale reregulation. The Bill 
grants devolved powers to regulate services, subject to certain 
criteria being satisfied. Importantly, it will also build on the strengths 
and successes of existing partnership arrangements. A continuing 
flow of private sector capital investment will remain crucial to meet 
important public policy objectives, as well as keep pace with 
demographic change and new technology that is rapidly 
transforming the passenger experience. In regions where bus usage 
is growing there is typically a close partnership between the local 
1
2
3
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 5 An increasing volume of roadworks, public realm and cycle 
superhighway improvements in London are causing congestion and 
some routes operated on behalf of TfL have slowed considerably. 
This has impacted on the number of passengers and our London 
bus division’s ability to earn Quality Incentive Contract (QIC) 
payments in the past year. The report estimates that for 
approximately one third of London’s routes the decline has been 
more than five times the 1% UK average in the past year. We have 
been working with TfL to address this and towards the end of the 
financial year we were pleased to have seen some return of QICs 
due to congestion easing on some routes.
Smartcards and m-ticketing (mobile phone app tickets) have a 
strong role to play in reducing overall journey times by reducing the 
dwell time necessary at bus stops for cash transactions. Research 
shows that dwell times can make up to 25 to 30% of total journey 
times. With more than 850 thousand smartcards in circulation and 
an increasing number of m-tickets being used Go-Ahead has long 
led the way to provide customers with easier, more convenient and 
flexible ways to pay for and speed up their journeys.
Some parts of Britain’s rail network are 
operating at full capacity - what are the 
plans to alleviate these limitations?
Every day more than 4.5m journeys are made on UK rail services 
with the number of passengers doubling in the last 20 years. On 
significant parts of the rail network such as the Southern and 
Thameslink routes passenger numbers have risen by 40% and 32% 
respectively in the past five years. Additional train services and 
longer platforms have been added in a piecemeal fashion to try to 
keep up with the growing demand, but due to the lack of 
investment in additional infrastructure capacity the punctuality of 
services has inevitably declined over the same period. On the 
Southeastern network south London services also are constrained 
by limited network capacity.
Across the UK the government and rail industry are investing 
billions innovating and working to improve reliability, increase 
capacity and modernise retailing and information. There are several 
major projects coming to completion in the next few years that will 
cut delays and congestion.
The recent East Coast £348m Hitchin flyover removing a major 
bottleneck for services on the East Coast main line delivers more 
than 1.4bn punctual journeys annually compared with up to 600m 
in the year 1997/ 98. The government’s Intercity Express 
programme on the Great Western line will see new larger trains on 
the Great Western line from 2017 and from 2018 on the East 
Coast main line.
The Thameslink Programme, underway now, is long overdue, and 
the £6.5bn project is transforming one of the busiest stretches of 
railway in Europe. New trains will add more than 30,000 seats in 
the Thameslink core, between Blackfriars and St Pancras and 
passengers departing from Bedford to London will benefit from 
2,500 more seats in the morning peak. Journeys will be more 
reliable with trains every two to three minutes in each direction 
through central London at the busiest times.
6
Group Q&A continued
From 2018 Thameslink services will also connect with Crossrail 
services at Farringdon. Crossrail, Europe’s largest construction 
project, will be fully complete by 2020 and will increase central 
London rail capacity by 10% as well as reducing journey times.
GTR, which operates the Southern and Thameslink routes, is 
strengthening its fleet maintenance and progressing driver 
recruitment and training to increase punctuality and meet the huge 
driver training requirements arising from the introduction of new 
trains. Bringing new trains into service boosting capacity and 
improving reliability are all part of a larger modernisation of the 
railway that GTR is undertaking. It is organising its people to be 
more customer-focused and on-hand when and where passengers 
say they need them most. Regrettably this has contributed to union 
unrest at the company, impacting on services over the spring and 
summer of 2016. It is important to stress the Thameslink 
Programme, and the modernisation associated with it, is a 
once-in-a-generation scheme addressing the issues of phenomenal 
passenger growth and underinvestment in the infrastructure.
How is public transport keeping pace with 
technological change and innovation?
The pace of change in the transport sector has increased in recent 
times. Innovations and inventions such as automated vehicles that 
once seemed a distant possibility are now a tangible reality. 
Modernisation is necessary to remain a sustainable and 
relevant business.
The transport industry also needs to be ready to respond to 
change as well as pre-empt and instigate it. Uber and other ventures 
such as BlaBlaCar are challenging the status quo of the transport 
industry, and we will continue to partner with technology 
companies to develop apps and other services to improve journey 
planning and on-the-move information to create a smoother end-to 
end journey experience. Go-Ahead continually upgrades and 
updates its apps using customer feedback and testing to ensure the 
user experience is agile, responsive and intuitive. We are now 
focusing on personalisation where the tool recognises the individual 
customer’s travel patterns and offers suggestions for the journey 
they wish to make.
Similarly, investment in design and manufacture such as self-drive 
capability, electrification and greater automation is advancing more 
quickly than for larger vehicles such as buses and coaches. The 
motor industry is investing heavily in making greener, fuel efficient 
vehicles and it is important that bus manufacturers do not lag 
behind. We are the first operator in London to introduce a fully 
electric fleet at our Waterloo depot supported by TfL. We invest in 
low emission buses across all our operating companies and our 
average fleet age is 7.8 years, helping to ensure we reduce carbon 
emissions and contribute to improving air quality in the 
communities we serve.
7
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What is your approach to remuneration 
and paying a fair price for success?
It has long been established that retaining engaged and motivated 
employees is not only the right thing to do, but also financially 
beneficial. Losing key people is a risk to success and over the  
past five years we have introduced comprehensive succession  
plans across the Group to consider our current and future 
capability requirements.
We believe in being a fair employer and we are pleased to say we 
have adopted the voluntary Living Wage of £8.25 per hour across 
all of our companies. This exceeds the government’s National Living 
Wage of £7.20 per hour, introduced in April 2016. While pay is, of 
course, an important way to motivate and retain employees we 
also aim to create long term benefits for our people. In the past 
year we launched the second Go-Ahead Sharesave scheme in four 
years, aimed at encouraging our people to invest alongside our 
shareholders, increasing their vested interest in the Group’s success.
In a challenging environment, our executive leadership team has 
delivered strong performance – with a focus on the long term 
sustainability of the business. Our approach to remuneration is 
linked to the delivery of our strategy and focused on consistently 
improving performance. We have set out a clear strategy with a 
comprehensive set of actions to improve returns. We carefully 
consider elements that make our business successful in both the 
short and long term and we place emphasis on long term 
improvements that are measurable and based on a range of issues 
across the organisation. We hold our executive leadership team 
accountable for those elements that are within their control and 
there is a strong alignment between the Group’s performance and 
the remuneration of executive directors.
It is inevitable and understandable that our industry, providing a vital 
public service, will be under scrutiny, and our approach is to be 
transparent and open about executive remuneration. Read our full 
directors’ remuneration report page 84.
What are the Board’s plans 
for capital returns
The Board was pleased to propose another increase to the full year 
dividend this year, recognising the importance of our dividend to 
the investment decision of many of our shareholders.
The increase in bus profitability over the last five years, and the 
strengthening of our balance sheet, means that the Group now has 
more choices about how we allocate capital.
Our approach is designed to ensure capital is used effectively.  
Our priority is to sustain profits from existing businesses and meet 
commitments in franchises or other contracts. Furthermore, we 
consider the use of capital to provide for risks and contingencies, 
bid for opportunities in agreed target markets and support new 
franchises or contracts, in addition to making attractive returns  
to shareholders. Our capital allocation policy is continually 
under review.
8
9
Focused on technology to improve customer journeys
With more customers using smartphones and other devices to 
organise their leisure and travel plans we need to make sure that our 
information is easily accessible online for customers. According to 
Ofcom* smartphones in the UK have overtaken laptops as internet 
users’ number one device. Some 93% of the adult population own or 
use a mobile phone with 71% having a smartphone. So we are focused 
on using mobile technology to personalise and improve our 
customers’ experience.
Planning and making journeys
Go-Ahead is providing elements of its data to enable app developers 
to include realtime transport information in journey planning apps. 
Google transit planner now includes some 85% of Go-Ahead’s regional 
bus realtime operational data. We know for many journeys the bus will 
compare favourably with the private car, particularly where local 
authorities have bus priority measures in place. Similarly, the rail 
industry’s timetable and realtime data is available both for industry 
online web planners and also for third parties. Our new Gatwick 
Express app includes airline arrival and departure times – as well as 
realtime train information aimed at providing the most useful 
information for people going to the airport.
Navigating large stations can be daunting for some infrequent travellers. 
So Go-Ahead, together with Network Rail and technology companies, 
have installed Bluetooth beacons into London Bridge station to provide 
customers with intelligent and dynamic ways around the station - 
particularly useful during the station’s rebuild. This trial is part of 
‘HackTrain’ 2016 event and is sponsored by Go-Ahead and other 
transport companies and is an opportunity for technology start-ups  
to use their entrepreneurial innovation for the benefit of the rail 
industry customers.
Almost 40% of our Regional buses have free Wifi for customers to use 
while travelling. In the past year more than 100 GTR stations have been 
installed with free Wifi and the new 108 Gatwick Express carriages also 
have Wifi installed.
Paying for travel
While some people may still wish to pay with cash, for increasing 
numbers of our customers’ payments are made with smartcards, 
m-tickets (tickets on mobile phones) or through online secure systems 
such as Paypal and Pingit. As high street shops take contactless 
payments so Go-Ahead will be upgrading its onboard bus ticket 
systems to enable contactless payments to be made also. A full range  
of tickets available online means that customers no longer need to 
queue at ticket offices, although there is more to do to support 
customers to feel confident they are buying the correct, best value  
fare for their journey, online.
Our rail apps enable customers to claim ‘delay repay’ compensation 
when their journey has been delayed – and work is underway for this 
process to be automated to provide a more personalised service.
Social media
Social media enables customers to help each other with advice on 
where to go, what to avoid, and what to expect. With the advent of 
services such as Airbnb, apps such as Tripadvisor, it is clear that 
peer-to-peer shared opinions have a strong value. Company 
reputations can be diminished by consumers’ appetite for sharing when 
things go wrong. People are willing to share their opinions and 
recommendations via social media with complete strangers and these 
comments are often trusted more than official channels of information. 
All our operating companies actively engage with customers using 
social media and aim to use this to increase the depth of the 
relationship they have with customers by answering individuals’ 
comments and questions. Across the Group this data is useful and we 
analyse social media trends to help us shape our services to better suit 
our customers’ needs.
* Ofcom 2015 Communications Market Report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 7
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report 8 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
we are clear what we stand for today and what we need to 
stand for in the future. We believe that the trust our people 
and our customers place in us must be earned every day and 
that is why we are committed to taking care of every journey.
Performance
Overall, the Group delivered robust financial performance in 
the year, demonstrating the effectiveness of our long standing 
strategy of providing high quality and locally focused passenger 
transport services. We achieved good profit growth in our bus 
business, despite a number of headwinds and, as planned, have 
met the £100m profit target when adjusting for the impact of 
IAS 19 (revised). Importantly, customer satisfaction in our 
regional bus continues to lead the industry. In London we 
remain the largest bus operator.
In rail, our Southeastern and London Midland franchises 
recorded strong financial results. London Midland was also 
successful in securing a direct award contract and achieved  
a strong customer satisfaction score of 86%. Early in the year 
Southern and Gatwick Express were integrated into GTR, 
resulting in the creation of a new business and new  
leadership team.
During the year we continued to invest in future growth with 
further disciplined capital investments across the Group to 
make our existing business more attractive to our customers. 
We will continue to invest in the talent and skills of our people, 
through training and development, and by enabling them to 
network across the Group to learn from each other. We will 
also continue to invest in long term relationship building. Our 
future lies in our ability to engage with stakeholders and 
develop appropriate solutions to their needs.
Go-Ahead is developing an increasingly diverse portfolio of 
operations that will reduce our dependence on any single 
market or contract and ensures we have excellent knowledge 
of, and access to, a range of new opportunities. This year we 
are pleased to have won business in two overseas markets. In 
Singapore, Go-Ahead was successful in its bid for a five-year 
bus services contract, while in Germany the Group was 
awarded two contracts for rail services.
Dividend
Our underlying business performance and confidence in the 
medium term outlook have enabled the Board to propose a 
2016 final dividend of 67.52p per share, supported by bus 
Dear Shareholder
We have delivered robust results for the year slightly ahead of 
our expectations and have achieved high levels of passenger 
satisfaction in the majority of our businesses. However, we have 
seen challenges in the year with particular difficulties in the 
GTR franchise, which has faced operational issues and capacity 
constraints associated with the Thameslink Programme from 
the start. This complex franchise, on which more than one 
million passenger journeys are made every weekday, is being 
modernised to meet ever-growing demand. Regrettably 
industrial action has compounded disruption on the network 
and, as a result, we have not provided the levels of reliability 
and service our passengers expect. As previously announced 
our margin on the GTR franchise over the life of the franchise 
is now expected to be lower than originally forecast.
Y our Board is very focused on addressing these issues along 
with key partners. We are sorry that the introduction of 
changes, which will be of great benefit in the longer term, is 
creating inconvenience and hardship for passengers.  
I appreciate how frustrating and difficult it is when things  
go wrong.
Y our Group has a highly experienced and committed 
management team with integrity, a clear strategy and a strong 
focus on improving passenger satisfaction. I believe that, with 
continued government support, we are well placed to address 
the challenges and to bring about the improvements in service 
to which we aspire.
Contributing to society
At Go-Ahead, the contribution we make to society is 
important to us. We need to ensure the Group is in a sound 
financial position and that our investors and lenders make 
appropriate returns for the capital and debt they provide and 
the risks involved. This then enables us to focus on our role  
in society which is to provide reliable and high quality  
public transport.
Y our Board spends considerable time on shaping our Group’s 
culture, which guides us as we renew and advance the business. 
Doing the right thing for our customers has always been a core 
part of who we are, and drives our ongoing improvement.
Y our Chief Executive, David Brown, has recently led a review of 
Go-Ahead’s vision, beliefs and attitudes, which underpin our 
culture. Through talking to a wide cross-section of stakeholders, 
including employees and industry partners, we are making sure 
Chairman’s statement
More information 
on page 46
Andrew Allner,
Chairman The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 9
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 9
division profitability. Combined with the interim dividend of 
28.33p per share, the proposed total dividend will be 95.85p 
per share, an increase of 6.5%. The final dividend will be paid on 
25 November 2016 to all shareholders on the register at close 
of business on 11 November 2016.
Y our Board has a clear capital allocation policy for the Group 
which is continually under review. We consider our policy for 
capital structure and how surplus cash is to be deployed 
between ongoing operations, investment in new franchises and 
new businesses, ongoing dividends to shareholders and 
possible further returns to shareholders. Our objective is to 
retain an efficient capital structure, whilst maintaining financial 
flexibility in the event of downside scenarios or new 
investment opportunities, and to provide additional returns to 
shareholders where it is prudent to do so.
Robust corporate governance
It has always been important to me that Go-Ahead’s Board 
functions as a key strategic partner and sounding board for 
management, challenging us all to be better. We pride ourselves 
on our reputation for conducting business activities in the 
highest ethical and professional manner, guided by our 
corporate governance principles and practices as well as strong 
Board oversight. The composition of the Board, with its diverse 
range of skills and experience, is one of our key strengths. The 
relationships we have fostered, both within and outside the 
boardroom, have strengthened Board dynamics.
Y our Board takes an active role in ensuring best corporate 
governance practices. During the year, we implemented the 
recommendations from the independent external Board 
evaluation conducted in 2015 and also undertook an internal 
Board evaluation. These reviews help us to continually improve 
and adapt to the changing needs of the business and ensure 
we are always operating in accordance with best practice.
Our people
At Go-Ahead we recognise that remuneration should be 
closely linked to performance. Whilst we have largely achieved 
the financial and strategic targets set at the beginning of the 
year it is clear that we have not delivered the required levels  
of passenger service on our Southern routes. As a result,  
David Brown, who in my view is an exceptional and committed 
Group Chief Executive, made it clear he does not wish to be 
considered for an annual bonus this year and declined a  
salary increase. 
At Go-Ahead we firmly believe in a pay-for-performance 
culture. In order to improve our focus on improving customer 
service and demonstrate our commitment to passengers we 
have made important changes to our remuneration 
arrangements. Last year we embedded customer service 
targets within long term incentive awards. In addition, this year 
we have introduced passenger satisfaction measures in our 
annual bonus plan.
As a public transport business it is ultimately the quality of the 
service we provide that will underpin our leadership in the 
transport sector. T o meet these challenges, our employees 
work hard to meet our customers’ needs. I would like to 
express the Board’s appreciation and thanks to all our 
employees for their contribution to another successful year for 
the Group.
“Doing the right thing for our customers has always been 
a core part of who we are, and drives our ongoing 
improvement of the organisation.”
More information 
on page 40
In March we welcomed Patrick Butcher, who was appointed to 
the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer. Patrick brings a 
wealth of industry experience, having joined from Network 
Rail where he was Group Finance Director since 2009. He has 
made an excellent start and is already making a valuable 
contribution to the Group.
I would also like to thank the previous Group Finance Director, 
Keith Down, for the significant contribution he made in his four 
years with the Group.
Looking ahead
Whilst the past year was challenging, good progress has been 
made on many fronts. These developments provide a solid 
base from which to take advantage of future opportunities. 
Our strategy of increased marketing, use of technology, the 
development of partnerships with local authorities and 
improved customer service is already producing results and will 
be the key to driving this business forward. A strategy of 
selective investment in operations outside the UK will increase 
our resilience and provide us with further growth opportunity.
With oversight from the Board, the GTR management team 
will continue the modernisation programme and focus on 
resolving issues locally.
The current fiscal year has started with change in the broader 
political and economic environment. Go-Ahead will continue 
to act to meet the needs of a changing world and prudently 
balance strategic growth with sound risk management 
practices. It remains crucial to maintain the advantages that 
well-managed public transport can bring to society, and to 
provide people with the mobility that is essential to our 
economic and social needs. However working patterns and the 
performance of different sectors of the economy may fluctuate, 
those needs will continue to provide opportunities for the 
public transport industry to serve its customers to mutual 
advantage. Go-Ahead is a high quality operator with leading 
market positions in the bus and rail sectors. Looking ahead,  
I am confident we will continue to deliver value for our 
customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Andrew Allner,
Chairman
8 September 2016 10 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Partnership and 
collaboration 
are key to public 
transport
everything we do. We strongly believe that today’s challenges 
are best met by working together. While seeking to maximise 
the benefits of operating together as one large organisation, 
our companies are locally managed and form an integral part 
of the communities they serve. T estament to our collaborative 
approach and understanding of local markets are the high 
levels of customer satisfaction in our regional bus operations, 
which remain the best in the sector at 89%.
Public transport is vital to building a strong and sustainable 
economy. Our services have continued to ensure that millions 
of people are able to get to work and access key services. 
Over the past year Go-Ahead has made a significant 
contribution to the UK economy through the 27,500 people 
we employ, the £222.4m generated by our rail operations for 
the government, and £24.8m paid in corporation tax. We are 
also pleased to have introduced the voluntary Living Wage as a 
minimum, irrespective of age, across the entire Group.
It has been a year of financial progress in all three divisions.  
Our market positions have been strengthened, with organic 
growth supported by contract wins and extensions. As part of 
a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won new 
business in Singapore and Germany. We operate in relatively 
resilient markets, and have a good balance between contract 
and passenger revenues.
Focus on partnership
At Go-Ahead we believe that public transport is about 
partnership. After almost 30 years of building Go-Ahead’s 
presence, the Group has established a valuable network of 
relationships, and a depth of market understanding and 
knowledge that cannot easily be replicated. Building 
relationships with passengers, central and local government, 
employees, industry partners and other stakeholders has 
always been core to the Group’s strategy and central to 
Group Chief Executive’s review
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
More information 
on page 51 £222.4m
Contribution to  
the DfT
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 11
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 11
social services. These businesses have also taken the initiative to 
comprehensively examine their services through the eyes of 
the customer and understand how they can be better.
In the regional bus market the regulatory framework is also 
evolving with the Bus Services Bill that is passing through 
Parliament. It is a very different Bill from the one envisaged a 
year ago as a result of the industry’s engagement with the DfT, 
with the Passenger Transport Executives and other 
stakeholders in order to protect the ethos of partnership 
working. It is vital that our bus companies remain embedded in 
local communities. We continue to work with the DfT on the 
important secondary legislation that underpins implementation 
of the Bill. T oward the end of 2015 we welcomed the report 
and findings of the independent Quality Contracts Scheme 
Board on Nexus’s proposals for Tyne and Wear, which 
concluded that the scheme failed to meet all the necessary 
statutory public interest tests. We believe that the overriding 
lesson of Tyne and Wear is that rigorous and independent 
scrutiny of major transport schemes is a necessity. Clear 
accountability must be in place where there is a fundamental 
change to the provision of bus services to safeguard the 
interests of customers and taxpayers. With reductions in overall 
public spending, a continuing flow of private sector capital 
investment will remain crucial to meet important public policy 
objectives, as well as keep pace with demographic change and 
new technology that is rapidly transforming the passenger 
expectations. Our strength in this sector ensures that we can 
be agile and are able to pursue other opportunities as and 
when they arise.
Rail
Our three rail franchises carry about a third of all passengers in 
the UK and we have more than 19 years’ experience of 
managing complex commuter franchises and delivering 
industry-leading projects.
The overall financial performance of our rail business was 
robust and slightly ahead of the Board’s expectations. Full year 
adjusted operating profit* for our rail businesses was £57.0m 
(2015: £41.7m). We are committed to the long term 
development of rail travel and are investing to improve services 
for passengers. In partnership with the DfT, Go-Ahead is at the 
forefront of some of the largest long term improvements in rail 
infrastructure in the UK.
The GTR franchise has experienced a difficult year 
operationally, and we share the frustration of customers who 
have experienced repeated disruption to their journeys and 
we apologise for this. The complex nature of the franchise has 
created significant challenges. The major Thameslink 
infrastructure programme will ultimately bring vital extra 
capacity, but it has caused large scale disruption through 
restricted network capacity, particularly in the phase of major 
works at London Bridge. Management continues to work 
closely with industry partners on implementing the complex 
change programme. This includes the introduction of more 
spacious trains and the evolution of the customer service role 
onboard and at stations across the GTR network, in adherence 
Our vision
Our people are critical to the success of the Group and we 
believe our new vision, attitudes and beliefs, once fully 
embedded into our corporate culture, will influence every 
aspect of our day-to-day activity and how we work. The 
common purpose of taking care of every journey will create 
advocacy among our customers, encourage people to use our 
services and ensure our people feel valued and appreciated.
Performance
Bus
At the core of the Group is our bus division, which delivered 
another good trading performance. This is the result of strong 
operations and service quality, as well as investment in new 
vehicles. Our bus operations have significant flexibility to 
respond quickly to changing market conditions and to ensure 
we remain resilient. While this is a mature market, 
opportunities for organic growth exist, as evidenced by the 
increased volume in the London market and the gains that 
have been achieved in other parts of the country as a result of 
investment and targeted marketing.
We have had a record year of profits from our regional bus 
division, which delivered adjusted operating profit* of £53.3m. 
Our sector leading margins, and the achievement of our 
£100m target, are a reflection of the hard work at our 
operating companies. The business is maintaining its strong 
position by focusing on improving the service, stimulating 
passenger growth and developing relationships with local 
authorities. We invested £72m in buses in the year, maintaining 
the average age of our fleet at 7.8 years. We also continued  
to invest in our services with more Wifi and USB charging 
points on buses, advertising, promotions and offers, and  
social media campaigns.
Go-Ahead remains the largest bus operator in London, with its 
growing population of residents and commuters. Over the past 
year roadworks and excessive congestion have limited our 
ability to earn Quality Incentive Contract bonuses. However, 
the underlying business is strong. We have retained our 24% 
market share with annual mileage of around 85 million miles. In 
the second half of the year we opened a new £7m bus depot, 
strategically located in Barking.
By understanding the varying needs of different customer 
groups we have shaped our bus networks and services to 
match demand. Innovative partnership working also continues 
to bring benefits for customers and stakeholders. Actions taken 
to maintain our position include: Brighton and Hove bus 
company championing accessible travel with the provision of 
wheelchair access on 100% of the fleet and other on-board 
innovations for disabled passengers; entry into the inter-urban 
market in Oxford with the launch of a new Birmingham 
express service; the installation of new ‘happy or not’ customer 
feedback machines on Plymouth City bus services; and a 
creative response to reduced public funding by Go South 
Coast to provide a unique combination of commercial and 
68.8%
Group profit from  
the bus division
£100.4m
Adjusted bus profit
More information 
on page 15
* Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to operating profit before 
amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 
in the finance review. 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The web and mobile platform provides highly personalised, 
realtime information to help customers find the best value 
ticket option available. Following introduction on Southern 
and Thameslink routes, On Track has been rolled out to all 
of Go-Ahead’s rail operations and integrated within its mobile 
app and ‘the key’ smartcard.
Whilst we were disappointed that our bids for the new 
Trans-Pennine Express and Northern Rail franchises were 
unsuccessful, the Board still believes that the UK rail sector can 
provide long term growth opportunities for the Group. The UK 
rail industry clearly has some considerable challenges, both 
financial and operational. We are an established operator and 
will be seeking to develop our role in the future of the sector.
Overseas contract wins
As part of a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won 
new business in Singapore and Germany. With efficient and 
effective transport remaining a priority for governments, there 
are further opportunities overseas. We continue to explore 
similar opportunities in these and other selected markets.
Go-Ahead was awarded a five-year contract to operate bus 
services in Singapore and is set for a successful launch of the 
25-route bus service operation from September 2016. 
Singapore’s bus contracts system is largely modelled on 
London’s and, as London’s largest bus operator, Go-Ahead has 
the right experience and expertise to deliver high quality 
services in Singapore. We look forward to competing in the 
next tender tranche of bus services, to be awarded early  
next year.
We were also successful this year in our aim to enter the 
German rail market, having been awarded two contracts to 
operate rail services in the Baden-Wurttemberg region from 
June 2019 until 2032. The German passenger rail market 
generates annual revenue of around €9.6bn and we are well 
placed to capitalise on future opportunities in this market.
A resilient business
Following the result of the EU referendum vote in June we are 
entering a period of economic uncertainty. The true impact of 
the vote is yet unknown, but it will weigh on the economy, and 
the transport industry is not immune. Nevertheless, the 
characteristics of our business make it resilient and relatively 
well positioned for change. Our strength is our portfolio of 
operations with robust revenues in less economically sensitive 
bus markets in the UK.
Our London bus business has no direct exposure to passenger 
revenues, and has an excellent record of contract retention. In 
the regional bus business, experience of previous slowdowns in 
the economy suggests that overall demand for bus travel is 
resilient. The flexible commercial nature of the industry further 
enables it to match supply to the level of demand. Go-Ahead’s 
position is reinforced by substantial investment in new fleet 
during the past few years, helping to improve the attractiveness 
to commitments in the franchise agreement with the DfT.  
We have instigated one of the largest driver recruitment 
programmes ever undertaken in the industry, but training a 
driver takes around 14 months so customers do not see the 
benefit of this straight away. We are confident that the 
Thameslink Programme will deliver real benefits for customers 
and the wider community. The DfT values the experienced 
management team in place at GTR which is best placed to 
steer these changes through. We are committed to the  
delivery of the franchise, enhancing service and building trust. 
We remain focused on delivering improvements, listening  
to our customers, and working with stakeholders to ensure  
the franchise has the resources needed to respond to  
growing demand.
Southeastern delivered a strong trading performance and 
continued to operate at maximum profit share, with payments 
of £39.9m made to the government in the year. For the 
remainder of the franchise the focus is to continue to improve 
the service for customers. The stated desire of the London 
Mayor and the London Assembly to devolve responsibility for 
the metro routes to TfL requires Secretary of State approval.  
If given, Southeastern would work with TfL and the DfT  
to ensure a smooth transition. From 2017, Go-Ahead’s  
rail development team will be working on a bid to retain  
the franchise.
London Midland continued its trend of improvement, reflected 
in strong customer satisfaction scores that have repeatedly 
increased. The franchise, which Go-Ahead has been operating 
since 2007, has been successful in terms of both operational 
and financial performance. Since 1 April 2016 the franchise has 
been operating under a new direct award contract. 
Management is focused on ensuring that committed obligations 
are delivered in a timely manner. In the fourth quarter 
Go-Ahead was pleased to be shortlisted to bid for the new 
West Midlands franchise beginning October 2017.
During the year, our joint venture On Track Retail launched its 
new online ticket sales system ‘On Track’ in October 2015. 
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
“We remain focused on delivering continued 
improvements, listening to our customers, 
and working with stakeholders to ensure 
the GTR franchise has the resources 
needed to respond to growing demand.”
Training and development
More than £18m spent on training  
and development of
More information 
on page 5
27,500 employees
Voluntary Living 
Wage adopted The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 13
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 13
Our new vision, beliefs and attitudes
Created in collaboration with employees at different 
levels across the Group and external stakeholders, 
these shape our focus, how we make decisions and 
how we behave.
and marketability of our services. In rail, we operate commuter 
routes in and out of London that are less discretionary in 
nature. Their unique position in relation to revenue support 
and profit share mechanisms will considerably mitigate the 
impact of any change in passenger numbers on our  
rail revenues.
As the external environment remains uncertain, we will be 
proactive in ensuring that the business remains robust. Our 
business offers value-orientated public transport services that 
are vital to the economy. We will remain focused on the 
delivery of existing services, while being agile to identify 
opportunities that this changing landscape brings.
Whilst there are clear links between economic activity and 
demand for our services, transport also enables growth. 
Change presents challenges for every part of the economy, 
transport included. It also provides strong motives for fresh 
thinking, and opportunities for innovation. In these times of 
regulatory, economic and social change, our future lies in our 
ability to engage with stakeholders and customers and develop 
solutions for their changing needs. With its wealth of 
knowledge and experience gained, Go-Ahead is well qualified 
and highly motivated to rise to the challenge.
Outlook
Go-Ahead has made substantial progress over the past year. 
The outlook and opportunities for the business are positive. 
Our strategy is clear and our business model robust. Our 
businesses have a track record of demonstrating the benefits 
that the private sector can bring to public transport. We will 
continue to work closely with partners at all levels to deliver 
value for money for our customers and stakeholders.
The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the 
second half of 2015/16. We expect continued moderate 
revenue growth in our bus division. Significantly reduced fuel 
costs will help offset headwinds such as contract reductions 
from lower local authority contracting. In London, we expect to 
see a year on year improvement in QICs payments as 
roadworks and congestion stabilise, which will help offset 
higher depreciation. Trading in the Southeastern and London 
Midland franchises continues to be robust and help offset 
weakness in GTR. We continue to explore overseas 
opportunities in selected markets.
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
8 September 2016
More information  
on pages 32 to 35
Our beliefs
‘A world where every journey is taken care of’ - is our 
new vision. T oday we are striving to provide a reliable 
service people can trust. T omorrow we will be building 
stress-free, predictive and seamless connected journeys.
We will take care of our customers’ every need 
transforming everyday journeys into positive experiences.
We believe in trusting people, being can-do people, 
building relationships and being one step ahead.
We are accountable, down-to-earth, collaborative 
and agile.
We believe in trusting our people to do their best  
and be accountable for what they are delivering.
We believe in being can-do people, who solve problems 
and are pragmatic with a down-to-earth attitude 
towards each other.
We believe in building relationships within our 
businesses, with our suppliers, partners and stakeholders 
and working collaboratively to achieve a greater good.
We believe in staying one step ahead of our 
competitors and emerging trends by working in an  
agile manner to identify opportunities to lead change.
Our vision
Our attitudes Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Topical 
questions 
from our 
shareholders 
answered
14 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How do you account for your resilient 
performance in regional bus?
“Our margins in regional bus now stand at 14.2%, 
When we started the journey to our £100m 
profit target in 2012, our Regional bus margins 
were at 11%. I am very pleased that this profit 
growth has been achieved sustainably. Revenue 
growth has been driven by strong contract 
income, while fares have increased in line with 
inflation. Go-Ahead has been successful because 
we continue to invest in our services, making life 
easier for our customers. We do it, for instance, 
through more Wifi, more audio-visual passenger 
information, online methods of payment and 
improved realtime information. We are giving 
passengers more choice and more flexibility, and 
are very pleased to have the joint highest 
customer satisfaction score in the UK of 89%. 
Partnership working with local authorities is how 
we have always conducted our business and it 
continues to bring benefits for customers. By 
understanding the varying needs of different 
markets we have successfully shaped our 
services to match demand.”
What are you doing to address the 
issues at your GTR franchise?
“The GTR franchise has been a challenge to run 
since its inception in September 2014. The 
industry and DfT accepts that the £6.5bn 
Thameslink Programme upgrade including the 
rebuilding of London Bridge station has had a 
greater impact on the resilience of those routes 
and neighbouring routes than expected in the 
planning and forecasting stage for the 
new franchise.
“More than 3,000 train services a day run on the 
railway line linking London and the Sussex coast 
and as demand has grown strongly on this route 
performance has declined. The number of 
passengers on the Thameslink route has grown 
by 32% over the past five years, and by 40% on 
Southern routes. So more, longer, trains have 
been added to the timetable but the 
infrastructure upgrades have proved to be 
insufficient to cope with the growth in passenger 
numbers. This has all led to congestion and a 
noticeable decrease in performance of the train 
service. When complete in 2018, the Thameslink 
Programme and GTR’s introduction of three 
new fleets of trains totalling 1,398 carriages will 
bring vitally needed extra capacity to the region 
but in the meantime it has added an additional 
strain with fewer routes into and out of London 
Bridge station.
“Despite around 60% of GTR trains being driver 
only operated services, the unions have entered 
into industrial action, disrupting services from 
spring 2016. This stance is regrettable and has 
significantly impacted on the service that the 
company is able to provide for passengers. Trains 
where drivers open and close doors are not 
new, and have been deemed safe by rail safety 
experts and the independent regulator which 
oversees safety on the railway. The new role 
of onboard supervisor will still have safety 
training but the main role of these 
employees is to help passengers and improve 
onboard customer service. There are no job 
losses or pay cuts, in fact we need more people 
for our onboard supervisor roles.
 New modern trains which allow the 
introduction of modern working practices are 
being introduced across the UK and Europe and 
will bring beneficial changes for customers.
What is the future of franchising?
“The case for railway franchising is a strong one 
with net payments to the government totalling 
over a £billion* and an NAO report (November 
2015) stating that competitively awarded 
franchises, if managed well, could increase 
returns to the taxpayer.**
“Privatisation has been a success and government 
investment has combined with commercial drive 
to create the safest and fastest growing railway 
in Europe. The number of passengers has 
doubled but this has created limitations on 
capacity that are being addressed now with 
billions being spent to upgrade the network, 
improve reliability and modernise retailing and 
information. It is estimated that around a third of 
the four percent annual increase in rail journeys 
since the mid 1990s has come from the changes 
to the industry model (according to Oxera  
2014 report).
“As well as the potential for competitively 
awarded franchises to increase returns to the 
taxpayer, the key findings of the NAO’s reform 
of the rail franchising programme review were 
that the DfT has improved the transparency, 
consistency and clarity of information provided 
to bidders and the public; and strengthened the 
assurance and governance of franchising. T o 
continue to improve the programme the DfT 
has started to apply lessons learned from 
completed competitions and feedback from 
bidders. There is now also greater emphasis on 
passengers’ experience, with bidders 
demonstrating how they will deliver punctual 
reliable services and limit crowding while 
improving levels of customer service on stations 
and onboard trains.”
*  £1.2bn total net payments to the DfT from train 
operating companies in 2014-15
**  £8.5bn total train operating company revenue in 
England and Wales, in 2013-14
What opportunities do 
you see overseas?
“Our established approach to development has 
been to seek opportunities that deliver value to 
our shareholders. We do not make strategic 
investments which increase market share 
without generating clear returns. We look for 
markets that fit with our strategy and risk 
appetite and to which we can bring knowledge, 
experience and expertise.
“We are looking forward to running services in 
Singapore shortly and, in line with our devolved 
approach, have created Go-Ahead Singapore - 
an autonomous local bus company employing 
around 900 people, ready to operate 25 routes 
in the Loyang region. We have also established a 
rail company in Germany that has won two 
concessions in the Stuttgart region and will begin 
running passenger services from 2019. Germany 
has the largest rail market in Europe operating 
over 50bn passengers kilometres and generates 
annual revenue of around €9.6 billion.”
What next after Target 100?
“Achievement of the £100m target this year is a 
testament to the hard work of our people 
across the Group. We will continue to challenge 
our operating companies to grow sustainably by 
focusing on customer service and becoming the 
first choice for journeys. We have established 
businesses, based primarily in the south east, 
where there is economic strength to support 
continuing returns. However, we see some of 
our growth in the future coming from places 
such as our overseas contracts in Singapore in 
the coming year and Germany in a couple of 
years’ time. We will also be submitting a strong 
bid for the West Midlands franchise when our 
current contracts end in October 2017 and for 
the South Eastern franchise when our current 
one expires in 2018.”
Are you committed to the 
voluntary Living Wage?
“We are pleased to have introduced the 
voluntary ‘Living Wage’ across the Group, 
ensuring all employees, regardless of age, earn at 
least £8.25 per hour, exceeding the 
government’s ‘National Living Wage’ 
requirements. However, voluntary Living Wage 
recommended-increases in future years could 
add to wage inflation, so we will always continue 
to review this.”
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 15
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Our business model
Our business model is robust and provides long term 
earnings resilience across the economic cycle. 
In addition to delivering sustainable returns for our 
shareholders we create value for our customers, 
our people and the communities we serve.
Regional 
bus 
London bus Rail
Our people Customers Finance Society
Our people Customers Communities
Our robust governance 
framework
Our approach to risk
Government Strategic 
partners & 
suppliers
Investors
Through our three 
operating divisions:
Enabled by: 
Our key relationships 
Our key inputs
Supported by:
Our strategic priorities
Creating value for:
To build a sustainable 
business for  
the long term
We generate 
revenue and profit 
in two main ways
1
2
3
5
6
4
16 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We generate revenue and profit in two main ways:
1) The provision of transport services to fare-paying passengers, whose 
revenue covers the cost of service and a profit margin. Most bus 
operations in the UK outside London operate on this commercial basis.
2) The provision of passenger transport services on behalf of public 
sector transport authorities. We tender for, and run, contracts in two main 
sub-categories:
• Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue comprises payments 
made by the transport authority to us with the authority retaining all 
fare revenue raised and therefore revenue risk. This includes the UK 
London bus market and the GTR rail franchise.
• Net cost contracts where our revenue is a combination of income from 
fares and payments from transport authorities. Most UK rail franchises 
are run on this basis.
Where revenue is partly or wholly derived from transport authorities the 
operator carries cost risk. Good cost controls are vital in areas such as 
staff utilisation, fuel efficiency and negotiating and managing contractual 
relationships. Part of the Group’s core skill set is managing all of these 
areas without compromising safety or quality.
1
Through our three operating divisions:
Regional 
bus 
London 
bus 
Rail
Read about our divisions on page 18 and 19
2
Supported by:
Our strategic priorities
Our robust governance framework Our approach to risk
Read about our strategic priorities 
on page 23 
Read our corporate governance report 
on page 62 
Read about our approach to risk 
on page 40 
4
Creating value for:
A broad range of stakeholders
At Go-Ahead, we believe it is important to deliver shared value. Our bus 
and rail operations create value for our people, the communities we 
serve, and our passengers. We deliver high levels of services to our 
transport authority customers and strive to be a reliable partner to 
our industry colleagues. Through our robust business model, we are 
committed to delivering sustainable shareholder value. We also create 
benefits for the UK economy through the employment of over 27,500 
people, the taxes we pay, payments to our suppliers and the contribution 
our rail franchises make to the government.
5
To build a sustainable business for the long term
We reinvest profits into our services to maintain our position as a leading provider of passenger transport. 
6
3
Enabled by:
Our key relationships
Passengers
We strive to deliver effective local services that put passengers at the 
heart of everything we do and where we stay one step ahead of changes 
in our customers’ worlds. 
Our people 
High levels of colleague engagement, job satisfaction and a safe, supportive 
working environment contribute directly to the success of Go-Ahead. 
Communities
Our businesses are part of the local communities in which they operate. 
Our aim is to provide the social and economic benefits of affordable, 
accessible travel in the towns and cities we serve.
Government
Policy and regulatory changes affect our bus and rail businesses. Working 
closely with both central and local government we bring the benefits of 
private sector delivery and lower public spending.
Strategic partners and suppliers
We work collaboratively with strategic partners including the DfT, TfL, 
local authorities, Network Rail and rail rolling stock companies. 
Professional relationships with core suppliers help to ensure and support 
efficient delivery of value for money services. 
Shareholders
As a publicly listed company we provide open and transparent 
information, which enables informed investment decisions to be made. 
Feedback from our shareholders forms part of strategic Board discussions.
Our key inputs
Our people
We directly employ almost all the people involved in providing our services.
Our buses and trains
All of our trains are leased and we own all of our regional bus fleet. In our 
London bus business, around half of our fleet is leased and half is owned.
Infrastructure
We pay for the use of public sector infrastructure such as railway track 
access or use of local authority bus stations. We own the majority of our 
bus depots. Rail depots are rented from Network Rail or similar providers.
Fuel
Our vehicles are mainly powered by a combination of diesel, electricity 
and gas.
Read about our fuel hedging policy on page 53
Finance
We are financed through a combination of investment from our 
shareholders, bank and other debt and also through profits generated by 
our operations. After payments to transport authorities and infrastructure 
providers, our largest costs are those of employing our people, funding 
our vehicle fleets and fuel.
See the breakdown of our bus and rail cost bases on pages 52 and 56 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 17
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 17 Our core business units
We create shared value for our stakeholders through our three 
core operating divisions: regional bus, London bus, and rail.
Regional bus
We operate commercial bus businesses, 
predominantly in the south of England
Outside London, we have operations in Brighton, Oxford, Plymouth, 
East Anglia, on the south coast and in north east England. We own 
100% of these businesses.
Key market features
• Outside London
• Services operated on a largely commercial basis
• Accountable to the traffic commissioner and other industry bodies 
• Work in partnership with local authorities to meet the needs of our 
communities
• Comprises local markets with unique features
• Mainly private operators, some local authority owned operations
• Operators largely make their own decisions, such as setting bus 
fares, routes and service frequencies
• Some tendered services are run on behalf of councils, such as 
school contracts
• Operators have a relatively flexible cost base which can be adapted 
to mitigate external factors
Growth opportunities
Go-Ahead operates around 7% of the regional bus market in the UK. 
It is a mature market with scope for growth through acquisition, 
network expansion and changing behaviours resulting in increased bus 
use. The Bus Services Bill, which is currently passing through Parliament, 
will give new enabling powers for franchising and the criteria which an 
authority needs to meet, though the Bill also enhances the partnership 
model with local authorities that Go-Ahead already supports.
Divisional revenue
70%: Fare paying passengers
By offering high quality services and value for money fares we are able 
to grow passenger numbers.
20%: Reimbursement for concessionary travel
Government policy entitles anyone of pensionable age to free travel 
on local bus services in England. Bus operators are reimbursed a 
percentage of the full fare for revenue forgone. This is paid by local 
authorities from a fund allocated by central government, based on a 
principle of the operator being ‘no better and no worse off’.  
Our typical reimbursement rates are around 50%.
10%: Tendered contracts
Services which are not commercially viable, such as rural routes and 
school buses, are tendered by local authorities. We also operate 
commercial contracts for universities and other third parties.
London bus
We operate tendered contracts for 
Transport for London (TfL)
In London, we operate around 190 routes from 17 depots in the 
capital. Around 85% of these depots are freehold. We own 100% of 
this business.
Key market features
• In London
• Services operated for TfL which sets routes and service frequency
• Fares set by the Mayor of London
• Private operators bid for individual route contracts
• Revenue paid to operators by TfL on a revenue per mile basis 
• Five to seven year contracts, dependent on performance
• Gross cost contracts require tight control of cost base
Growth opportunities
Go-Ahead is the largest bus operator in London with around 24% 
market share. Growth opportunities exist through additional contract 
wins, by moving into new areas through acquisition and if the scope of 
the network increases as London’s population grows.
Divisional revenue
95%: Running bus services in London for TfL
Operating under a regulated system, TfL issues tenders for bus routes 
in London and private operators enter a competitive bidding process 
for individual route contracts. Contracts are usually five years in 
duration with a possible two year performance-based extension.  
Our revenue comes directly from TfL and is paid on a revenue  
per mile basis.
5%: Other revenue including Quality Incentive Contract bonuses
Other sources of revenue include providing rail replacement services, 
advertising on buses and operating other third party contracts.
Performance targets are set by TfL through Quality Incentive Contracts 
(QIC) to encourage the provision of punctual services. Operators 
receive bonus payments when targets are met and are penalised for 
poor performance.
Singapore bus
Singapore bus operates under the Bus Contracting Model, similar  
to the London bus system. The Singapore Land Transport Authority 
tenders out routes and collects fares. Operators are paid a sum  
to run the routes, plus incentive bonuses for meeting or exceeding 
service standards.
More information on page 51 More information on page 51
18 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 New overseas business
We believe there is significant opportunity globally for the services we 
provide, and we actively monitor a range of markets for opportunities. 
In 2016 Go-Ahead won business in two overseas markets: Singapore 
and Germany.
From September 2016 Go-Ahead will operate 25 bus routes in the 
Loyang district of Singapore. The Loyang contract is awarded for five 
years with the option of a two-year extension based on good 
performance. Singapore’s bus contracts system is largely modelled 
on London’s.
Go-Ahead is also entering the German rail market, having been 
awarded two contracts of the Baden-Württemberg rail network. The 
contracts begin in June 2019 and run until 2032.
Rail
We operate rail franchises for the 
Department for Transport (DfT)
Go-Ahead currently operates three UK rail franchises (GTR, 
Southeastern and London Midland) through Govia, a 65% owned joint 
venture with Keolis.
Key market features
• Regulated by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) and other  
industry bodies
• Peak fares, routes and service frequencies set by the government
• Existing franchises typically had initial contract terms of around  
eight years
• The infrastructure is largely owned and managed by Network Rail
• Trains are leased from rolling stock operators
• Operators have a relatively fixed cost base, reducing flexibility to 
adapt to changes in the wider economy
Growth opportunities
Govia operates around 27% of the UK rail market. There are significant 
growth opportunities in this market in the coming years, with several 
franchises due to be awarded. New franchises typically have revenue 
opportunity/risk, clear contingent capital requirements but low overall 
capital intensity.
Divisional revenue
95%: Passenger revenue, franchise payments and subsidies
Operating under a regulated system, the DfT issues tenders for rail 
franchises and private operators enter a competitive bidding process 
for the right to operate them. Typically, operators submit detailed 
franchise bids that specify the level of premium the operator will pay 
to the DfT or the level of subsidy or franchise payment it will require 
from the DfT for operating the franchise, dependent on a range of 
assumptions, such as passenger revenue and cost base. The model is 
designed to maximise the value to the taxpayer by incentivising train 
companies to operate efficiently and encourage passenger growth.
5%: Other revenue
A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on 
the rail franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, 
advertising at stations and on trains and third party engineering work.
Total Group revenue £3,361.3m Total Group adjusted operating 
profit £157.4m
More information on page 55
Regional bus: £375 . 7 m 
London bus: £ 487 . 6 m
Rail: £ 2,498. 0 m 
Regional bus: £5 3.3 m
London bus: £ 4 7 . 1 m
Rail: £57 . 0 m 
Newcastle
Plymouth
Poole
Brighton
London
Norwich
Liverpool
Birmingham
Oxford
Colchester
King’s Lynn
Regional bus
London bus
Rail networks
United Kingdom
Our operations are primarily based 
in the south east of the UK
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 19
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 19 Our markets
We believe that public transport is best provided locally. 
Each local transport market is unique and each requires 
a tailored approach to help it deliver local objectives. 
Our strengths as an operator:
• Understanding and meeting the needs of the people in 
our local markets, delivering good quality services and 
value for money 
• Developing strong local brands 
• Delivering safe and efficient vehicle operations 
• High customer service standards, for both our 
passengers and our transport authority customers 
• Adopting a partnership approach in developing and 
operating services which create long term value for all 
parties involved 
• Operating on large and complex transport networks 
• Employing experienced management who are 
committed to supporting and developing our people 
Market review
We firmly believe in the fundamental strengths of UK public 
transport. All major political parties recognise and support the 
importance of public transport for the UK’s present and future 
needs. Public transport brings benefits to individuals, 
communities and the nation as a whole. Economically, it 
connects workers to jobs and enables trade. Socially, it provides 
access to employment, education, and health care, and unites 
friends and family. For many, especially older people, people 
with disabilities and children, public transport is often the only 
available way to make a journey. 
In the UK, the population continues to increase and car 
ownership is rising, creating greater traffic congestion. Public 
transport helps to reduce levels of traffic on the road, improve 
carbon emissions and reduce travel times. See page 29 for our 
case study on customer journey experience.
It is important for us to listen to our customers at a local level 
and understand how their travel behaviours are changing and 
what is important to them. Understanding our customers and 
communities enables us to innovate and evolve to continue 
meeting their changing demands.
While we make use of market and wider economic data to 
help us understand trends, we do not rely solely on this. We 
believe the best way to understand our customers’ behaviour 
is to ask our customers themselves for their views, as well as 
analysing travelling and purchasing behaviour through our 
various ticketing channels. Go-Ahead’s companies undertake 
passenger research to ensure customers’ needs are 
understood and are met. In general, levels of passenger 
satisfaction with bus services across the country are high and 
the commercial aspects of the market provide benefits to 
passengers through increased innovation, service quality, 
flexibility and efficiency. Commuter rail satisfaction in the south 
east has fallen recently as service has been impacted by 
congestion and the infrastructure upgrade programmes being 
implemented to reduce congestion. However, it is expected 
that satisfaction levels will increase dramatically when new 
trains and infrastructure upgrades are completed in 2018.
Our core markets 
Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, 
predominantly in London and the south east of England. 
Passenger demand for public transport services sees 
considerable variation across local markets reflecting 
differences in socio-demographic factors, the relative 
attractiveness of alternative modes of transport, as well as 
wider transport policy and government expenditure. Our 
operations are located in high density commuter markets, 
where there is strong demand for public transport.
The London bus and UK rail markets are regulated by 
Transport for London and the Office of Rail Regulation 
respectively. Both markets operate under an established and 
successful model. Local bus services outside of London have 
been de-regulated and privatised since 1986. 
Go-Ahead is the largest operator in London with a market 
share of over 24%. Operating under a regulated system, TfL 
issues tenders for each bus route and private operators enter 
a competitive bidding process for the right to operate them. 
Having a good network of bus depots is vital. Go-Ahead has 
recently expanded its strategically located London depots to 
17, with around 85% of our capacity owned as freehold. 
Euro 6: 16%
Euro 5: 46%
Euro 4: 8%
Other: 30%
Low emission buses
Euro 6,5 and 4 are considered to be the lowest emission 
vehicles in the market. The average age of our bus fleet is 
7.8 years. In the past year we have invested £71.8m in 
316 new buses.
20 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The economy and population growth
During the economic downturn in 2008/09 GDP fell by 
around 6% and did not return to its pre-downturn levels until 
2013. Unlike many sectors that experience volatility with 
economic changes, the bus and rail markets remained relatively 
stable through this period. Go-Ahead in particular, showed 
resilience at this time with consistent growth in passenger 
volumes between 2008 and 2013, demonstrating the strength 
of our business model and strategy. 
Demand for bus travel in the capital remains strong and, 
despite a recent dip in passenger journeys as a result of road 
improvements and congestion, the market is regarded as being 
relatively resilient. Population growth is a key driver for growth 
in public transport and the highest rates of population growth 
have been seen in London. Across the regional bus market it is 
important to note that there are considerable local and 
regional variations. Go-Ahead’s strategy is to focus our 
operations in dense urban markets which can support a 
comprehensive network of bus routes, offering good value 
and ease of use for both commuter and leisure travel. Bus 
can often be the cheapest way to travel, offering a low-cost 
alternative to other modes in a more uncertain 
economic environment.
Our rail strategy is to operate intensive urban commuter 
franchises centred around London. The rail industry is not a 
single homogeneous entity as each franchise has distinct 
characteristics. Significant variables include the type of franchise, 
the age and length of the franchise and the revenue bid 
assumptions and subsidy/premium profiles. Go-Ahead benefits 
from rail profits that are relatively less sensitive to passenger 
volume changes: the GTR franchise is a gross cost contract that 
is not exposed to revenue risk; while Southeastern and London 
Midland have been operating in profit share.
New technology and social change
New technology and social changes are shaping the economics 
of our industry. As a result the transport market is changing fast 
quickly and there are great opportunities ahead, as well as 
competitive pressures. This includes the likely shrinkage of the 
traditional retail car as the need to own a car diminishes, 
especially in cities and the suburbs, and the use of automated 
cars and car-sharing services increase.
At Go-Ahead we recognise the need to put accessibility and 
consumer choice at the heart of our business. We strive to 
take advantage of technological advances and improve the 
services we provide. For a number of years we have led the 
industry in our use of smart ticketing, with the largest transport 
smartcard scheme outside of London. Over the last few years 
we have developed mobile apps with features such as realtime 
information to give customers access to up-to-the minute 
information on their mobile devices. We strive to enable 
people to use their time travelling productively by creating 
comfortable environments and providing innovations such as 
on board Wifi and mobile phone charging points. Integrated 
transport solutions will be an ever more important part of the 
transport network. We are exploring new ways to build end to 
end journeys, and have introduced car share hire schemes in 
Brighton and the north east that can be accessed by 
Go-Ahead’s ‘the key’ smartcard.
New markets
Go-Ahead’s longstanding approach to development has 
been to seek opportunities that deliver value to our 
shareholders. We look for markets that fit with our 
strategy and risk appetite and to which we can bring 
knowledge, experience and expertise. In the first half of 
the year we were pleased to win business in two 
overseas markets, Germany and Singapore. 
In Singapore, Go-Ahead was awarded a five-year contract 
to operate bus services beginning September 2016. 
Singapore’s bus contracts system is modelled largely on 
London’s and, as London’s largest bus operator, 
Go-Ahead has the right experience and expertise to 
deliver high quality services in Singapore. 
We also look forward to entering the German rail 
market, having been awarded two contracts to operate 
rail services in Baden-Württemberg from June 2019 until 
2032. In Germany almost 90 million train-km per year is 
due to be tendered each year between 2016 and 2020, 
almost half of this in Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg.
These contract wins show that Go-Ahead is a growing 
and forward-looking organisation which is well positioned 
to capture new, value adding opportunities.
Characteristics of the markets we are exploring:
• Cultural similarities to UK
• Strong economic credentials
• High demand for public transport
• Stable political outlook
• Growing population
More information 
on page 29
Cash: 69%
Smartcards: 23%
M-tickets: 8%
 
Bus payment method (%)
While all London bus journeys are paid with smartcard or 
contactless our Regional bus journeys reman primarily paid 
for with cash.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 21
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 21 Our markets continued
Regional bus market share (%)
7%
London Bus market share (%)
24%
Rail market share (%)
27%
Political and regulatory developments
The Bus Services Bill, which was published during the course of 
the year and is currently passing through Parliament, introduces 
enabling powers for bus franchising and outlined the process 
by which powers granted to combined authorities can be 
exercised. The Bill also enhances the partnership model with 
local authorities that Go-Ahead already supports. Significant 
benefits have been achieved through the strong alliances 
Go-Ahead companies have forged with local authorities.
Go-Ahead has been working with the DfT on the important 
supporting guidelines that will underpin how the Bill gets 
implemented and will continue to help inform the debate. 
Measures brought forward in the Bus Services Bill must ensure 
that the franchise decision-making process is transparent and 
that any franchise proposals will deliver on customer service, 
value for money and affordability criteria.
Stagecoach: 24%
FirstGroup: 18%
Arriva: 15%
Go-Ahead: 7%
National Express: 6%
Others: 30%
Go-Ahead: 24%
Comfort DelGro: 19%
Arriva: 17%
Stagecoach: 15%
RATP: 12%
Abellio: 8%
Tower Transit: 4%
Others: 1%
Stagecoach: 28%
Govia: 27%
FirstGroup: 13%
Arriva: 12%
Abellio: 11%
Others: 9%
Market challenges 
 
 
Regional bus:
• Infrastructure improvements in some of our operating areas that will deliver long 
term benefits are resulting in significant roadworks and disruption in the 
shorter term
• The local economy in the north east has not recovered at the same rate as other 
areas in which we operate. With unemployment at higher levels than the UK 
average, passenger volumes have fallen in this area as a result of weaker 
economic conditions
• The current lack of detail around the government’s plans regarding the Bus 
Services Bill and possible links to devolution, creates uncertainty in this market, 
which in turn disincentivises investment by operators 
 
 
London bus:
• TfL has acknowledged that passenger volume targets have not been met due to 
rising levels of traffic congestion caused by increased roadworks and infrastructure 
improvement schemes. TfL expects reliability of the bus network to return to best 
previous levels by next year 
 
 
Rail:
• The large scale infrastructure project, the Thameslink Programme, continues to 
impact on our ability to operate some of our services to our target levels.  
We are reliant on other parties, such as Network Rail, delivering their 
contractual obligations
22 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
More information 
on page 5 Our strategy and key performance indicators
As a Group we have four strategic areas that we focus 
on: society; customers; our people; and finance. 
Society
To run our companies in a 
safe, socially and 
environmentally 
responsible manner.
We believe a sustainable public 
transport network is essential 
to the future of any society 
and as a leading provider of 
passenger transport services, 
sustainability is integral to the 
way we run our business. 
Ensuring the safety of our 
passengers and our people is 
an absolute priority for us. We 
are also committed to making 
a contribution to the 
communities in which we 
operate and wider society. 
Reducing the environmental 
impact of our operations while 
providing a greener alternative 
to the private car contributes 
to the government’s 
environmental targets. The 
economic contribution from 
Go-Ahead helps support 
economic recovery and longer 
term prosperity. 
Our vision
‘A world where every journey is taken care of’ describes our vision, 
and our aspirations, at the highest level.  We believe that how  
we behave will benefit all our stakeholders, and help us grow  
and build a business for the long term.
Our strategic priorities
Measuring our performance 
The key performance indicators (KPIs) presented in this report are the 
measures we use in the business to assess the Group’s performance against 
our strategic objectives. These measures are currently under review to 
ensure we are focusing on the right areas of performance.
The 2020 targets use 2014 performance as a baseline for measurement.
Directors’ remuneration policy
The directors’ remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Group’s 
performance, with elements of remuneration linked to our strategic 
priorities, particularly health and safety, customer satisfaction, and operating 
profit and cashflow. 
Our people
To be a leading employer  
in the transport sector.
Our people are our most 
valuable and important asset. 
Without them our buses and 
trains cannot create value. It is 
our teams across the Group 
that keep the business moving 
and are the face of Go-Ahead. 
Investing in and developing our 
people enables them to fulfil 
their potential and assists them 
in carrying out their jobs to 
the best of their ability, thereby 
improving the customer 
experience. Effective leadership 
development and succession 
planning are essential to 
sustainable success for the 
Group and a diverse 
workforce further 
enhances this.
Customers
To provide high quality,  
locally focused passenger 
transport services.
Meeting the needs of our 
customers is vital to the 
success of the Group. 
Providing reliable, value for 
money passenger transport 
encourages more passengers 
to use our services and leaves 
us well placed to tender for 
contracts with our transport 
authority customers. Our 
devolved structure ensures 
strong localised expertise, 
focuses on the needs of the 
local customer and gives us 
the ability to respond quickly 
to changing conditions in local 
markets. Good customer 
service is at the heart of 
everything we do and we are 
committed to delivering high 
levels of customer satisfaction 
across the board.
Finance
To run our business with 
strong financial discipline  
to deliver sustainable 
shareholder value.
Our aim is to deliver 
shareholder value through a 
combination of earnings 
growth, strong cash generation 
and balance sheet management, 
supplemented by value adding 
growth opportunities.  We 
have a steadfast commitment 
to operating with strong 
financial discipline and a 
conservative view to risk. The 
strength of our balance sheet 
allows us to pursue 
opportunities, adding value to 
the Group and making 
attractive returns to 
shareholders. 
Our strategy
Our Group strategy is to generate value for our investors,  
by building a sustainable business that meets the needs of  
our customers and communities. This strategy is underpinned  
by our strategic priorities.
More information on page 24 More information on page 28 More information on page 32 More information on page 36
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 23
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 23
Read more about our sustainability  
materiality review on page 25
Read our full directors’ remuneration  
report on page 84 Focused on  
sustainability
24 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Society Materiality matrix
Issues that are key to our 
business and important to 
stakeholders.
For Go-Ahead sustainability means operating our business in a way 
that ensures it is viable for the long term. Our shareholders expect us 
to make good decisions to contribute to the long term sustainability of 
the organisation.
T o continue to demonstrate to our 
stakeholders – both internal and external - that 
we are a responsible, forward-looking 
organisation, we have conducted a ‘materiality 
review’ to ensure we meet our stakeholders’ 
expectations now and in the future.
In collaboration with colleagues and key 
external stakeholders such as the DfT, TfL, the 
financial community and passenger groups, we 
have sought to find out the issues which are 
considered significant, relevant and material to 
both the business and stakeholders. This robust 
materiality assessment has been based on 
gathering a range of internal and external 
perspectives to determine Go-Ahead’s most 
critical issues. The exercise, which included a 
benchmark mapping against peers and 
competitors, has identified issues that impact on 
the business and are also important to 
stakeholders, and prioritises those that are 
rated highly against both criteria.
In the coming year we will be developing new 
non-financial key performance indicators for 
these issues and aligning them to our new vision 
and values. The new KPIs will be strategic, 
measurable and impactful – challenging us to 
improve our performance and demonstrate our 
commitment to stakeholders.
Of the 30 or more issues reviewed during the 
process these particular issues are ones 
identified as both key to the business and highly 
important to our stakeholders.
Sustainable reputation
Go-Ahead’s reputation is based on how we 
conduct ourselves, and how we are viewed to 
be responding to issues of concern to our 
stakeholders and issues in the public interest. 
Building the trust and understanding of 
stakeholders is very important. We engage 
actively with them to ensure they have an 
appreciation of the issues affecting our business 
and have the opportunity to discuss them 
openly with us.
Despite fewer passengers travelling by train than 
bus in the UK on a daily basis, rail services have 
a higher public profile in the media - and the 
scrutiny on London commuter services 
operated by the Group give significantly greater 
opportunities for reputational risk and 
contribute to a more challenging operating 
environment. In a highly regulated marketplace 
such as the rail franchises there are industry 
issues impacting on service delivery that are 
outside the direct control of our operating 
companies and this increases the risk to our 
reputation. In instances such as this we focus on 
working constructively with industry partners 
such as Network Rail to minimise the impact of 
any disruption on our passengers. It is here that 
focusing and prioritising strong engagement 
with our stakeholders is key to maintaining 
good relationships and enabling effective 
communication with colleagues, customers, 
local authorities, industry bodies and the media. 
T ogether with the DfT and Network Rail we 
have agreed joint narratives to explain the 
multi-faceted nature of the rail industry, 
positively promoting its often unreported 
successes and actively engaging with 
commentators and critics.
The industrial relations issues at rail operating 
company GTR over the summer of 2016 have 
diminished its reputation and put the Group in 
the public eye, increasing our reputational risk. 
Our focus will be to continue to modernise the 
franchise while embedding the right culture and 
values throughout the company and working to 
increase employee engagement, repair 
relationships to ensure all our people are 
customer focused and delivering a sustained 
good service for passengers.
• Corporate governance • Public policy
• Safety and security (passengers, 
employees and contractors)
• Impacts on local communities
• Regulatory compliance
• Customer satisfaction
• Accessibility / affordability
• Greener travel / carbon emissions
• T echnology and innovation
• Employee engagement
• Waste
• Water
• Supply chain
Impact on the business
High
High Importance to stakeholders
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 25
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 26 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy and key performance indicators continued
Society
To run our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally 
responsible manner.
SPADs per million miles
What does it mean? Across the rail industry train 
operating companies report signals passed at 
danger (SPAD). A SPAD could be a precursor to 
a catastrophic accident and every SPAD is treated 
as a serious incident. Many SPADs happen each 
year and most have little or no potential to cause 
harm and are the result of minor misjudgements 
of braking distance. All SPADs are given a risk 
ranking which considers the actual and possible 
consequences of each incident.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure 
against our commitment to provide a safe rail 
passenger service.
Risks Poor performance in this metric could 
impact on operational performance, resulting in a 
poor safety record and reputation.
2016 performance The number of SPADs per 
million miles has decreased by nearly 10.4% to 
0.69. Overall, we have achieved an improvement 
of 44.35% against our original 2007/08 baseline.
This result should be viewed in the context of 
many years of improvement in this metric across 
the industry. Performance is tracked against a very 
good baseline performance. We have tight 
controls around safety and high standards of 
driver training which minimise the likelihood of 
SPADs occurring. We also work closely with 
Network Rail to minimise the risk of SPADs and 
actively encourage accurate and timely reporting  
of incidents.
Due to the nature of these occurrences and high 
sensitivity to data changes, relative performance 
can fluctuate from one year to the next.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of SPADs per 
million miles, delivering continuous improvement.
RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees
What does it mean? RIDDOR (reporting of 
injuries, diseases and dangerous occurrences 
regulations) is a statutory requirement for all 
companies and relates to any work place incident 
that results in any absence from work for over 
seven days or any legally reportable incident to 
the Health and Safety Executive.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure 
against our commitment to provide a safe 
working environment for our employees.
Risks Failing to provide a safe working 
environment for our people goes against our 
objective to be the employer of choice in the 
sector. Poor performance could lead to issues 
around employee relations, including satisfaction 
and productivity, and could also increase 
employer’s liability insurance claim costs.
2016 performance The number of RIDDOR 
accidents per 100 employees reduced by 11.43% 
to 0.62. Overall, we have achieved an 
improvement of 68.69% against our original 
2007/08 baseline, exceeding our 2015 
target of 60%. 
We take our responsibility for the safety of our 
people very seriously and ensure our employees 
have the necessary equipment and training to do 
their jobs properly and safely. During the year, we 
continued to invest in staff training and upgrades 
to our facilities to ensure a safe working 
environment for our people. We investigate every 
accident and encourage accurate and timely 
reporting of incidents.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of RIDDOR 
accidents per 100 employees, delivering 
continuous improvement.
Bus accidents per million miles
What does it mean? We monitor the number of 
bus accidents which result in a notification to a 
claims handler for every million miles we operate, 
including cases where we are not at fault.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure 
against our commitment to provide a safe and 
positive travel experience for our bus passengers 
and minimise risk to the general public. Good 
performance in this area can also reduce cost 
through lower insurance claim costs.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in a 
safe manner would be impacted by poor 
performance against this KPI. Risks associated with 
this include reputational risk and higher insurance 
claim costs.
2016 performance The number of bus accidents 
per million miles decreased by 2.35% to 37.3. 
Overall, we have achieved an improvement of 
34.65% against our original 2007/08 baseline.
Bus accidents have reduced since 2011 as a result 
of action we have taken, despite an increase in 
accidents where we are not at fault. We invest 
heavily in training, monitor driving behaviour and 
encourage our drivers to improve their standards 
of driving through a range of initiatives across the 
division. We have improved end to end processes 
in place from accident prevention to claims 
management. We investigate every accident  
and encourage accurate and timely reporting  
of incidents.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of bus 
accidents per million miles, delivering 
continuous improvement.
SPADs per million miles Riddor accidents per 
100 employees
Bus accidents per million miles
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.69
0.58
0.72
0.80
0.77
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
0.62
1.01
0.72
0.76
0.70
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
10
20
30
40
37.3
31.5
27.0
37.8
38.2 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 27
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 27
Greenhouse gas emissions
We report on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the UK government’s Environmental 
Reporting Guidance methodologies together with the emissions conversion factors from DEFRA/
DECC GHG conversion factors for Company Reporting 2015. In line with this guidance, we have 
reported the emissions sources
*
 that are required. These sources fall within businesses included in 
our consolidated financial statements.
Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO
2
e). Our relative performance 
metric is kilogrammes of CO
2
e emissions per passenger journey.
Overall, CO
2
 emissions in absolute terms have increased as a result of business acquisitions but 
CO
2
 emissions per passenger journey have decreased largely due to improved efficiency in the 
use of traction electricity.
* Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis due 
to the difficulty in obtaining this data .These emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total GHG 
emissions and are therefore not considered material
2015/16 2014/15
CO 2e tonnes 
(‘000)
CO 2e tonnes 
(‘000) Scope 1
Passenger journeys (m) 1,297.23 1,241.20
Gas (buses) kwhs (m) 6.3
9.4
6.9
1.3
10 Gas (premises) kwhs (m) 51.0 54.5
Bus diesel (10% bio-diesel blend) ltrs (m) 130.3 340.2 127.6 329.8
Rail diesel ltrs (m) 18.6 55.1 18.4 53.5
Scope 2
Traction electricity kwhs
1
 (m) 1,368.9 564.1 1,169.3 540.4
Site electricity kwhs (m) 104.8 43.2 100.3 39.4
Electric buses kwhs (m) 0.07 0.03 n/a n/a
Scope 3
Electricity – transmission and distribution 
losses within the grid 54.9 44.6
Sub-total 1,066.93 1,019.0
Outside of scopes
Biogenic content of bio-diesel
2
7.9 11.0
T otal 1,074.83 1,030.00
1. Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016. This 
provides the most accurate figure for consumption.
2. The biogenic content of bio-diesel is considered outside scope as there is no conversion factor for our 
baseline year. Emissions from this source are reported for 2015/16 but are excluded from the calculation of 
our relative performance metric as comparative data is not available. We define our organisational reporting 
boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
2015/16 2014/15
Kgs CO
2
 per passenger journey 0.82 0.84
Kgs
 
CO
2
 per passenger journey only includes scopes 1-3 CO
2
.
Carbon emissions per 
passenger journey
What does it mean? We monitor all of the 
energy used within our operations and calculate 
our CO
2
 emissions resulting from this energy use 
by using the appropriate CO
2
 conversion factor. 
We divide our CO
2
 emissions by the number of 
passenger journeys made to establish CO
2
 per 
passenger journey and we use this metric to 
measure our performance.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure 
against our commitment to improve energy 
efficiency while contributing to government’s and 
local authorities’ carbon reduction targets and 
providing a greener way for our passengers to 
travel. Good performance in this area also 
reduces cost through fuel efficiency.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in an 
environmentally responsible manner would be 
impacted by poor performance against this KPI. 
Poor performance could result in reputational risk 
for the Group and higher costs.
2016 performance The year on year rate in this 
metric has improved by 2.34% and we continue 
to make progress towards our 10% reduction 
target by 2018.
2018 target T o reduce like for like carbon 
emissions per passenger journey by 10% on a 
2014/15 baseline. This is a challenging target as we 
have already made significant improvements in 
this area. Carbon emissions per passenger journey 
have reduced 16.11% on a like for like basis from 
our original 2007/08 baseline.
Carbon emissions per 
passenger journey (kg)
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 08
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.82
0.84
0.83
0.97
0.82
0.85
For more information, historical data can be found online at  
www.go-ahead.com/sustainability Focused on 
customer 
experience
28 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Customers of elderly people - have used the Dementia 
Friend training along with other accessibility 
training to positive effect. Practical ways to assist 
passengers with hidden disabilities, such as the 
introduction of ‘helping hand cards’ at many of 
our operating companies, enables us to provide 
a more personal service. The Samaritans work 
with our train companies to promote mental 
health and wellbeing and also, as part of their 
‘safeguarding’ programme, to assist identifying 
young people who may be vulnerable 
and at risk.
All our trains are wholly accessible for users of 
wheelchairs, but there is still some way to go 
before most stations have step-free access as 
many stations were built at a time when 
step-free accessibility was not a consideration. 
However, many of the barriers to increasing 
accessibility of our bus and train services are 
not physical ones, and can be overcome with 
increased employee awareness and training.
With the help of passengers and colleagues, we have created 
comprehensive maps of our customers’ bus and rail journeys from  
the very start to the very end of their journey.
Walking in our customers’ shoes, we have 
identified where we can improve the experience 
they have of our services. We have detailed 
action plans to deliver enhancements across:
• planning and researching journey options
• buying tickets
• boarding the bus or train
• getting help from our staff or through 
information channels
• completing the onward journey
• contacting customer services, clearing delay 
repay or locating lost property
Our new vision helps the Group to create an 
aspirational version of what the future will be 
like for customers; the ideal customer 
experience where every journey is taken care 
of. Our commercial bus companies work hard 
to attract and retain customers and we are 
proud that for another year we have achieved 
leading national ratings of 89% customer 
satisfaction in the national bus passenger survey. 
Features that many of our services outside 
London have, such as onboard Wifi, USB phone 
charging points, and new way-finding apps all 
assist to increase satisfaction. As expectations 
increase we need to be agile and find new ways 
to take care of every aspect of journeys and 
deliver even better experiences.
We also appreciate that every customer is 
unique, so has different needs and expectations, 
increasing personalisation is key to people 
feeling taken care of. Whether it is an ‘app’ 
remembering a passenger’s ‘home’ station, a 
customer service system automatically 
calculating a refund that is due, or a bus driver 
recognising the signs that a customer may have 
dementia and responding appropriately, it is 
increasingly important to offer a personal 
service that suits the needs of the individual.
We are investing in technology, and through our 
industry groups, working with information 
technology companies to build a substantial 
portfolio of innovative transport apps. Providing 
information at people’s fingertips helps people 
make decisions about their journeys from start 
to finish. We know every minute counts for 
many of our customers, and providing people 
with the best information is essential to 
building trust.
Improving accessibility
An important element of public transport is 
providing an inclusive service. Whether 
customers are using wheelchairs or mobility 
scooters, have difficulty walking, are pregnant or 
travelling with young children, or have learning 
difficulties or mental health issues – all our bus 
and rail companies strive to make their services 
as accessible as possible to everyone.
We invest approximately up to £70m per 
annum in new buses and this year all vehicles 
acquired have audible announcements and 
electronic visual signage (AV) onboard, also we 
have made a commitment that future purchases 
will be fitted with AV . Our bus companies have 
signed up to the RNIB charter, using the ‘Stop 
for Me, Speak to Me’ training material to help 
drivers appreciate some of the experiences and 
problems blind and partially sighted people face.
We continue to deepen our people’s 
understanding of the issues facing customer 
with dementia and - particularly in the coastal 
areas we serve which have higher percentages 
89%
Joint highest 
passenger satisfaction 
score of the large 
transport 
groups in the UK
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 29
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Our strategy and key performance indicators continued
Customers
To provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services.
Like for like passenger volume growth
What does it mean? We measure the number of 
passenger journeys taken on our regional bus and 
rail services compared with the previous year. This 
is measured on a like for like basis, adjusting for 
acquisitions, new franchises and the effect of 
the 53
rd
 week.
As we are contracted on the basis of mileage in 
our London bus division, we do not measure 
passenger numbers.
Why is it important? We track this metric closely 
as performance against our rail franchise bid 
assumptions and progress towards our bus 
operating profit targets are significantly impacted 
by passenger volumes.
Risks Decreasing volumes could be an indication 
of performance issues within our operations or 
changes in economic or market conditions, all of 
which could impact on the Group’s overall 
performance.
2016 performance In regional bus, like for like 
volumes remained steady with ongoing weakness 
in the north east economy and redevelopment 
roadworks around Oxford. This decline follows 
many years of consistent growth, against a 
backdrop of declining volumes in the wider UK 
bus industry, outside London. This growth has 
been supported by our geographical focus in 
more economically resilient areas and our 
approach to marketing our high quality services.
In rail, we continued to deliver consistent growth 
throughout the challenging economic period from 
2008 and this has continued in the year, with like 
for like growth of 3.1%.
We have made improvements over a period of 
time including sales channels, off-peak services 
and marketing.
2020 target T o maintain growth at broadly similar 
levels to those consistently delivered in 
recent years.
Customer satisfaction
What does it mean? Customer satisfaction is 
measured by the independent passenger 
watchdog Transport Focus. Surveys are 
conducted twice a year for our rail franchises and 
annually for our regional bus operations. Our 
primary customer in London bus is TfL. We 
measure satisfaction by performance against TfL 
performance targets, such as excess waiting time.
Why is it important? Providing high quality service 
is a strategic priority for the Group and 
monitoring customer satisfaction is a key measure 
of our performance. Identifying potential issues 
allows us to take action to improve our services.
Risks If customers are not satisfied with the 
service they receive, they may switch to other 
operators or other modes of transport. The 
satisfaction figures receive media attention and 
our reputation can be harmed if these are low. 
Our rail franchise contracts have satisfaction 
targets and our operating companies could face 
penalties if the targets are not achieved.
2016 performance In bus, we achieved the joint 
highest passenger satisfaction score of the large 
transport groups in the UK at 89%.
Rail scores declined a percentage point to 75.3% 
as a result of significant disruption for both 
Southeastern and GTR franchises, primarily due 
to the £6.5bn government funded Thameslink 
Programme upgrade and resulting lack of 
resilience in the network. London Midland, which 
is not impacted by significant infrastructure work, 
achieved 85.8%. The average score for train 
operators in London and the south east is 80%.
2020 target T o maintain our sector-leading bus 
passenger satisfaction scores and improve on 
levels of customer satisfaction in the rail division, 
bringing them in line with the industry average for 
the London and south east network.
Regional bus punctuality
What does it mean? The punctuality of our 
regional bus operations is measured as the 
percentage of buses which arrive at their stop 
between one minute before and five minutes 
after their scheduled time. Therefore, the higher 
the percentage the better.
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to our passengers and is key to helping 
us grow passenger numbers.
Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer 
satisfaction. If our customers are not satisfied with 
the service they receive they may switch to other 
operators or other modes of transport. There is a 
direct correlation between journey times 
lengthening and fewer passengers travelling.
*
2016 performance 86.2% of our regional bus 
services ran on time. This is in line with last year’s 
performance, lower than previous years due to 
congestion and roadworks in some of our 
operating areas preventing punctual 
service running.
2020 target Achieve regional bus punctuality of 
over 95% in line with industry targets.
* The Impact of Congestion on Bus Passengers report 
(Greener Journeys, 2016)
Like for like passenger 
volume growth (%)
Customer satisfaction (%) Regional bus punctuality (%)
1 6 15 14 13 12
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
2.1
2.8
2.0
1.1
1.9
3.9
(1.4)
3.1
0.0
4.8
Regional bus Rail
1 6 15 14 13 12
20
40
60
80
100
90
83
78
90
92
76
90
75
89
77
Regional bus Rail
16 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
20
40
60
80
100
86.2
90.0 
91.2
90.0 
86.9 
30 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 30 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 London bus punctuality
What does it mean? The punctuality of London 
bus operations is measured by excess waiting 
time. This is the time passengers have to wait for 
a bus above the average scheduled waiting time. 
The lower the excess waiting time, the better 
the performance.
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to the passengers we carry on behalf 
of TfL. We earn extra revenue through Quality 
Incentive Contract (QIC) bonus payments if we 
exceed TfL punctuality targets, on a contract 
route basis. Contract extensions are based on 
performance.
Risks Poor performance could result in lower 
QIC bonus payments and contracts not 
being extended.
2016 performance Average excess waiting time 
held at a similar level to last year at 1.22 minutes 
in excess of the average scheduled wait time. The 
industry average excess wait is 1.15 minutes.
Performance has been impacted by roadworks 
and congestion associated with public realm 
improvements, including the cycle super highway, 
affecting our ability to run services in line 
with targets.
2020 target Achieve low average excess waiting 
time of below one minute, in line with 
TfL’s targets.
Rail punctuality
What does it mean? The punctuality of our rail 
operations is measured on the basis of the DfT’s 
Public Performance Measure (PPM) on a moving 
annual average basis. PPM is the percentage of 
trains that arrive at their final destination within 
five minutes of their scheduled arrival time.
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to our passengers. It is the strongest 
indicator of passenger satisfaction with the service 
and is fundamental to building trust and advocacy 
among customers. PPM performance forms part 
of our franchise agreements with the DfT.
Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer 
satisfaction. Poor performance could result in 
customers stopping using our services and harm 
to our reputation. Breach of franchise agreement 
terms could lead to financial penalties or 
ultimately result in the loss of a franchise.
2016 performance Overall PPM for our rail 
companies was 82.8%. This is a significant decline 
of 4.6ppt against the prior year. This metric has 
been impacted for the last few years by weak 
network resilience in the Southeastern and GTR 
networks which saw a decline of 3.6ppt and 
9.7ppt respectively. Conversely, London Midland’s 
PPM saw an increase of 1ppt taking it to 88.5% 
and average for the year. We continue to work 
closely with Network Rail to improve 
performance on the networks on which we 
operate, but infrastructure will remain restricted 
during the Thameslink upgrade programme and it 
will not be until the end of 2018 that the full 
benefits of the investment will be realised.
2020 target Increase levels of punctuality in all our 
franchises to meet 90% PPM in accordance with 
the ORR’s Network Rail and London and south 
east operators’ 2019 target. The industry is 
currently reviewing how it measures performance 
from 2018 to 2022.
Key drivers of satisfaction
Research strongly demonstrates that what 
bus and rail passengers want first and 
foremost is a punctual, reliable service that 
offers value for money. A reliable network is 
fundamental to both bus and train services 
running on time.
Over the past year roadworks in places 
such as London and Oxford have caused 
congestion leading to an increase in journey 
times and decrease in bus reliability which 
has impacted on the number of passengers 
travelling. A 2016 study* into congestion 
describes the impact of slower speeds 
leading to higher costs, higher fares, 
increased journey times, punctuality and 
reliability decline and service decline; all 
leading to fewer passengers. Go-Ahead’s 
bus companies work in partnership with 
local authorities in their regions to ensure 
that both operators and local authority 
planners can mitigate as much as possible 
against the deterioration experienced 
through necessary roadworks.
It has been accepted that after years of 
underinvestment and increasing passenger 
numbers the London and south east 
network is not providing the reliable 
network trains companies need to operate 
a punctual service and this is having an 
effect on overall customer satisfaction. The 
spring 2016 rail passenger survey included 
pilot survey where an ‘emotional tracker’ 
was used to monitor commuter 
experiences through a period of disruption 
linked to London Bridge rebuild and the 
Thameslink Programme. The two factors 
strongly affected passengers’ sentiment were 
being on time and the ability to get a seat.  
The Thameslink Programme will create 
additional capacity and stabilise the network 
supporting a more reliable train service 
which will improve customer satisfaction. 
*  The impact of Congestions on Bus Passengers 
(Greener Journeys, 2016)
London bus punctuality (minutes) Rail punctuality (%)
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5
1.22
0.95
0.88
1.05
1.21
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
20
40
60
80
100
82.8
90.3
88.1
86.9 86.7
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 31
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 31 Focused on our vision
32 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 32 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Our people Our new behaviours and attitudes have been created in collaboration with 
colleagues and stakeholders. They capture in words the spirit of what we 
stand for, guiding our decision making and our actions and are how we 
are going to achieve our vision.
A world where every journey is taken care of 
– is our new Group vision. It is future focused, 
aspirational and puts customers at the heart of 
our business. It sets out where we want to be.
Creating our vision has been a collaboration 
between colleagues across the organisation and 
external stakeholders including customers. We 
know it is important that this is not just an 
exercise to refresh the words we use but that 
they make a tangible difference to how our 
people feel about working at Group, how 
customers experience the service we offer and 
a point of differentiation from our peers.
The vision is a continual reminder that we are 
an organisation that provides a valuable public 
transport service for people rather than just 
being operational logistics experts. The act of 
taking care of people’s journeys resonates with 
our employees and is a common purpose for 
everyone in the Group.
Embedding the new vision, behaviours and 
attitudes across the organisation is underway 
– our policies, procedures, KPIs and contracts 
are all being re-drafted to align the organisation 
with our vision so that we are agile and 
responsive to meeting our customer needs. We 
have launched a programme entitled ‘going 
forward together’ to deliver the key changes we 
need to put in place in all our operating 
companies to continue to grow, deliver better 
value for money and provide a good service for 
customers. Facilitated workshop sessions have 
been held at all operating companies to ensure 
consistency of approach and language 
throughout the business. Action plans and 
commitments are part of our ‘better together’ 
sessions with leaders and managers accountable 
for overseeing delivery.
The new vision, beliefs and attitudes help us 
meet our shared goals and objectives in a way 
that we have mutually agreed is how we wish to 
behave and be seen to behave. With these 
strong values in place, the organisation will 
support the right behaviours and challenge 
those that go against them. Like other successful 
organisations we will use our values and 
behaviours to govern decision making. Our 
leaders and senior managers play a crucial role 
in assisting others to do this.
Delivering improved efficiencies and greater 
agility will help us to be one step ahead of the 
competition and continue to invest in the future. 
We know that by working together we will be 
able to create a truly customer-focused 
collaborative workplace and through that 
deliver growth. Passengers will benefit from 
better services; customers and our supply chain 
will benefit from increased responsiveness and 
improved value for money; our people will 
benefit through greater opportunities across 
the Group; and our shareholders will benefit in 
our success.
Next generation
Succession planning is an important part of 
running a responsible sustainable business and 
our people plans include several schemes to 
ensure colleagues have opportunities for full and 
successful careers within the Group. We have a 
strong talent programme where individuals with 
potential are encouraged to work on projects 
and take secondments in other areas of the 
Group to deepen their understanding of 
the industry.
Go-Ahead bus division’s two year graduate 
scheme, launched in 2013, has now successfully 
seen 21 graduates go through the programme 
and six take management roles. The scheme 
built on the Group’s well established 
engineering scheme and broadened the scope 
to include high calibre individuals enthusiastic 
about transport, who were commercially aware 
with strong leadership potential. Participants 
focus on the operational aspects of company 
management and have the opportunity to work 
across all areas of the business including driving, 
contract and project management, marketing 
and stakeholder relations. A coaching approach 
underpins the scheme and MDs and operations 
directors act as mentors for the graduates.
For the past few years our rail division has 
taken part in the industry’s ‘track and train’ 
scheme providing all-round experience for 
graduates to find graduate roles and in the past 
year we have introduced our own Govia 
graduate scheme with five graduates in 2015/16. 
As part of our effort to increase gender 
diversity across our business, two women are 
part of the cohort.
Our new vision, beliefs and attitudes are:
A world where every 
journey is taken care of
We believe in
Trusting people
Being can-do people
Building relationships
Being one step ahead
We are
Accountable
Down-to-earth
Collaborative
Agile
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 33
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Employee engagement
What does it mean? Since 2012 we have 
measured how engaged our people are through 
annual independent employee surveys, conducted 
across our businesses.
Why is it important? Go-Ahead strives to be a 
good, respected employer and we appreciate the 
experience and opinions of our people and 
insight gained from their feedback. Whenever 
possible we make changes as a result of feedback 
received to build trust and foster an environment 
where employee voice is valued.
In addition to making Go-Ahead an attractive 
place to work, high levels of employee 
engagement will contribute to the success of 
the Group.
Risks Low levels of employee engagement could 
result in reduced productivity and higher levels of 
absence or staff turnover, all of which would 
impact on resource planning across the business.
2016 performance In the year our overall 
engagement score for the Group was 53%. Our 
bus division recorded levels of employee 
engagement of 47%, and our rail division averaged 
scores of 59%. 
As the largest employer in the Group, Go-Ahead 
London’s relatively low score of 46% brought 
down the bus division average significantly. GTR’s 
score of 40% has also negatively impacted the rail 
division results significantly. Improving engagement 
at both these operating companies will be a 
particular focus for the management teams.
2020 target All our bus and rail companies set 
their own challenging targets to increase levels of 
employee engagement. Overall, our aim is to 
improve our levels of engagement each year, 
remaining above the average for large businesses.
Absenteeism
What does it mean? We measure employee 
absence by the percentage of scheduled hours 
not worked due to unplanned absence 
from work.
Why is it important? High levels of absenteeism 
could be reflective of low levels of staff 
satisfaction and engagement. By monitoring levels 
of absence we are able to identify areas of the 
business with potential employee relations or staff 
shortage issues. Monitoring also helps us with our 
resource planning and allocation.
Risks Staff shortages could impact on our ability 
to deliver our services at the frequency, level of 
punctuality and standard we aim to achieve. It 
potentially puts additional pressure on colleagues 
in the workplace and impacts on employee 
morale, engagement and stress levels. There is a 
significant cost to the business of absenteeism; the 
national estimated average cost of an absent 
employee is £554 per year (CIPD 2015 survey)
2016 performance In the year, the overall rate of 
Group absence was 3.9% of working hours lost 
to sickness, with 3.5% in our bus division and 
4.3% in rail. This is higher than the national sector 
average (3.5% CIPD 2015 survey).
Our local management teams are focused on 
establishing workplaces with a positive working 
atmosphere and consider wellbeing when making 
operational business decisions. Line manager 
training is aimed at assisting our people’s capability 
to manage absence through identifying and 
managing stress in their teams and adhering to 
attendance procedures.
2020 target Achieve low levels of absenteeism, 
below the national average.
Employee turnover
What does it mean? Employee turnover is 
measured by the percentage of employees who 
leave the business in year.
Why is it important? High levels of employee 
turnover could be reflective of low levels of staff 
satisfaction and engagement. By monitoring levels 
of turnover we are able to identify areas of the 
business with potential employee relations issues. 
This also helps to identify issues such as staff 
shortage and assists us in resource planning 
and allocation.
Risks Employee shortages could impact our ability 
to deliver our services at the frequency, level of 
punctuality and standard we aim to achieve. 
Some roles, such as train drivers, take more than 
a year to train and we have a disproportionate 
number of employees in those roles likely to be 
nearing the end of their career.
2016 performance The overall rate of employee 
turnover was 11.4% for the Group, with 14.8% in 
our bus division and 7.9% in rail.
Levels of turnover are regularly monitored by 
local management teams who we believe are 
best placed to respond to changing levels and 
address local issues as they arise is important to 
consider the economic climate in relation to this 
KPI as the wider job market can impact turnover 
levels. Our rail division is recruiting and training an 
unprecedented number of new drivers to 
operate increased numbers of train services, and 
to fill vacancies left by retiring colleagues.
2020 target Maintain consistently low levels of 
employee turnover.
Our strategy and key performance indicators continued
Our people
To be a leading employer in the transport sector.
Employee engagement index (%) Absenteeism (% of working hours) Employee turnover (%)
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
62
45
40
63
46
59
47
60
Bu s Rail
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
1
2
3
4
3.6
3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
4
8
12
11.4
10.4
9.4 9.4
10.5
Due to the timing of surveys 2015’s rail figures show data from 2014/15 for Southeastern and 2012/13 for Southern and London Midland.
34 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 34 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Focus on our people
Our aim is to be the employer of choice in the sector. The safety and wellbeing of our people 
is our priority and we place great emphasis on strong health and safety standards being 
maintained across the Group. We have refreshed our organisation’s vision and values to 
better encourage an environment where our people develop and have the opportunity for 
fulfilling careers with us.
We seek to provide opportunities for personal 
and professional development and to recognise 
and reward excellence. We are committed to 
protecting the rights of our people and believe 
in equal opportunities at all levels of the 
business. We use a range of means to ensure 
that the voice of employees is heard across the 
Group including: employee surveys, informal 
feedback sessions and discussions, internal social 
media, phone-ins, newsletters and more.
During the year, we continued the development 
of our people and succession plans across the 
organisation from the boardroom to customer-
facing colleagues. Our central HR function runs 
‘talent’, ‘rising star’ and mentoring programmes 
for individuals identified as having potential for 
promotion. It also develops training courses and 
provides access to a suite of learning and 
development resources for managers and 
teams across all our operating companies.
We believe it is important employees can 
benefit from the Group’s success alongside 
shareholders. In the past year we have 
introduced a Sharesave scheme, the second 
scheme in the past four years, aimed at 
encouraging our people to increase their vested 
interest in the Group’s success.
Diversity and equal opportunities
Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity in 
all areas and at all levels of the business. Over 
the past two years we have established a 
Group diversity forum, comprising individuals 
from across the Group, with a particular focus 
on increasing gender diversity. Traditionally our 
industry has a large percentage of men working 
in roles such as bus and train drivers and 
engineering operational roles. We work to 
ensure that there is no bias towards either 
gender and that all appointments and internal 
promotions are made on the basis of merit.
The Group believes in equal opportunities 
regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, 
sexual orientation, race and, where practicable, 
disability. We give full and fair consideration to 
job applications from people with disabilities, 
considering their particular aptitudes and 
abilities. In respect of existing employees who 
may become disabled, the Group’s policy is to 
provide continuing employment and 
appropriate training, career development and 
promotion of disabled people employed by us.
In the past year we have embarked on a 
training programme, that will ultimately include 
all operating companies, helping managers of 
people to be aware of issues such as 
unconscious bias to ensure all people are 
treated fairly and equitably.
Human rights
We are committed to protecting the rights of 
our people, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders. This commitment is reflected in 
our Group policies and procedures. The 
Modern Slavery Act came into effect in 2015 
and Go-Ahead has made steps to promote and 
improve our commitment to eliminating abuse 
and exploitation in the workplace. We have 
identified at risk functions within our business 
and supply chain and have required our 
suppliers to abide by our anti-slavery and 
trafficking policy – or their own equivalent.
Employee relations
It has been established that retaining engaged 
and motivated employees is important to the 
success of the business. We seek to engage 
effectively with teams and individuals at a local 
level, while maintaining a Group approach with 
consistent values and behaviours. We appreciate 
the experience and opinions of our people and 
conduct annual employee engagement surveys 
across the Group. The majority of our 
workforce is represented by trade unions and 
we strive to foster good relationships with 
union representatives, acknowledging the 
impact that poor employee relations has on our 
success. It is clear that the response of unions to 
modernisation changes being introduced at rail 
company GTR has created a difficult climate for 
some particular roles and improving relations in 
this matter is one of the main focuses of the 
management team.
Our local approach
Go-Ahead has always operated through a 
devolved management structure, with local 
teams entrusted and empowered to run their 
businesses effectively. We believe our operating 
company management teams are best placed 
to respond to the needs of local customers and 
communities. This approach allows flexibility and 
fast action which we believe gives us 
competitive advantage in the markets we serve. 
This local focus is complemented by skills, 
expertise and support at Group level in areas 
such as marketing, IT shared services and 
procurement and we have regular ‘better 
together’ forums to share experience and 
expertise around the Group.
Board gender diversity Overall Group gender diversity Senior management gender diversity
Male: 23,617 86%
Female: 3,908 14%
Male: 5 83%
Female: 1 17%
Male: 53 83%
Female: 11 17%
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 35
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 35 Focused on 
accountability
36 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Finance Go-Ahead is committed to accountability in its finances, 
maintaining a strong and effective financial control environment.
We have a disciplined financial framework 
operating Group wide. A key part of our 
business model is to focus on customer service 
to improve customer retention and satisfaction 
and to invest in capability, processes and 
performance measures to reduce costs by 
making our operations reliable effective 
and efficient.
We continue to be one of the few FTSE 250 
companies with the Fair Tax Mark – something 
that we were the first in the FTSE 350 to be 
accredited with at the scheme’s launch in 2014. 
The Board continues to work towards being 
assessed as ‘low risk’ by HMRC and ensure that 
we adhere to our policy of not undertaking tax 
planning or making use of tax havens.
Our devolved approach enables us to build 
management accountability at operating 
company level. It means that decisions can be 
taken locally about where to re-invest to deliver 
the maximum benefit for customers. A 
significant portion of our profits are reinvested 
in the business to increase opportunities for 
growth as well as drive further efficiency. 
Organisational efficiency programmes include 
upgrading IT systems and moving all Group 
companies to one enterprise platform. Our 
central procurement department achieves cost 
savings through negotiations on behalf of our 
operating companies and our central marketing 
function adds value by negotiating advertising 
space nationally rather than at individual 
company level.
Our central procurement division has 
successfully delivered savings in the region of 
£4m across a range of contracts. For example 
the team has negotiated a telecommunications 
data contract leveraging the scale of our UK 
wide operations and the growing desirability of 
having Wifi service onboard our buses and 
trains and at stations.
Our suppliers play a strong role in helping us 
deliver our strategy and we aim to get the most 
from them. We aim to choose companies who 
act ethically and responsibly and by working in 
partnership with our suppliers we have 
continued to reduce our carbon, water and 
waste emissions. We have also signed up to the 
prompt payment code and follow the principles 
of the government’s better payment 
practice code.
Over the last few years we have invested in 
establishing a central services IT helpdesk team 
offering our operating companies 24 hour 
technical support. This shared service centre 
allows employees to log all faults ranging from a 
problem with equipment such as station ticket 
vending machines through to getting assistance 
over the phone or via online chat with a 
computer software problem or query.
First in FTSE 350  
to achieve Fair Tax Mark
In the top 10 ‘UK’s most trustworthy 
companies 2016’ - Forbes List.
Companies that, “Consistently demonstrated 
transparent accounting practices and solid 
corporate governance”
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 37
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Our strategy and key performance indicators continued
Finance
To run our business with strong financial discipline  
to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Like for like revenue growth
What does it mean? For our rail operations, we 
measure revenue generated through the 
provision of passenger transport services. In our 
bus division, non-passenger revenue is less 
material, so we measure total revenue instead.
Why is it important? Growing revenue through a 
combination of growth in passenger numbers and 
modest fare increases drives operating 
profit growth. 
Risks Inadequate levels of revenue growth can 
impact on profitability, reducing our ability to 
invest in the business and make returns to 
shareholders.
2016 performance In regional bus, like for like 
revenue growth was 2.4%, down on 2015 
performance (2.6%). London bus like for like 
revenue increased by 2.6% despite a significant 
reduction in Quality Incentive Contract bonus 
revenue resulting from roadworks and congestion 
in the capital. Like for like growth in rail revenue 
of 4.6% is the result of growth in passenger 
numbers and regulated rail fares set by the 
government. Regulated rail fare increases are 
passed back to the government through the 
premium or subsidy payment of each franchise.
2020 target T o maintain growth at broadly similar 
levels to those consistently delivered over 
recent years.
Adjusted operating profit
What does it mean? Adjusted operating profit 
excludes the incremental impact of IAS 19 
(revised) and also amortisation, goodwill 
impairment and exceptional operating costs 
to provide more comparable year on year 
information.
Why is it important? Adjusted operating profit 
helps us measure the underlying performance of 
our operating companies. Profit growth enables 
us to reinvest in the business and deliver 
shareholder value.
Risks Inadequate levels of profitability can reduce 
our ability to invest in the business and make 
returns to shareholders.
2016 performance T otal adjusted Group 
operating profit was £157.4m, up 16.9%. Adjusted 
bus operating profit of £100.4m was up 8.0% in 
the year and in line with our expectations, 
enabling us to achieve our target of £100m of 
bus operating profit this financial year. Our rail 
division performance was ahead of our initial 
expectations with adjusted operating profit for 
the year of £57.0m, up 36.7%, helped by 
improved insurance claims costs and lower 
fuel costs.
Bus target: T o maintain industry leading margins.
Rail target: Deliver value from existing franchises 
and achieve margins nearer the industry 
average of 3%.
Adjusted NET DEBT/EBITDA
What does it mean? This ratio is used to indicate 
the Group’s ability to pay down its debt from 
earnings. Adjusted net debt, which is total net 
debt plus restricted cash in our rail division, is 
measured against earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA).
Why is it important? We have a bank covenant 
limit of 3.5x and are required to remain below 
this level. This ratio also helps us measure against 
our commitment to preserve a strong capital 
structure and maintain our investment grade 
credit ratings.
Risks Exceeding the bank covenant limit of 
3.5x cover.
2016 performance In line with management’s 
expectations, adjusted net debt to EBITDA was 
1.36x, slightly below our target range. Adjusted 
net debt reduced by £5.4m to £239.3m in the 
year, while EBITDA was down by £9.6m 
to £175.6m.
2020 target T o maintain adjusted net debt/
EBITDA within our target range of 1.5x and 2.5x 
throughout the economic cycle.
Adjusted operating profit (£m) Adjusted net debt/EBITDA (X) Like for like revenue growth (%)
1 6 15 14 13 12
Regional bus London bus Rail
4.7
4.3
4.3
7.5
6.1
2.6
7.3
1.8
5.0
6.9
5.8
9.6
2.4
4.6
4.4
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
50
100
150
200
157.4
110.2
102.5
118.8
134.7
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
1.36*
1.80
1.87
1.45
1.32
*  Not adjusted for the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised),  
in line with the 2021 revolving credit facility.
38 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 38 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Cashflow/Adjusted EBITDA
What does it mean? This ratio is used to monitor 
the conversion of operating profit into 
operating cash.
Why is it important? Good performance against 
this KPI demonstrates strong working capital 
management and financial discipline. Strong cash 
generation provides liquidity.
Risks Not generating sufficient earnings to 
reinvest in the business.
2016 performance Cashflow generated from 
operations* was 1.00 times EBITDA**. Negative 
working capital after adjusting for restricted cash 
in 2014/15 was predominately in the rail business 
and reflects changes in the London Midland and 
Southern franchise agreement. The nature of our 
rail business can lead to large working capital 
movements at certain times of year, which can 
result in some fluctuations from year to year due 
to timing of payments and receipts. Our London 
bus contracts run for five years with a possible 
two year extension. Capital expenditure 
requirements in this division are impacted by the 
timing of contract renewals.
2020 target T o match or exceed cashflow 
generated from operations to EBITDA. 
* excluding restricted cash movement
** adjusted for the incremental impact of 
IAS 19 (revised).
Dividend cover
What does it mean? We measure the level by 
which our dividend payments can be covered by 
earnings (adjusted earnings per share divided by 
dividend per share).
Why is it important? We are committed to 
delivering shareholder value through our dividend 
policy. We measure our dividend cover to help us 
assess how much of our profits we can pay to 
shareholders as a dividend whilst allowing 
sufficient retained earnings to invest in the 
business. 
Risks Insufficient or unsustainable dividend cover 
could result in the dividend being reduced.
2016 performance Dividend cover was in line 
with our policy at 2.30 times earnings on a 
pre-IAS 19 basis. Further to a 6.5% increase in the 
interim dividend, the Board has proposed a final 
dividend of 67.52 per share, increasing the full 
year dividend to 95.85p, up 6.5%, from 90.0p.
2020 target Maintain adequate dividend cover 
throughout the economic cycle, in line with our 
policy of 2x cover, excluding the incremental 
impact of 1AS 19 (revised).
Cashflow/EBITDA (X) Dividend cover (X)
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0 1.00
0.93
0.76
0.98
0.71
1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
2.30
1.97
1.72
2.04 2.02
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 39
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 39 Managing risk
Adrian Ewer,
Chairman of the audit committee
Through the effective management of risk and by embracing 
opportunities we will be in a strong position to deliver our 
strategic goals and enhance shareholder value.
Risk appetite
The Board is responsible for determining the overall risk 
management framework for the group and for reviewing and 
establishing the appropriate level of risk to be taken in pursuit 
of strategic goals.
Setting the risk appetite for the Group is an integral part of 
the development of corporate strategy and the Board debates 
the risks around each strategic area during the planning 
process. Where current risk levels are outside approved 
tolerance levels, management is required to develop 
appropriate mitigations.
Risk environment
The Group’s business involves the operation and maintenance 
of buses and trains. The Board is conscious of risks to the 
public, our customers and our people. In addition to 
developing systems and procedures to ensure compliance with 
legal, regulatory and other requirements, the Board strives to 
create an open culture where we learn from our experiences 
as part of a continuous drive to improve.
When operations start in Singapore in September 2016 and 
Germany in 2019, care will be taken to implement the same 
high standards.
Risk culture
We endeavour to foster an environment where people feel 
comfortable raising issues and management teams treat all 
concerns seriously. This approach is designed to highlight 
potential problems and issues at an early stage so that prompt 
action can be taken to minimise any impact on the business.
The newly launched culture change programme to embed our 
vision, beliefs and attitudes will support the wider adoption of 
the culture the Board wants to achieve. Strong internal 
communications material, and regular ‘better together’ forums 
and cross functional and operating company meetings assist in 
sharing experiences and good practice between teams.
Identifying, assessing and managing risks
The principal risks that face the Group are identified by the 
Board and through the year there is a process to review the 
most significant risks and ideally the emergence of new and 
potential risks. There are also regular audit committee meetings 
to monitor how the Group is managing its risks.
Identifying and prioritising our risks
The way in which we identify and prioritise risk shapes our 
approach to delivering our strategic objectives.
Managing our risks 
and embracing our 
opportunities effectively
40 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ongoing process for risk identification, 
evaluation and management
Viability statement
The directors have assessed the Group’s 
viability over a three-year period to June 
2019.  This is consistent with the period 
covered by the Group’s corporate plan 
which is the basis for the three years of the 
strategic plan.  This gives the Board greater 
confidence in the forecasting assumptions 
used.  In making its assessment, the Board 
took account of the Group’s current financial 
position, its operational performance and 
both its contracted and anticipated capital 
expenditure. It also assessed the potential 
financial and operational impacts, in severe 
but plausible scenarios, of the principal risks 
and uncertainties set out on pages 42 to 45, 
the likely mitigating actions and the 
effectiveness of those mitigating actions.
Based on this assessment, the directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet 
all of its liabilities as they fall due during the 
viability review period. In making this 
statement, the directors have made the 
following key assumptions:
• Funding for the Group is available in the 
form of capital markets debt, bank debt or 
alternatives and sufficient funding will be 
available in all plausible market conditions
• The UK proposals in respect of The Bus 
Services Bill will have limited impact on 
the Group’s regional bus business in the 
period under review
• The Group will continue to work 
effectively with the DfT in resolving issues 
arising from the operation and 
implementation of change in the 
GTR franchise
Executive directors
Monitor performance and 
changes in key risks
Provide regular reports and 
updates to the Board
Local operating 
companies
• Identify, manage and 
report local risks
• Maintain local risk 
management plans
• Implement 
mitigating actions 
Group risk management 
process
Provides guidance and advice 
to operating companies to 
assist with:
• Identifying risks, assess 
extent of risks’ impact  
and implement 
mitigating actions
• Health and safety
• Insurance
Reports to the Board and 
the audit committee on the 
status of key risks
Audit committee
Monitors risk management 
and assurance arrangements
Effectiveness of risk 
control processes
Review of the effectiveness 
of key risk management and 
control processes through
• Internal audit
• External audit
• Insurance
• Risk surveys
Supporting risk management - lines of defence 
1. 
Local operating  
companies
2. 
Group  
support
3. 
Independent  
assurance
The Board
• Sets strategic priorities 
• Agrees the Group’s appetite for risk and assesses risks and tolerance levels and makes sure 
they are appropriately managed 
• Sets delegated levels of authority
• Approves Group policy and procedures as needed
Risk review
Managing risk is an integral part of what our 
management think about every day, with robust 
risk management processes having supported 
the day to day business operations and decision 
making for some time. As Go-Ahead continues 
to grow and develop, it is a key responsibility of 
the Board to ensure that it maintains effective 
internal control systems and adequately 
manages the risks facing the Group.
During the year, an independent review of the 
Group’s existing risk management processes 
was undertaken by PwC, which is also the 
Group’s internal auditor. The objective of this 
review was to assess whether the existing risk 
management framework was fit for purpose, 
supported the delivery of business objectives 
and was embedded appropriately 
throughout the Group.
The review found that there was an inherent 
and embedded understanding of the key risks 
facing the Group on a day to day basis. Our 
approach to risk management was centred on 
the hands-on nature of the Group Chief 
Executive and senior management and a close 
working relationship with the operating 
companies where risk was identified, discussed 
and action taken as appropriate.
The review did identify that risk management 
could be enhanced in certain areas, particularly 
around assessing the controls in place to 
manage the risks, improving the focus of the 
discussions at the biannual operating companies 
board meetings at which the risk registers are 
formally discussed and the subsequent flow of 
information to the audit committee.
By introducing these enhancements, the process 
of risk and internal control assessment and the 
related discussions have improved considerably 
while keeping risk management practical and 
proportionate to the needs of the business.  
These enhancements also support compliance 
with the new provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 and the spirit of the 
Code’s guidance.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 41
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 41 Prioritising our principal risks
Managing risk continued
A robust assessment has been undertaken by 
the Board to assess the principal risks facing 
the Group and consideration has been given 
to those that threaten our business model, 
could impact on our future performance, 
solvency or liquidity as well as our strategic 
objectives. The principal risks are those which 
could potentially have an impact on the 
Group’s strategic objectives within the next six 
to twelve months.
The executive directors, supported by other 
senior management, are responsible for 
creating mitigation plans to manage these risks. 
Appropriate mitigations are developed for 
each risk and communicated to those 
accountable for implementation. Most of the 
mitigating actions are the responsibility of 
Go-Ahead’s operating companies.
Another important element of identifying and 
prioritising risks is managed at operating 
company level, where management teams are 
responsible for identifying, assessing and 
managing their local risks.
Risk heat map
These heat maps show the position of our 
principal risks in relation to others, the impact and 
likelihood both before and after mitigating actions 
have taken place, as well as the level of 
management focus associated with each risk.
Likelihood
Likelihood
Impact
Impact
6
6
4
9
3
9
4
3
7
2
8
1
5
2
1
8
5 7
Pre-mitigation
Post-mitigation
External risks
1. Economic environment 
Lower economic growth or reduction in 
economic activity.
2. Political and regulatory framework 
Changes to the legal and regulatory 
framework, particularly the Bus Services Bill.
Strategic risks
3. Sustainability of rail profits or loss 
of franchise 
Failure to retain key franchises on acceptable 
terms or failure to stabilise GTR’s business 
performance.
4. Inappropriate strategy or investment 
Failure to make appropriate strategic or 
investment decisions.
5. Competition 
Competition from existing and new market 
participants, loss of business to other modes 
and threats from market disruptions.
Operational risks
6. Catastrophic incident or severe 
infrastructure failure 
An incident, such as a major accident, an act 
of terrorism, a pandemic, or a severe failure 
of rail infrastructure.
7. Large scale infrastructure projects 
Disruption caused by large scale projects on 
and around the networks on which we 
operate, such as the Thameslink programme, 
HS2, and major roadworks.
8. Labour costs, employee relations and 
resource planning 
Failure to secure the effective engagement 
of our people and trade unions in making 
change and managing costs.
9. Information technology failure or 
interruption, or security breach 
Prolonged or major failure of the Group’s IT 
systems or a significant security breach 
which could pose significant risk to the 
ability to operate and trade.
External risks
Operational risks
Strategic risks
Risk type
42 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 External risks Strategic risks
1 2 3
Economic environment
Lower economic growth or reduction in 
economic activity.
Potential impact
Reduced revenue as:
• Customers make fewer journeys
• Customers buy lower priced tickets
Mitigating actions
• Continue to focus our operations in more 
resilient geographical areas
• Local management constantly assesses the 
needs of local markets and tailors services and 
products accordingly
• Focus on driving volumes through innovative 
and targeted marketing
• Generate customer loyalty through initiatives 
such as smart-ticketing
• Proactive cost control
Opportunity
• Maximise geographic and product 
diversification opportunities
• Two rail contracts will be re-bid over the next 
two years allowing for a rebasing of 
target revenue
Change in risk in the year
• Economic growth rates for UK have been 
downgraded following the EU referendum vote
• There are variances between geographical 
areas in the rate of recovery
Political and regulatory framework
Changes to the legal and regulatory framework, 
particularly the Bus Services Bill.
Potential impact
• If bus services are franchised, the Group could 
lose revenue in some areas but has 
opportunity in others
• Change to the rail franchising model
• Reduced funding for public transport
Mitigating actions
• Limited exposure to local authority funding. 
Our operations are largely commercial
• Actively participate in key industry, trade and 
government steering and policy 
development groups
• Collaboration and partnership working with 
local authorities
• Prepare for bus franchising
• Demonstrate the value delivered by the 
private sector through investment in services, 
responding quickly and flexibly to 
passenger needs
Opportunity
• The political and regulatory framework 
provides us with the opportunity to influence 
decisions through close dialogue with the 
government, local authorities and 
other key parties
• The Bus Services Bill could provide business 
opportunities in new markets
Change in risk in the year
• Following the EU referendum and changes in 
government, uncertainty around the outlook 
for government policy has increased
• The Bus Services Bill relating to bus franchising 
outside of London. The Bill is currently making 
its way through Parliament
Sustainability of rail profits 
or loss of franchise
Failure to retain two key franchises on 
acceptable terms and failure to stabilise GTR’s 
business performance.
Potential impact
• Rail revenues and profits could fall over the 
next three years
Mitigating actions
• Flexible and experienced management team 
which responds quickly and expertly to 
changing circumstances
• Shared risk through Govia, which is 65% 
owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis
• Invest in performance improvements
• Work constructively with industry partners, 
such as Network Rail, to deliver long term 
economic and infrastructure benefits
• Significant resource and financial investment in 
bidding for new franchises
• Regular Board review of rail performance, and 
Board approval of overall rail bidding strategy
• Compliance with franchise conditions 
closely monitored
• Recovery plan for GTR
Opportunity
• Opportunity to build on rail contract wins in 
Germany and potentially other 
European countries
Change in risk in the year
• The GTR franchise has seen a difficult year as a 
result of the impact of major infrastructure 
projects and industrial action
• We are heavily reliant on third parties, which 
have their own targets, budgets and 
deadlines to meet
• We began operating the London Midland 
franchise under new contract terms in April 
2016 which will run until October 2017
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 43
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 43 Managing risk continued
Strategic risks continued
Operational risks
4 5 6
Inappropriate strategy or investment
Failure to make appropriate strategic or 
investment decisions.
Potential impact
• Shareholder value could be lost and the Group 
could suffer reputational damage
Mitigating actions
• Comprehensive strategic discussions with main 
Board and advisors
• Extensive valuation and due diligence, 
supported by external expertise
• Maintain strong financial discipline when 
assessing viability of opportunities
• Cautious approach to investment 
opportunities overseas and outside our 
core operating areas
• The Board has a clear stated risk appetite that 
governs the acceptable level of risk in pursuit 
of objectives
Opportunity
• Continual focus on and review of strategy 
ensures the Board is well placed to assess 
value adding opportunities as they arise
Change in risk in the year
• Good strategic progress has been made during 
the year. Continued focus on delivering profit 
growth in bus
• Go-Ahead has a clear strategy, communicated 
to all levels of the organisation
Competition
Competition from existing and new market 
participants, loss of business to other modes and 
threats from market disruptors.
Potential impact
• Loss of revenue and profits as well as 
reputational damage if other offerings appear 
more customer focused
Mitigating actions
• Disciplined and focused bidding in London
• Adapt to changing customer requirements and 
technological advancements
• Foster close relationships with stakeholders to 
ensure we are meeting requirements, including 
service quality and price
• Work in partnership with local authorities and 
other operators
• Promote multi-modal travel, improving 
the overall door-to-door experience 
for passengers
• Remain at the forefront of promoting and 
introducing inter-operable ticketing schemes
• Focus on customer needs and expectations, 
including more channels for ticket purchase 
and journey planning
Opportunity
• Strategic partnerships provide opportunities 
and aim to improve the passenger experience 
and perception of public transport as a whole
• Increased competition in the market 
encourages innovation which improves the 
customer experience
Change in risk in the year
• The reduction in oil price, leading to lower fuel 
prices for motorists could result in passengers 
taking more trips in private cars rather than 
choosing public transport
• T echnology based start-ups are entering 
transport markets
Catastrophic incident or severe 
infrastructure failure
An incident, such as a major accident, an act of 
terrorism, a pandemic, or a severe failure of rail 
infrastructure.
Potential impact
• Serious injury to the public, our passengers or 
our people. Service disruption with financial 
losses and reputational damage
Mitigating actions
• Rigorous, high profile health and safety 
programme throughout the Group
• Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested 
contingency and disaster recovery plans
• Thorough and regular staff training
• Work closely with our industry partners, such 
as Network Rail, which maintains the rail 
infrastructure
Opportunity
• The threat of such an event requires our staff 
to be well trained and prepared at all times
• Continuous review of processes and 
procedures can identify areas for operational 
improvement and improve overall safety on 
our networks
Change in risk in the year
• We have maintained high levels of safety 
performance, demonstrating our continuing 
efforts to minimise this risk
44 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 8 9
NEW
Large scale infrastructure projects
Large scale projects on and around the networks 
on which we operate, such as the Thameslink 
Programme, HS2 and major roadworks.
Potential impact
• Reduced capacity decreases resilience and 
creates congestion causing lower reliability 
which impacts service levels and 
contractual performance
• Inadequate planning or execution can cause 
severe disruption
Mitigating actions
• Work constructively with industry partners, 
such as Network Rail, to minimise the impact 
of any disruption on our passengers
• Strong engagement with stakeholders, 
including our customers, to enable effective 
communication
• Good relationships with local authorities and 
industry bodies, such as the DfT
• Communicate effectively with customers 
during structural change programmes and 
during disruption
Opportunity
• Investment in railway infrastructure and roads 
will deliver long term benefits to passengers 
travelling on our services
Change in risk in the year
• Our rail operations have been impacted by 
works associated with the £6.5bn Thameslink 
Programme, particularly around London Bridge
• Congestion due to roadworks in London has 
reduced our income from Quality 
Incentive Contracts
Labour costs, employee relations 
and resource planning
We fail to get the effective engagement of our 
people and trade unions in making change and 
managing costs.
Potential impact
• Strikes leading to reputational damage
• Low levels of morale and engagement lead to 
inadequate customer service
• Service disruption and costs arising from 
industrial action
• Inability to deploy new technology and work 
practices for the benefit of customers
• Wage costs increase or are higher 
than necessary
Mitigating actions
• Work to maintain good relationships with 
employees and trade unions
• Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and 
retention policies, training schemes, resource 
planning and working practices
• Experienced approach to wage negotiations
• Employee engagement surveys across all 
businesses to identify issues
• Engaging all our people in the new vision, 
beliefs and attitudes
Opportunity
• Through fostering positive employee relations 
and offering good employment packages we 
have a motivated and committed workforce, 
with low staff turnover across all businesses
• We are monitoring the impact of changes in 
the employment market which may affect our 
ability to retain and recruit staff
Change in risk in the year
• Operational challenges on the GTR franchise 
have been compounded by industrial action 
and a spike in sickness absence
Information technology failure or 
interruption or security breach
Prolonged or major failure of the Group’s IT 
systems or a significant security breach.
Potential impact
• Disruption to trading and/or operational 
service delivery
• Reputation damage and regulatory breach 
from misuse of data
• Financial loss
Mitigating actions
• Process standardisation and continued 
investment in best practice systems, including 
‘light sites’ and ‘load bearing’ servers
• Clear and tested business continuity plans
• Proactive approach to cyber security issues
Opportunity
• Ensuring our systems and processes are 
efficient and reliable strengthens day-to-day 
operations across the Group
Change in risk in the year
• Continued investment in and maintenance of 
IT systems across the Group
• Cyber security certification achieved
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 45
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 45 Where adjusted figures are referred in this report, the statutory figures have 
been adjusted to remove the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised). A full 
disclosure of the adjustments applied is set out in the finance review. Unless 
otherwise stated, reference made to operating profit throughout this report 
excludes amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs.
The financial year ended 2 July 2016 was a 53 week year compared with the 
year ended 27 June 2015 which was 52 weeks.
Overview and highlights
Revenue for the year was £3,361.3m, up £146.1m, or 4.5%, on last year 
(2015: £3,215.2m), with growth in both bus and rail divisions. The majority of 
this increase was attributable to rail performance, predominantly due to a 
full year of operation of the GTR franchise following its introduction on 14 
September 2014.
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders excluding amortisation, goodwill 
impairment and exceptional operating costs and the incremental impact of 
IAS 19 (revised) for the year increased by £16.7m, or 21.4%, to £94.7m 
(2015: £78.0m) and adjusted earnings per share rose 21.3% to 220.5p 
(2015: 181.8p).
Net cash at the year end of £323.0m (2015: £292.9m) reflects £30.1m of 
additional cash, the majority of which is restricted. The higher cash balance is 
largely due to working capital movements relating to timing of franchise 
payments. The adjusted net debt (net debt plus restricted cash) to EBITDA 
ratio of 1.36x (2015: 1.32x) is below our target range of 1.5x to 2.5x.
Finance review
Patrick Butcher, 
Group Chief Financial Officer
The Group once again delivered a robust financial performance in the 
year ended 2 July 2016 and is in a strong financial position.
Adjusted Group income statement
2016  
£m
IAS 19 (revised) 
adjustment
2016 Adjusted 
£m
2015  
£m
IAS 19 (revised) 
adjustment
2015 Adjusted 
£m
Regional bus operating profit 49.7 3.6 53.3 46.7 2.0 48.7
London bus operating profit 43.6 3.5 47.1 42.3 2.0 44.3
T otal bus operating profit 93.3 7.1 100.4 89.0 4.0 93.0
Rail operating profit 27.1 29.9 57.0 25.7 16.0 41.7
Operating profit* 120.4 37.0 157.4 114.7 20.0 134.7
Amortisation and goodwill impairment (3.0) (0.4) (3.4) (9.1) (1.9) (11.0)
Exceptional operating costs - - - (8.8) - (8.8)
Operating profit 117.4 36.6 154.0 96.8 18.1 114.9
Net finance costs (17.6) 2.1 (15.5) (18.1) 2.3 (15.8)
Profit before tax 99.8 38.7 138.5 78.7 20.4 99.1
T otal tax expense (18.5) (7.7) (26.2) (19.4) (4.2) (23.6)
Profit for the period 81.3 31.0 112.3 59.3 16.2 75.5
Non-controlling interests (11.6) (8.3) (19.9) (7.1) (3.9) (11.0)
Profit attributable to shareholders 69.7 22.7 92.4 52.2 12.3 64.5
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders* 94.7 78.0
Weighted average number of shares (m) 43.0 42.9
Adjusted earnings per share (p)** 220.5 181.8
Proposed dividend per share (p) 95.85 90.0
* Before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs
** See the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the full calculation of adjusted earnings per share
46 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The 2016 and 2015 statutory results are principally adjusted for the 
incremental impact of applying IAS 19 (revised) in 2011 and also intangible 
asset amortisation. IAS 19 (revised) was introduced in 2011 and was first 
effective for the June 2014 year end. It amended the methodology for 
recognition of the interest and service costs associated with the present 
value of assets and liabilities for pension schemes. This includes rail pension 
schemes where liabilities represent future commitments which are well 
beyond the period covered by the Group’s rail franchises. The standard 
requires that the cost of providing pension benefits in the future is 
discounted to a present value using corporate bond yield rates. As 
corporate bond yields vary over time, this creates inherent volatility in the 
Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet. These two factors 
make the Group’s current non-cash IAS 19 (revised) charge 
disproportionately higher and more volatile than the cash contributions the 
Group is required to make in order to fund the future liabilities for which it 
is responsible. The Group accordingly believes a more relevant and 
consistent measure of the cost of providing post-employment benefits is the 
underlying contribution excluding the volatile element of IAS 19 (revised). 
Accordingly the charge applied in the adjusted results reflects that which 
would have arisen under IAS 19 (revised) prior to the changes made to the 
standard in 2011. Intangible asset amortisation represents the non-cash cost 
of amortising intangible items including acquired contracts and software 
costs. The charge associated with these previously acquired assets can be 
significantly different year on year reflecting the amortisation profile and the 
timing of when the acquired contracts/software developments arose and is 
therefore removed. In previous periods we have also removed exceptional 
items such as one-off restructuring costs and intangible asset impairments 
when they arise. The Board believes that these adjusted key performance 
indicators give a clearer and more consistent measure of the Group’s 
underlying performance.
The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of 
privatisation and the relationships between them are governed by a number 
of contracts between the major participants; the DfT, Network Rail and train 
operating companies. In arriving at the operating profit numbers for the rail 
division, management have made judgements on the outcome of contractual 
discussions with Network Rail and the DfT. These principally relate to the 
allocation of financial responsibility for train cancellations and delays.
Five year Group operating profit including and excluding the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Group operating profit* 120.4 114.7 103.2 86.7 95.6
Incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) 37.0 20.0 15.6 15.8 14.6
Adjusted Group operating profit* 157.4 134.7 118.8 102.5 110.2
* Before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs
Five year adjusted earnings per share (EPS) including and excluding the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised)
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Statutory basic earnings per share 162.3p 121.6p 164.0p 125.3p 129.5p
Adjusted EPS including IAS 19 (revised) 167.2p 150.8p 148.6p 117.6p 123.8p
Incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) 53.3p 31.0p 24.0p 22.0p 18.1p
Adjusted EPS excluding incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) 220.5p 181.8p 172.6p 139.6p 141.9p
Revenue and adjusted operating profit by division
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
%
Revenue
Regional bus 375.7 359.9 15.8 4.4
London bus 487.6 457.9 29.7 6.5
T otal bus 863.3 817.8 45.5 5.6
Rail 2,498.0 2,397.4 100.6 4.2
T otal 3,361.3 3,215.2 146.1 4.5
Adjusted operating profit
Regional bus 53.3 48.7 4.6 9.4
London bus 47.1 44.3 2.8 6.3
T otal bus 100.4 93.0 7.4 8.0
Rail 57.0 41.7 15.3 36.7
T otal 157.4 134.7 22.7 16.9
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 47
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 47
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings (net profit after tax attributable to members before 
amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the 
incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised)) were £94.7m (2015: £78.0m), 
resulting in an increase in adjusted earnings per share from 181.8p to 220.5p.
The weighted average number of shares was 43.0 million 
(2015: 42.9 million), and the number of shares in issue, net of treasury 
shares, was 43.0 million (2015: 43.0 million).
Dividend
The Board is proposing a total dividend for the year of 95.85p per share 
(2015: 90.0p), a rise of 6.5%, following a 6.5% increase in the interim 
dividend. This includes a proposed final payment of 67.52p per share 
(2015: 63.4p) payable on 25 November 2016 to shareholders registered at 
the close of business on 11 November 2016.
Dividends of £39.4m (2015: £36.7m) paid in the period represent the 
payment of the prior year’s final dividend of 63.4p per share (2015: 59.0p) 
and the interim dividend in respect of this year of 28.33p per share 
(2015: 26.6p). Dividends paid to non-controlling interests were £17.8m 
(2015: £12.8m). Excluding the non-cash incremental impact of IAS 19 
(revised), dividend cover was 2.30x (2015: 2.02x).
Summary cashflow
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
£m
Adjusted EBITDA* 212.6 205.2 7.4
Working capital/other items 
(excluding restricted cash 
movements) (0.2) (59.3) 59.1
Cashflow generated from 
operations 212.4 145.9 66.5
T ax paid (24.8) (20.3) (4.5)
Net interest paid (13.0) (14.3) 1.3
Net capital investment (106.4) (47.9) (58.5)
Free cashflow 68.2 63.4 4.8
Net acquisitions (0.5) (0.4) (0.1)
Joint venture repayment - 1.8 (1.8)
Other (5.1) - (5.1)
Dividends paid (57.2) (49.5) (7.7)
Decrease in adjusted net 
debt** 5.4 15.3 (9.9)
Opening adjusted net 
debt** (244.7) (260.0) n/a
Closing net debt (239.3) (244.7) n/a
* Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill 
impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental impact of IAS 
19 (revised)
** Adjusted net debt is net cash less restricted cash
Cashflow
Cash generated from operations before tax and excluding movements in 
restricted cash was £212.4m (2015: £145.9m). This increase of £66.5m is 
largely due to movements in working capital, primarily reflecting structural 
changes in rail franchises. T ax paid of £24.8m (2015: £20.3m) comprised 
payments on account in respect of the current and prior years’ liabilities. Net 
interest paid of £13.0m (2015: £14.3m) is lower than the charge for the 
period of £17.6m (2015: £18.1m) after excluding the impact of non-cash 
interest on pensions and the unwinding of discounting on provisions. Capital 
expenditure, net of sale proceeds, was £58.5m higher in the year at £106.4m 
(2015: £47.9m) predominantly due to increased investment in both the 
regional bus and London fleet. Investment in the bus division is expected to 
be around £110m in 2016/17 due to the timing of London bus contract 
renewals and continued investment in our regional bus operations.
During the financial period, as part of a 12 month planned programme of 
monthly share purchases, the Group repurchased 172,964 ordinary shares 
for a total consideration of £4.4m (2015: no shares repurchased).
Significant medium term finance is secured through our revolving credit 
facility (RCF) and £200m sterling bond. The £280m five year RCF had an 
initial maturity of July 2019 with two one year extension options, the second 
of which was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the facility 
to July 2021. The sterling bond is due to expire in September 2017. On 26 
August 2016 the Group agreed a bridging facility of £200m to give timing 
options around the repayment of the sterling bond. The facility is expected 
to remain undrawn as it is most likely that the bond will be replaced with a 
similar long term instrument. The bridging facility is available during 
September 2017 to facilitate repayment of the bond and, if drawn, contains 
four extension options of six months each.
Capital expenditure
Expenditure on capital during the year can be summarised as:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Regional bus 57.4 28.0
London bus 38.7 8.1
T otal bus 96.1 36.1
Rail 17.8 6.2
Group total 113.9 42.3
Net cash/debt
Net cash of £323.0m (2015: £292.9m) comprised the £200m  
sterling bond, amounts drawn down against the £280m five year RCF 
of £113.0m (2015: £111.0m), and hire purchase and lease agreements 
of £0.3m (2015: £0.3m), offset by cash and short term deposits of £636.3m 
(2015: £604.2m) including £562.3m of restricted cash in rail (2015: £537.6m). 
There were no overdrafts in use at the year end (2015: £nil).
Our primary financial covenant under the 2016 RCF was an adjusted net 
debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x. Adjusted net debt (net debt 
plus restricted cash) to EBITDA of 1.36x (2015: 1.32x) remains under our 
target range of 1.5x to 2.5x.
Finance review continued
48 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Capital structure
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Five year syndicated facility 2019/2021 280.0 280.0
7.5 year £200m 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0
T otal core facilities 480.0 480.0
Amount drawn down at 2 July 2016 313.0 311.0
Balance available 167.0 169.0
Restricted cash 562.3 537.6
Net cash (323.0) (292.9)
Adjusted net debt 239.3 244.7
EBITDA
*
175.6 185.2
Adjusted EBITDA
**
212.6 205.2
Adjusted net debt/EBITDA
*
1.36x 1.32x
Adjusted net debt/EBITDA
**
1.13x 1.19x
* Not adjusted for the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised), in line with new 
2021 RCF
** Adjusted for the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised)
Our investment grade ratings from Moody’s (Baa3, stable outlook) and 
Standard & Poor’s (BBB-, stable outlook) remain unchanged.
Net finance costs
On a statutory basis, net finance costs for the year were slightly behind the 
prior year at £17.6m (2015: £18.1m) including finance costs of £20.8m 
(2015: £20.5m) less finance revenue of £3.2m (2015: £2.4m). The average 
net interest rate for the period was 4.2% (2015: 4.2%).
Amortisation and goodwill impairment
On a statutory basis, the amortisation and goodwill impairment charge for 
the year was £3.0m (2015: £9.1m), which relates to the non-cash cost of 
amortising software costs, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. The 
prior year charge of £9.1m included a goodwill impairment charge of £4.9m.
Exceptional operating costs
T otal exceptional operating costs in the year were £nil (2015: £8.8m).
Prior year exceptional operating costs related to rail restructuring of the 
GTR franchise bringing Thameslink and Greater Northern together with 
Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure.
Taxation
On a statutory basis, net tax for the year was £18.5m (2015: £19.4m), 
equivalent to an effective rate of 18.5% (2015: 24.7%), below the UK 
statutory rate for the period of 20% (2015: 20.75%). Excluding the impact of 
the deferred tax rate reduction of £3.7m, the tax rate would have been 
22.2%, as a result of non-deductible items such as German and Singaporean 
bid costs. In the year ended 27 June 2015, the underlying rate, excluding 
goodwill impairment of £4.9m, was 23.2%. The statutory rate will reduce to 
19% and 17% in 2017 and 2020 respectively. We expect our effective tax 
rate to be 2% to 3% above the statutory rate in future years.
Non-controlling interest
On a statutory basis, the non-controlling interest in the income statement 
of £11.6m (2015: £7.1m) arises from our 65% holding in Govia Limited 
which owns 100% of our current rail operations and therefore represents 
35% of the profit after taxation of these operations.
Pensions
Statutory operating profit includes the net cost of the Group’s defined 
benefit pension plans for the year of £90.8m (2015: £68.9m) consisting of 
bus costs of £1.4m (2015: £2.7m) and rail costs of £89.4m (2015: £66.2m). 
Group contributions to the schemes totalled £48.3m (2015: £46.2m).
Bus pensions
Under accounting valuations, the net deficit after taxation on the bus defined 
benefit schemes was £2.2m (2015: £47.6m), consisting of pre-tax liabilities 
of £2.7m (2015: £59.5m) less a deferred tax asset of £0.5m (2015: £11.9m). 
The pre-tax deficit consisted of estimated liabilities of £765.8m 
(2015: £718.7m) less assets of £763.1m (2015: £659.2m). The percentage of 
assets held in higher risk, return seeking assets was 48% (2015: 51%).
Rail pensions
As the long term responsibility for the rail pension schemes rests with the 
DfT the Group only recognises the share of surplus or deficit expected to 
be realised over the life of each franchise. At the year end we recorded a 
pre-tax liability of £nil (2015: £nil).
Patrick Butcher,
Group Chief Financial Officer
8 September 2016
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 49
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 49
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report 50 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business review
Bus
Bus overview
2016 2015
T otal bus operations
Revenue (£m) 863.3 817.8
Adjusted operating profit* (£m) 100.4 93.0
Adjusted operating profit margin 11.6% 11.4%
Regional bus
Revenue (£m) 375.7 359.9
Adjusted operating profit* (£m) 53.3 48.7
Adjusted operating profit margin 14.2% 13.5%
London bus
Revenue (£m) 487.6 457.9
Adjusted operating profit* (£m) 47.1 44.3
Adjusted operating profit margin 9.7% 9.7%
Like for like revenue growth
Regional bus 2.4% 2.6%
London bus 4.4% 1.8%
Like for like volume growth
Regional bus passenger journeys 0.0% (1.4%)
London bus miles operated 2.3% (0.9%)
* Adjusted to exclude amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs, and the incremental impact 
of IAS 19 (revised)
Overall bus performance review
T otal bus revenue increased by 5.6%, or £45.5m, to £863.3m (2015: £817.8m). The bus division 
delivered adjusted operating profit of £100.4m (2015: £93.0m), increasing by £7.4m, or 8.0%, in the 
year, resulting in a rise in adjusted operating profit margin of 0.2ppts to 11.6%. This performance was in 
line with the Board’s expectations for the year and marks the achievement of our £100m operating 
profit target, as planned. 
Regional bus operations
Regional bus revenue was £375.7m (2015: £359.9m), up £15.8m, or 4.4%, with growth in the second 
half of the year ahead of that in the first half. Overall, our regional bus operations saw stronger trends in 
commercial revenue and journey growth in the period, with concessionary revenue and numbers being 
consistent with the first half of the year. Passenger numbers remained the same year on year and 
increased 0.5% in the second half despite ongoing weakness in the north east economy, and 
redevelopment roadworks in and around Oxford.
Overview
We are pleased that our target to grow adjusted 
operating profit in bus to £100m by 2015/16 has 
now been achieved, as planned.
Overall, our bus operations achieved record full 
year profits, with good revenue growth and 
cost control.
Regional bus
Our strategy is to grow our share of the regional 
UK bus market both organically and through 
value adding acquisitions. We have improved 
operating profit margins by stimulating revenue 
growth and through continued cost efficiencies. 
We remain committed to our long-standing 
approach of providing high quality and value for 
money services for our local markets, combined 
with our innovative approach to marketing, 
smart-ticketing and other customer solutions. This 
is key to revenue generation, whilst cost savings 
will be achieved through benchmarking, sharing 
best practice and the introduction and 
development of further efficiency initiatives.
London bus
Our strategy is to maintain our sector leading 
performance and market position through key 
relationships with TfL, through strong and effective 
management, providing high quality and valued 
operations whilst seeking expansion through 
additional contract wins and acquisitions. A stable 
contract base and external factors such as 
inflationary revenue growth combine with cost 
efficiencies to contribute toward profit growth.
Go-Ahead is a leading bus operator in the UK both in and outside London. 
Around two million passenger journeys are made on our services every day
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 51
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Go-Ahead London: £487.6m
Go North East: £101.6m
Go South Coast: £89.6m
Brighton and Hove: £89.9m
Oxford Bus Company: £51.5m
Plymouth Citybus: £25.2m
Go East Anglia: £17.9m
Staff costs: 63.1%
Fuel: 15.2%
Engineering: 8.6%
Depreciation: 6.2%
Other: 6.9%
Business review continued
Adjusted operating profit in the regional bus division 
was £53.3m (2015: £48.7m), up £4.6m, or 9.4%, and adjusted 
operating profit margins increased to 14.2% (2015: 13.5%). 
Insurance claim costs increased slightly in the year. However, 
the division benefitted from lower bid costs as well as a 
reduction in fuel costs, as a result of a lower hedge price.
£m
2015 operating profit 46.7
IAS 19 (revised) adjustment (see finance review) 2.0
2015 adjusted operating profit 48.7
Change in:
Revenue growth 15.8
Cost base increases (13.5)
Fuel costs 2.0
Insurance claims (0.8)
Bid costs 1.1
2016 adjusted operating profit 53.3
IAS 19 (revised) adjustment (see finance review) 3.6
2016 operating profit 49.7
London bus operations
London bus revenue grew by 6.5%, or £29.7m, to £487.6m in 
the year (2015: £457.9m) despite a significant reduction in 
QICs income, impacted by roadworks and congestion in the 
capital, which eased in the latter part of the second half of the 
year as roadwork schemes began to conclude. QICs bonuses 
of £1.1m were received (2015: £4.6m) in the last quarter of 
the year. Like for like mileage increased by 2.3% following 
contract gains and increased volume created by additional 
buses contracted by TfL to reduce waiting times during 
extended periods of roadworks. In addition there was a 
higher volume of rail replacement work undertaken. Adjusted 
operating profit in the London bus division was £47.1m 
(2015: £44.3m), up £2.8m, or 6.3%. Adjusted operating profit 
margins remained at 9.7% (2015: 9.7%). As with regional bus, 
our London operations saw an increase in insurance claim 
costs and a reduction in fuel costs, reflecting the lower 
hedge price.
£m
2015 operating profit 42.3
IAS 19 (revised) adjustment (see finance review) 2.0
2015 adjusted operating profit 44.3
Change in:
Revenue growth – volume 30.5
Revenue growth – price 2.6
Cost – volume increases (22.3)
Cost – price increases (4.1)
QICs bonuses (3.4)
Fuel cost 2.0
Insurance claims (2.5)
2016 adjusted operating profit 47.1
IAS 19 (revised) adjustment (see finance review) 3.5
2016 operating profit 43.6
2016 Adjusted bus operating profit (£m)
£100.4m (2015: £93.0m)
Adjusted bus operating profit rose £7.4m, or 
8.0%, to £100.4m.
2016 Bus revenue (£m)
£863.3m (2015: £817.8m)
2016 Bus operating cost base (£m)
£770.0m (2015: £728.8m)
Our bus financial highlights
Overall, our bus operations achieved record full year 
profits, with good revenue growth and cost control. 
Regional bus London bus
1 6 15 14 13 12
20
40
60
80
100
120
34.8
35.4
40.3
37.9
43.2
43.6
44.3
48.7
47.1
53.3
100.4 93.0 86.8 78.2 70.2
52 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our performance in the Transport for London (TfL) quality 
league tables has been adversely impacted by London 
congestion with roadworks concentrated in some of the areas 
where we are the larger operator. Our performance has 
improved during the last quarter of the year. We operated 
99.4% (2015: 99.5%) of our target mileage before traffic 
congestion losses.
Capital expenditure and depreciation
Net capital expenditure for the bus division was £92.3m 
(2015: £36.1m), of which £71.8m related to the purchase of 
new vehicles and a further £12.9m on new depots.
Investment of £38.6m (2015: £19.9m) was made in introducing 
198 new buses (2015: 122 buses) into our regional bus fleet. 
Contract wins in our London bus business led to a spend 
of £33.2m (2015: £5.3m) on 118 new buses (2015: 29 buses).
We have a young green bus fleet with an average age of 7.8 
years. Depreciation for the division was £47.8m 
(2015: £45.7m).
Fuel
In the year, the bus division consumed around 130 million litres 
of fuel at a net cost of £116.8m.
Bus fuel hedging prices
We have continued with our bus fuel hedging programme 
which uses fuel swaps to fix the price of our diesel fuel in 
advance. Our core policy is to be fully hedged for the next 
financial year before the start of that year, at which point we 
aim to have also fixed at least 50% of the following year and 
25% of the year after that. This hedging profile is then 
maintained on a monthly basis.
With Board approval additional purchases can be made to lock 
future period’s costs in order to create certainty around one of 
our largest costs. The table below reflects the year end position, 
no significant purchases have been made subsequent to the 
year end.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
% 
hedged Fully Fully Fully 60% 30% 10%
Price 
(pence 
per litre) 45.4 36.4 34.7 32.3 33.4 35.1
At each period end the fuel hedges are marked to market 
price. The increase in the fuel hedge liability during the year 
represents the increase in the mark to market value of the fuel 
hedges during the year.
Overall bus outlook
Our bus division delivered its strongest ever financial 
performance and achieved one of the Board’s critical business 
strategies, to achieve an adjusted operating profit in excess 
of £100m. The new financial year has begun with similar trends 
to the second half of 2015/16. We expect continued moderate 
revenue growth, driven by regional bus performance and 
improving QICs payments in London.
Significantly reduced fuel costs will help offset any contract 
reductions from lower local authority contracting.
In regional bus, we will continue to drive revenue growth 
through our sector leading marketing initiatives and sales 
channels, using smart and mticketing to attract and retain a 
wider market, and further improve the customer experience. 
We will remain focused on cost efficiency while maintaining the 
quality and reliability of our services.
In London bus, growth in contract mileage is expected to be 
moderate in the full year, mileage overall will reduce with lower 
levels of additional work from TfL to compensate for roadwork 
congestion. Ongoing roadworks and congestion in London 
have eased and we expect an increase in year on year 
QICs income.
In 2016/17, we expect total capital expenditure to be 
over £100m due to the timing of London contract renewals 
and continued investment in our regional bus services.
Our operating companies
Revenue: £487.6m Revenue: £101.6m Revenue: £89.6m Revenue: £17.9m
Passenger journeys: 478m Passenger journeys: 66m Passenger journeys: 49m Passenger journeys: 8m
Average no. of employees: 7,010 Average no. of employees: 2,032 Average no. of employees: 1,613 Average no. of employees: 420
Revenue: £89.9m Revenue: £51.5m Revenue: £25.2m
Passenger journeys: 67m Passenger journeys: 24m Passenger journeys: 17m
Average no. of employees: 1,451 Average no. of employees: 804 Average no. of employees: 558
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 53
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 53
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report 54 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Rail
The rail division profitability was marginally ahead of the Board’s expectations through better than 
expected resolutions of contract negotiations, this was despite the operational challenges faced during 
the year and the fact that GTR did not contribute to profitability. Trading performance in both 
Southeastern and London Midland remained strong.
Rail performance review
The rail division has delivered a robust financial result in the year, slightly ahead of the Board’s 
expectations, helped by contract management benefits in the second half. Overall margins remained at 
historically low levels.
Overall passenger revenue growth was 4.6% (2015: 7.6%) on a like for like basis, with like for like 
passenger journey growth of 3.1% (2015: 3.9%).
Revenue
T otal revenue increased by 4.2%, or £100.6m, to £2,498.0m (2015: £2,397.4m) consisting of:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Net 
change
£m
%  
change
Passenger revenue
Southern 61.5 735.7 (674.2) (91.6)
Southeastern 753.0 728.6 24.4 3.3
London Midland 330.0 291.8 38.2 13.1
GTR* 1,352.6 484.0 868.6 179.5
Gross passenger revenue 2,497.1 2,240.1 257.0 11.5 
GTR revenue adjustment** (276.0) (120.9) (155.1) (128.3)
T otal passenger revenue 2,221.1 2,119.2 101.9 4.8 
Other revenue
Southern 7.2 55.8 (48.6) (87.1)
Southeastern 47.2 23.8 23.4 98.3
London Midland 44.3 50.3 (6.0) (11.9)
GTR 62.2 30.8 31.4 101.9
T otal other revenue 160.9 160.7 0.2 0.1 
Subsidy and revenue support
Southeastern subsidy 61.1 19.8 41.3 208.6
London Midland subsidy 52.0 56.6 (4.6) (8.1)
Southeastern revenue support – 23.0 (23.0) (100.0)
Southern revenue support 2.9 18.1 (15.2) (84.0)
T otal subsidy and revenue support 116.0 117.5 (1.5) (1.3) 
T otal revenue 2,498.0 2,397.4 100.6 4.2 
* Passenger revenue collected by GTR on behalf of the DfT
** Represents passenger revenue generated and payable to the DfT in excess of the management fee payable to 
Go-Ahead for operating the franchise, which is remitted to the DfT
Overview
Our strategy is to deliver the commitments of 
our existing franchises, provide good customer 
service and secure future franchises through 
competitive bidding processes, whilst maintaining 
the moderate returns generated from this sector.
We remain committed and focused on the GTR 
franchise which began as a fully merged operation 
in July 2015 and delivering the commitments of 
the directly awarded contracts in Southeastern 
and London Midland.
The UK rail market continues to offer significant 
opportunities over the coming years. We have an 
established strong position and a good long term 
track record in the industry and we aim to secure 
the future of rail profitability by exploring these 
and other opportunities.
UK rail franchises are governed by contracts 
between train operators, Network Rail and DfT. 
These contracts contain detailed performance 
regimes allocating financial responsibility and 
material provisions are made in these results 
reflecting management’s significant experience on 
the most probable outcomes of settling 
these amounts.
Rail overview
2016 2015
T otal rail operations
T otal revenue (£m) 2,498.0 2,397.4
Adjusted operating  
profit* (£m)
57.0 41.7
Adjusted operating  
profit margin
2.3% 1.7%
Like for like passenger 
revenue growth
Southeastern 4.9% 8.5%
London Midland 9.3% 5.4%
GTR 3.4% 8.8%
Like for like  
volume growth
Southeastern 2.3% 3.1%
London Midland 5.9% 2.1%
GTR 2.9% 6.4%
* Adjusted to exclude amortisation, goodwill 
impairment, exceptional operating costs, and the 
incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised)
Go-Ahead’s rail operation is the busiest in the UK, responsible 
for around 35% of all train passenger journeys
Business review
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 55
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report 1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2
10
20
30
40
50
60
40.0
24.3
32.0
41.7
57.0
Business review continued
Group’s overall net contribution to the DfT:
2016 
£m
2015  
£m
Net 
change  
£m
%  
change 
GTR revenue adjustment 276.0 120.9 155.1 128.3 
Southern’s core premium payments 18.8 228.6 (209.8) (91.8)
Subsidy receipts - Southeastern (61.1) (19.8) (41.3) (208.6) 
Subsidy receipts - London Midland (52.0) (56.6) 4.6 8.1
Revenue support - Southeastern – (23.0) 23.0 100.0
Revenue support - Southern (2.9) (18.1) 15.2 84.0
Profit share - Southeastern 39.9 23.9 16.0 66.9 
Profit share - London Midland 0.6 – 0.6 n/a
Revenue share - London Midland 3.1 – 3.1 n/a
Group’s overall net contribution to the DfT 222.4 255.9 (33.5) (13.1)
The GTR revenue adjustment of £276.0m reflects the difference between passenger 
revenue and the franchise payment from the DfT, as set out in the bid model. The GTR 
revenue adjustment was a payment to the DfT and increased by £155.1m in the year.
Premium payments, profit share payments 
and revenue share payments
Core premium payments, profit share payments and revenue share payments are included 
in operating costs.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Net 
change 
£m % change
Southern core premium 18.8 228.6 (209.8) (91.8)
Southeastern profit share 39.9 23.9 16.0 66.9
London Midland profit share 0.6 – 0.6 n/a
London Midland revenue share 3.1 – 3.1 n/a
Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted operating profit in the rail division was up £15.3m at £57.0m (2015: £41.7m), 
with adjusted operating profit margins increasing to 2.3% (2015: 1.7%). The commercial 
entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of privatisation and the 
relationships between them are governed by a number of contracts between the major 
participants; the DfT, Network Rail and train operating companies. In arriving at the 
operating profit numbers for the rail division, management have made judgements on the 
outcome of contractual discussions with Network Rail and the DfT. These principally 
relate to the allocation of financial responsibility for train cancellations and delays.
Rail bid costs of £5.4m (2015: £9.4m), including around £2.0m on rail franchise activity 
in Germany.
The rail division delivered a good financial result in the 
year, slightly ahead of the Board’s expectations. 
GTR: £ 1 , 21 0 . 4m
Southeastern: £ 86 1 . 3 m
London Midland: £ 42 6 . 3 m
Staff costs: 28.9%
Track access: 21.0%
Rolling stock lease payments: 17.3%
EC4T: 4.9%
Engineering: 3.7%
Depreciation: 0.3%
Fuel: 0.4%
Other: 23.5%
2016 Adjusted rail operating profit (£m)
£57.0m (2015: £41.7m)
Adjusted rail operating profit rose £15.3m, or 
36.7%, to £57.0m.
2016 Rail revenue (£m)
£2,498.0m (2015: £2,397.4m)
2016 Rail operating cost base (£m)
£2,470.9m (2015: £2,371.7m)
Our rail financial highlights
56 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 £m
2015 operating profit 25.7
IAS 19 revised adjustment (see finance review) 16.0
2015 adjusted operating profit 41.7
Change in:
Southeastern profit improvement 14.9
London Midland profit improvement 7.6
GTR/Southern profit reduction (13.6)
Lower bid costs 4.0
Lower central costs 2.4
2016 adjusted operating profit 57.0
IAS 19 (revised) adjustment (see finance review) 29.9
2016 operating profit 27.1
Individual franchise performance
GTR
GTR completed the integration of Southern, Gatwick Express, 
Thameslink and Great Northern to consolidate in one 
franchise from 26 July 2015. During this first period the 
franchise has been through significant changes, including training 
new drivers, revising the timetable, introduction of new fleet 
and the implementation of driver controlled operation. 
Customer satisfaction has been low during this transition as 
revised timetables have been introduced to create greater 
certainty for customers during a period of industrial action and 
unprecedented levels of absence. The management team and 
the executive directors are focused on delivering franchise 
obligations in accordance with the agreement with the DfT 
and are endeavouring to restore customer experience to 
expected levels. During this transitional phase the franchise has 
incurred significant costs and has not contributed to rail 
division profitability.
Southeastern
Southeastern recorded a strong trading performance. Overall 
passenger revenue increased by 4.9% (2015: 8.5%) on a like for 
like basis and like for like passenger numbers rose 2.3% 
(2015: 3.1%).
The franchise continued operating under its direct award 
contract terms, and whilst it is no longer eligible for revenue 
support, passenger journeys and revenue levels have exceeded 
bid expectations. Under the new contract, Southeastern made 
a contribution of £39.9m to the government during the year 
through a profit sharing mechanism.
London Midland
Passenger revenue grew by 9.3% (2015: 5.4%) in the year and 
passenger numbers increased by 5.9% (2015: 2.1%) on a like 
for like basis. London Midland’s trading performance improved 
in the second half of the year.
The franchise entered into a directly awarded contract on 
1 April 2016 and in the period to the year end passenger 
journeys and revenues exceeded bid expectations. We have 
been shortlisted to rebid for the West Midland franchise and 
look forward to submitting a strong bid.
Capital expenditure and depreciation
Capital expenditure for the rail division was £17.8m 
(2015: £6.2m) and depreciation was £7.4m (2015: £24.8m).
In 2016/17, capital expenditure is expected to be 
around £15m reflecting investment in GTR and Southeastern.
Rail outlook
This year has seen a continuation of the transition started last 
year in rail, with the industrial relations issues in that franchise 
being the primary area where a resolution is needed. We 
continue to focus our local management teams on delivering 
benefits for passengers while working with industry partners, 
such as Network Rail, to minimise the disruption caused by 
major infrastructure work associated with the Thameslink 
Programme. Our vision of every journey being taken care of is 
being cascaded across the franchises with programmes 
underway to enhance the customer experience and make our 
vision a reality.
Trading in the Southeastern and London Midland franchises 
continues to be robust and help offset underperformance 
in GTR.
Our operating companies
Revenue: £1,210.7m* Revenue: £426.2m Revenue: £861.1m
Passenger journeys: 335m* Passenger journeys: 72m Passenger journeys: 186m
Average no. of employees: 6,876* Average no. of employees: 2,402 Average no. of employees: 4,191
* The number shown for GTR, are combined figures for GTR and Southern operations.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 57
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 57
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Introduction to corporate governance
Andrew Allner, 
Chairman
8 September 2016
Dear Shareholder
As a Board, we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance.
In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) published the 
latest edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 2014 Code), 
which included a number of changes around directors’ remuneration, risk 
management and internal control, which we have adopted. In the report that 
follows on pages 58 to 107 and in the shareholder information on pages 
173 to 175, we set out our governance policies and practices and explain 
how the Group has applied the main principles and complied with the 
relevant provisions of the 2014 Code. We also explain some of the specific 
challenges we faced during the year and how we dealt with them.
Your Board
The balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the 
committees which support the Board are crucial to the effective functioning 
of the Board. I am very happy with the composition of our Board. It is strong 
and collegiate, in part because its members have relevant and diverse 
experience and there is the opportunity for everyone to contribute. We 
have constructive and challenging debate, enabling the Board to make the 
best possible decisions.
In March 2016, we welcomed Patrick Butcher to our Board as Group Chief 
Financial Officer. Patrick is an excellent addition to the Board, bringing strong 
financial and commercial management capabilities as well as significant 
transport sector and stakeholder experience. I am confident that Patrick’s 
skills will complement those of the longer serving directors and will 
strengthen the Board.
Details of Patrick’s appointment and induction process can be found on 
pages 66 and 81.
Culture and values
We recognise that the Group’s culture is fundamental to our long term 
sustainable success. It will distinguish us from our competitors and is crucial 
to the achievement of our strategic goals. Our new vision, attitudes and 
beliefs will be the drivers for our desired culture. They will ensure the right 
behaviours and will govern our interaction with customers, stakeholders 
and employees.
The Board will play an important role in the leadership and oversight of 
cultural change and ensuring that our culture, strategy and capability are all 
aligned in a way that creates value for our business. Our new vision, attitudes 
and beliefs, which have been created in collaboration with our employees 
and stakeholders, put customers at the heart of our business and will 
support value creation for our key stakeholders, including our shareholders 
and the wider society. They will underpin our business model and guide 
Board behaviours and decision making. We are at the beginning of a journey 
of cultural change and the Board’s role will continue to evolve as these 
changes are embedded throughout our business.
For background on our new vision, which is ‘a world where every journey is 
taken care of’ see page 33.
Board effectiveness
Following the external review of the Board last year, it was agreed that an 
internal review would be undertaken this year. This was led by the Group 
Company Secretary and assessed progress against the actions agreed as part 
of last year’s evaluation, in addition to discussing some current themes and 
common areas of boardroom best practice.
I am pleased to report that the review this year concluded that the Board 
continued to function well with good progress having been made in all of 
the areas of improvement identified as part of last year’s evaluation. It is 
evident that the changes we make each year in response to these reviews 
have improved the overall effectiveness of the Board. We look to continually 
improve and we will follow up and implement the recommendations from 
the internal review this year, as set out on page 68. 
Risk
The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group 
and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place. During 
the year, we commissioned an independent review of our approach to risk 
management which found Go-Ahead’s risk environment and culture to be 
robust, with an intrinsic understanding and management of risk across the 
Group. There were a number of recommendations which we have 
implemented, and which support the additional risk management 
responsibilities placed on the Board as a result of the recent changes to the 
2014 Code. Details of the review process and results can be found on pages 
41 to 45. Another new requirement of the 2014 Code is for Boards to 
make an annual viability statement and this can be found on page 41. 
“The Board will play an important 
role in the leadership and oversight 
of cultural change” 
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Go-Ahead complied in full with the provisions of the Code published in 
September 2014 which applied throughout the financial year ended 2 
July 2016. The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
and is available for review on the FRC’s website: http://www.frc.org.uk
58 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Summary of key Board 
objectives set for 2015/16
• Implement the external Board evaluation 
review recommendations 
• Improve focus in response to rail performance 
and customer experience
• Bid for second tranche of work for the 
Singaporean bus market
• Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy
• Implement the changes required to comply 
with the 2014 Code including risk process 
and appetite
Summary of key highlights 
for 2015/16
• Good progress made implementing the 
recommendations from the external Board 
evaluation review with improved Board 
effectiveness as a result
• More time spent on stakeholder management 
and corporate reputation at Board meetings, with 
particular focus on GTR, and regular updates 
from senior management
• Successful win of 25 route bus contract 
in Singapore
• Reviewed the Group’s dividend policy, including 
capital allocation and return opportunities
• Independent review of risk framework, with 
enhancements made to support the assessment 
of risk and risk appetite
Summary of key priorities 
for 2016/17
• Drive culture change and ensure all strategic 
decisions are underpinned by the Group’s new 
vision, attitudes and beliefs
• Continue to build relationships with key 
stakeholders, with a focus on partnership
• Ensure the Group’s strategy supports delivering 
value for our customers, employees, shareholders, 
stakeholders and the wider society
• Focus on improving performance and customer 
services at GTR
• Bid for third tranche of work for the Singaporean 
bus market
• Continued refinement of dividend and capital 
allocation policy and return to shareholders 
where appropriate
• Schedule ‘deep dive’ reviews into key risk areas 
and continue to develop risk appetite discussions 
and assessment
Corporate governance at a glance
For the full list of objectives, highlights/progress made and priorities categorised under each of our 
key areas of Board, strategy, contracts, bids and acquisitions, finance and risk and governance, please 
see pages 64 and 65
Chairman 17%
Independent non-executive 
directors 50%
Executive directors 33 %
2016 Composition
More information 
on pages 60 and 61
Attendance
Directors’ attendance at scheduled and unscheduled meetings they were eligible to attend: 
Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee
Board attendance Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled
T otal meetings 9 3 4 – 4 3 2 2
Andrew Allner 9/9 3/3 – – 4/4 3/3 2/2 2/2
David Brown
1
9/9 3/3 – – – – 2/2 2/2
Patrick Butcher
1,2
3/3 2/2 – – – – – –
Keith Down
1,3 
4/4 – – – – – – –
Katherine Innes Ker 9/9 3/3 4/4 – 4/4 3/3 2/2 2/2
Nick Horler
4
9/9 2/3 4/4 – 4/4 3/3 2/2 2/2
Adrian Ewer 9/9 3/3 4/4 – 4/4 3/3 2/2 2/2
1. Members of the executive team attended committee meetings by invitation as appropriate which are not included in the 
above attendance
2. Patrick Butcher was appointed to the Board in March 2016 and was therefore eligible to attend three scheduled and two 
unscheduled Board meetings
3. Keith Down officially resigned from the Board on 6 December 2015 but left the Group on 13 November 2015. He was therefore 
eligible to attend four scheduled Board meetings
4. Nick Horler missed one unscheduled Board meeting called at short notice due to a previously confirmed commitment
Responsibility of the Board
Board Strategy
Contracts, bids and 
acquisitions Finance Risk and governance
• Governing the Group’s vision, values 
and culture
• Approval of the Board’s policies and 
procedures including delegated 
authorities and the terms of reference 
of all committees of the Board
• Reviewing the performance of the 
Board, its committees and individual 
directors on an annual basis
• Determining the remuneration policy 
for the executive directors and senior 
management
• Succession planning and appointments 
to the Board and senior management
• Setting the long term 
strategy, targets and 
objectives to deliver value 
for our customers, 
employees, shareholders 
and other stakeholders
• Approval of the corporate 
plan for the Group and 
individual operating 
companies 
• Setting and monitoring key 
performance indicators 
• Oversight and monitoring of 
the corporate plan and 
against performance strategy
• Approval of material 
capital projects, 
investments, 
acquisitions, 
franchises and 
disposals
• Approval of changes 
to the Group’s 
corporate structure 
and constitution
• Approval of all share 
schemes and share 
buy-back 
programmes
• Approval of the 
Group and Company 
financial statements 
and ensuring that the 
Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and 
understandable
• Approval of dividend 
policy and 
recommending 
dividends payable
• Approval of key 
financial policies 
including accounting, 
fuel hedging, tax and 
treasury policies
• Managing a sound 
framework of risk 
management and internal 
controls and setting the 
Board’s risk appetite
• Approval of the Group’s 
key policies, including 
health and safety, 
corporate social 
responsibility and 
sustainability
• Ongoing review of the 
Group’s corporate 
governance framework 
and policies against best 
practice
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 59 Board of directors
Appointment: Andrew Allner joined the Board in October 2008 and was appointed as Chairman of the 
Group in April 2013
Length of service: 7 years and 10 months
Independent: On appointment
Skills and experience: Significant Board experience including Finance Director, Chief Executive Officer, 
Non-Executive Director and Chair roles. Experience across a broad range of UK and multinational 
companies and sectors. Former Partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers and a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. Graduate of Oxford University. Non-Executive Director of 
AZ Electronic Materials SA from 2010 to 2014, of CSR plc from 2008 to 2013 and of Moss Bros Group 
plc from 2001 to 2005
Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chair and remuneration committee 
Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Chairman of Marshalls plc (Chairman of the nomination 
committee); Senior Independent Director of Northgate plc (Chairman of the audit and risk committee 
and member of the nomination and remuneration committees) and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox 
Marble Holdings plc (member of remuneration committee)
Andrew Allner, Chairman
N R
Appointment: Patrick Butcher was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 
March 2016
Length of service: 0 years and 5 months
Independent: - 
Skills and experience: Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (South Africa). Over 15 years’ 
of experience as a finance director at Board level in transport and infrastructure companies. Former 
Group Finance Director of Network Rail as well as finance director roles at English, Welsh and Scottish 
Railways (now DB Schenker) and London Underground. Extensive experience working as a management 
consultant and auditor for Deloitte LLP . Former member of the British Transport Police Authority
Committee membership: Not applicable
Other directorships and offices: Not applicable
Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointment: David Brown was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chief Executive on 1 April 2011 
before his accession to the post of Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011
Length of service: 5 years and 5 months
Independent: - 
Skills and experience: Over 33 years’ experience in the industry with particular expertise in the London 
bus market. Former Managing Director of Surface Transport at Transport for London. Thorough 
knowledge and understanding of the Group’s business, having been Chief Executive of Go-Ahead’s 
London bus business from 2003 to 2006 and advisor to the main Board
Committee membership: Nomination committee member
Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Director of ATOC Limited (Chair of the remuneration 
committee) and Director of Rail Delivery Group Limited
David Brown, Group Chief Executive
Appointment: Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board in July 2010 and was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director in April 2013
Length of service: 6 years and 1 month
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Former city financial analyst. Extensive executive and non-executive experience in 
helping to grow successful and dynamic organisations. Held many previous non-executive directorships 
including St Modwen Properties plc, Victoria plc, T aylor Wimpey plc, T aylor Woodrow plc, The T elevision 
Corporation plc, Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, Shed Media plc and Gyrus Group plc
Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chair, nomination and audit committee member
Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Chair of The Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Katherine Innes Ker, Senior Independent Director
N
R N A
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appointment: Nick Horler joined the Board in November 2011
Length of service: 4 years and 9 months
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Former Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Power and Managing Director of 
E. On Retail. Extensive general management experience in UK and USA regulated markets, specialising 
in sales and marketing. Brings valuable insights to Go-Ahead’s development of social networks and 
digital marketing to attract new passengers
Committee membership: Nomination, audit and remuneration committee member
Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail plc (member of the audit and 
risk and nomination committees; Chair of Alderney Renewable Energy Limited; Chair of Meter Provida 
Limited and Meter Provida Investments Limited; Non-Executive Director of Thames Water Utilities 
Limited; Chair of Adler and Allan Limited and Chair of UK Power Reserve Limited
Nick Horler, Non-Executive Director
N A R
N
A
Key to committees
Nomination committee
Committee Secretary
Audit committee
Remuneration committee
Chairman
R
Appointment: Adrian Ewer joined the Board in April 2013
Length of service: 3 years and 4 months
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Became a chartered accountant in 1977 and, as a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants, has sound recent and relevant financial experience. Former Chief Executive 
Officer of John Laing plc and associated limited companies. Wealth of experience of major long term 
contracts. Strong customer focus and flair for strategy and finance. Experience in bidding and operating 
heavy and light rail franchises as well as rail infrastructure procurement
Committee membership: Audit Committee Chair, nomination and remuneration committee member
Other directorships and offices: Not applicable
Adrian Ewer, Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Carolyn Ferguson was appointed as Group Company Secretary in July 2006.
Length of service: 10 years and 2 months
Independent: -
Skills and experience: A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Qualified 
and practising coach and mentor. Extensive company secretarial, compliance, governance and pensions 
experience. Prior to her appointment as Group Company Secretary in July 2006, she was Assistant 
Company Secretary from 2001. Previous employment included working for Northern Electric, 
predominantly in the field of pensions.
Committee membership: Nomination, audit and remuneration committee secretary
Other directorships and offices: Not applicable
Carolyn Ferguson, Group Company Secretary
N
N
A
A
R
R
Directors’ tenure
*  The above is as at 2 July 2016, and does not include Keith Down, who left the business on 
6 December 2015 following a 4 year and 8 month term of office.
0-2 years: 17%
2-4 years: 17%
4-6 years: 33%
6-8 years: 33%
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 61
Shareholder information Financial statements Strategic report Governance
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 61
Shareholder information Financial statements Strategic report Governance Corporate governance report
Our new vision, attitudes and beliefs will support value 
creation for our key stakeholders, as well as the wider society 
The role of the Board and its committees
Go-Ahead is headed by a Board whose members are collectively 
responsible for the long term success of the Group. Principally, we achieve 
this through:
• Developing and monitoring the Group’s strategy, vision, attitude 
and beliefs
• Monitoring safety standards and championing improvements
• Setting strategic objectives for the operating companies 
within the Group
• Monitoring the performance of the Group
• Ensuring adequate funding and examining and approving major 
investment and acquisition opportunities
• Leadership and oversight of culture 
• Formulating key policies and reporting to shareholders
• Assessing the governance framework of the Group
• Reviewing internal controls and maintaining a robust system of risk 
management
• Ensuring that suitable procedures are in place for the planning 
of executive, non-executive and senior management succession
Our governance framework on the following page establishes a clear 
division of responsibilities for the Board. The Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive hold distinctly separate roles and the Board has adopted a written 
Statement of Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Group Chief Executive.
A full description of the Board’s role, which includes the specific 
responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our website 
www.go-ahead.com.
Our devolved framework
Day-to-day management of the Group and the implementation of strategies 
agreed by the Board across the Group and operating companies have been 
delegated to the executive directors. 
The executive directors meet with senior management in the Group and 
across our businesses both formally via monthly meetings and less formally 
on a regular basis. We believe that this devolved management structure 
enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way and allows 
the right balance between local and wider initiatives to deliver Group 
benefits. It also ensures the Board remains well informed about our 
operating companies, employees, passengers and stakeholders, enabling it to 
respond pro actively to the changing dynamics of the business.
Board meetings
We hold nine scheduled formal meetings a year, including a separate 
meeting dedicated to reviewing the Group’s strategy, which all directors 
attend. During the year, excluding standing items, the Board discussed a 
number of key areas including strategy, key risks and opportunities, financial 
performance, leadership, people and culture, governance and stakeholders. 
T opics of discussion centred around specific franchising and bidding 
opportunities, the political landscape and developments, stakeholder 
management and corporate reputation and deep dives into key risk areas 
such as cyber security and franchise bid process. This year, we also held three 
additional meetings where certain topics warranted more time, such as the 
challenges faced by GTR and financial forecasts in the corporate plan, 
particularly on the range of outcomes for the GTR contract. Additionally, we 
met to approve bids or contracts where decisions needed to be made 
outside the scheduled meeting timetable. 
We continued to hold informal meetings and Board dinners during the year 
as these have proved to be an important way of building relationships 
outside the boardroom which in turn have resulted in greater challenge and 
improved Board dynamics. Additionally, the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors periodically meet without the executive directors present. During 
the year, the Chairman also met individually with each director. 
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation 
with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary. Detailed 
briefing papers in relation to the business to be conducted at each meeting 
are circulated to the Board electronically at least one week before each 
meeting. The executive directors and Group Company Secretary are readily 
available should any Board member wish to receive additional information. 
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate and the 
small size of our Board provides an excellent opportunity for everyone to 
contribute. The Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for 
discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues where more time 
is now spent in Board meetings debating key issues and key financial matters. 
A further improvement from last year’s Board evaluation review was to 
adopt a clear flagging system for Board papers to guide whether these are 
for decision, for discussion or for information at Board meetings.
The areas which the Board focused on in 2015/16, the highlights/progress 
against these objectives together with the priorities for 2016/17 are set out 
on pages 64 and 65.
Leadership
Modern Slavery Act 2015
The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the Modern 
Slavery Act 2015 and the directors aim to ensure that slavery and 
human trafficking have no part in the Group’s supply chain. The Group 
has always been vigilant about employee welfare and aims to be 
transparent in its practices. During the year, the Board approved a new 
Modern Slavery Act Policy and a signed statement can be found on the 
Group’s website www.go-ahead.com. All operating companies across 
the Group have also approved the Group’s Modern Slavery Act Policy, 
with signed statements also on all individual operating company 
websites. Further details on the Group’s approach to human rights are 
set out on page 35.
62 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board and governance framework Board and governance framework
Board
• Responsible for the overall conduct and culture of the Group’s 
business
• Ensuring the long term sustainable success of the Group
• Setting strategy and direction
• Ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our  
system of corporate governance
• Accountable to stakeholders and shareholders                                                         
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be found on 
our website www.go-ahead.com
Shareholders
Operating company boards
• Operated as autonomous business 
units by local senior management 
who know their markets well
• Local senior management report 
directly on day-to-day management 
issues to the executive directors 
who in turn appraise the Board
Group executive team
• Comprises senior managers 
responsible for the key centralised 
Group functions
• Meets monthly with the executive 
directors to review the business and 
identify, execute and track synergies 
which can then be cascaded through 
the cross-business groups and 
forums
• Functions include, but are not limited 
to the areas of IT , procurement, bus 
and rail business development and 
marketing
Rail and bus steering 
groups and forums
Cross-business steering groups which 
comprise the managing directors in 
each operating company meet with 
the executive directors on a regular 
basis to:
• Explore and identify new 
opportunities and initiatives
• Share knowledge, experience and 
best practice across operations
These groups are supported by the 
cross-business forums which include, 
but are not limited to, health and 
safety, engineering, HR and 
diversity forums.
Group 
Company 
Secretary
Acts as an 
independent 
Board advisor, 
with responsibility 
for corporate 
governance and 
best practice, 
good information 
flows and 
ensuring that the 
decisions of the 
Board are 
implemented
More information 
on page 62
More information 
on page 84-103
More information 
on page 80-83
More information 
on page 71-79
Chairman
Leads the Board and is 
responsible for its 
effectiveness
Group Chief 
Executive
Leads the business and 
is responsible for 
executing the strategy
Group Chief 
Financial Officer
Provides strategic  
and financial guidance 
to ensure that the 
Group’s financial 
commitments  
are met
Senior Independent 
Director
Acts as a sounding 
board for the 
Chairman and 
intermediary for other 
directors where 
necessary
Non-Executive 
Directors
Constructively 
challenge and help 
develop the Group’s  
strategy
Audit committee
• Provides assurance to the Board over 
the Group’s financial statements
• Reviews the activity and performance 
of the internal and external auditors
• Reviews the integrity, adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control including the risk 
management framework and related 
compliance activities
Nomination committee
• Evaluates and makes 
recommendations regarding Board 
and committee composition, 
succession planning and diversity
• Oversees the Group’s leadership and 
talent framework, succession planning 
and Group-wide diversity initiatives
Remuneration committee
• Sets the executive directors’ 
remuneration policy to support 
strategy
• Sets performance targets and reviews 
outcomes in accordance with policy
• Oversees the reward framework for 
senior managers within the Group
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 63 Corporate governance report continued
Board
Board objectives set for 2015/16 Highlights/progress made against 2015/16 objectives Priorities for 2016/17
• Implement the external Board evaluation 
review recommendations 
• Further align succession planning and leadership 
development with strategic planning 
• Continue to strengthen talent strategy in the 
context of culture, values and 
behavioural framework 
• Continue to build upon and develop 
diversity initiatives 
• Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director 
and facilitate his/her induction to the Group
• Good progress made implementing the 
recommendations from the external Board 
evaluation review with improved Board 
effectiveness as a result
• Annual leadership review completed, 
including senior management succession 
planning oversight
• Non-executive director succession review 
completed with agreed rotation points
• Further progress with implementing a range of 
diversity initiatives under the direction of the 
new diversity steering group 
• Patrick Butcher appointed as Group Chief 
Financial Officer, with his induction completed
• Implement the actions from the internal 
Board evaluation
• Drive culture change and ensure all strategic 
decisions are underpinned by the Group’s new 
vision, attitudes and beliefs
• Continue to strengthen diversity initiatives and 
extend the work across the rail division
• Continue supporting the new Group Chief 
Financial Officer’s integration during the 
remainder of his first year with the Group
• Remain informed and abreast with best practice 
processes and reporting
Strategy
Board objectives set for 2015/16 Highlights/progress made against 2015/16 objectives Priorities for 2016/17
• Review of organisational structure to 
deliver strategy 
• Continue to develop framework for 
development and diversification opportunities 
• Further enhance collaboration and 
partnership working 
• Improve focus in response to rail performance 
and customer experience
• Organisational review completed, including 
succession, leadership and talent planning to 
support strategy
• Approach to strategy discussions and 
monitoring strengthened to develop and 
support framework
• Improved collaboration and partnership 
working, supported by the new vision, attitudes 
and beliefs, with their customer centric focus
• Increased focus on stakeholder management 
and corporate reputation at Board meetings, 
with regular updates from senior management 
• Executive remuneration closely aligned 
to rail performance and customer 
experience priorities
• Review and monitor delivery of the Group’s 
strategic priorities
• Understand the internal and external factors, 
including risks, that support the delivery of the 
Group’s strategic priorities
• Review approach to succession planning, 
leadership development and talent management 
to ensure alignment with strategic planning and 
corporate culture 
• Focus on improving performance and customer 
services at GTR
• Ensure our strategy supports delivering value for 
our customers, employees, shareholders, 
stakeholders and the wider society
• Effective roll-out of a ‘lean engineering’ approach 
across the bus division to reduce costs and 
improve productivity
Contracts, bids and acquisitions
Board objectives set for 2015/16 Highlights/progress made against 2015/16 objectives Priorities for 2016/17
• Consider further contract opportunities in the 
German regional rail market
• Bid for second tranche of work in the 
Singaporean bus market
• Direct award contract terms for 
London Midland
• Continue to undertake careful analysis to 
establish other opportunities which best 
complement our portfolio, match our risk 
appetite and offer attractive returns for 
our shareholders
• Successful win of two German rail contracts
• Successful win of 25 route bus contract 
in Singapore
• London Midland awarded a new contract 
enabling it to retain the West Midlands franchise 
until October 2017
• Ongoing research and due-diligence to consider 
further opportunities 
• Bid for the West Midlands franchise
• Continue to grow the business in Germany 
through further contract wins
• Bid for third tranche of work for the 
Singaporean bus market 
• Continue to ensure growth within the bus 
division and prepare for the threats and 
opportunities of bus franchising
• Work with stakeholders on the potential 
structure of a Southeastern bid in 2018
• Continue to undertake careful analysis to 
establish other opportunities which best 
complement our portfolio, match our risk 
appetite and offer attractive returns for 
our shareholders
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Finance
Board objectives set for 2015/16 Highlights/progress made against 2015/16 objectives Priorities for 2016/17
• Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy 
• Maintain focus on strong financial discipline and 
best practice policies and processes
• Execute the agreed transition plan for the 
change of statutory auditor 
• Respond to changes in the external regulatory 
environment to ensure best practice compliance 
and reporting
• Reviewed the Group’s dividend policy, including 
capital allocation and return opportunities
• Reviewed key financial policies, including 
delegated authorities and fuel hedging 
• Managed the transition of external auditor from 
Ernst & Y oung LLP to Deloitte LLP 
• New viability statement in this year’s Annual 
Report, with processes now in place to support 
this assessment annually
• Secured a bridging facility to provide a backstop 
option for repayment of the £200m 
corporate bond
• Continue refinement of dividend policy and 
return to shareholders where appropriate
• Continue to review fuel hedging policy and 
levels secured
• Re-finance the corporate bond with an 
appropriate instrument
• Maintain investment grade rating
Risk and governance
Board objectives set for 2015/16 Highlights/progress made against 2015/16 objectives Priorities for 2016/17
• Implement the changes required to comply with 
the updated 2014 Code including risk process 
and appetite
• Continue to review and strengthen cyber 
security policies and processes
• Review of processes to ensure full compliance 
with the 2014 Code
• Independent review of risk framework, with 
enhancements made to support the assessment 
of risk and risk appetite
• More in-depth review of information and cyber 
security, including review of risk management, 
controls, training and action plans
• New Board approved Enterprise Information 
Security Charter
• Internal audit review of IT security systems 
• Continue embedding the recent risk 
management and internal control improvements 
and review effectiveness
• Schedule ‘deep dive’ reviews into key risk areas 
and continue to develop risk appetite 
discussions and assessment
• Implement the recommendations of 
professional advisors to continue to strengthen 
and enhance IT Systems across the Group
• Review internal management of compliance and 
internal audit workstreams
• Participate and consult on developments in 
governance and best practice
New priority for 2016/17: Culture
As explained on page 33, during the year we introduced a new Group vision with supporting attitudes and beliefs. The Board believes that strong 
governance and setting the correct ‘tone from the top’ underpins a healthy culture, which in turn both protects and generates long term value for the 
business. Our new vision is ‘a world where every journey is taken care of’. It is future focused, aspirational and puts customers at the heart of our 
business. It sets out where we want to be. The Board has played an important role in leading this cultural change and has been mindful of the report on 
‘corporate culture and the role of board’ by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). The Board has a key role to play in influencing and shaping culture 
change as we embed it throughout the business and below are just a few of the Board’s key priorities on culture over the year ahead: 
• Lead by example and ensure good standards of boardroom behaviour
• Ensure the Group’s strategy and business model are aligned to our new values
• Ensure Board behaviour and decision making is underpinned by our new values
• Agree the indicators and measures to evaluate and report on culture change
• Engage with shareholders, employees and other stakeholders
• Oversee the embedding and integration of the Group’s values across the business
• Ensure we remain at the forefront of good governance, consult and engage as appropriate
• Dedicate time and resource to culture and the role of the Board
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 65 Corporate governance report continued
Effectiveness
Board composition
On 2 July 2016, the Board comprised the Chairman, three non-executive 
directors and two executive directors. Patrick Butcher became Group Chief 
Financial Officer on 14 March 2016 after Keith Down stepped down as 
Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015.
The biographies of all members of the Board, outlining the experience they 
bring to their roles, are set out on pages 60 and 61. 
Election and re-election to the Board
All directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief 
Financial Officer, who will offer himself for election for the first time in 
accordance with the Group’s articles of association.
The nomination committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions 
made by the directors continued to be effective, with the non-executive 
directors exercising strong and independent oversight. The nomination 
committee recommended that the Board should support the re-election of 
all directors. Full details of the review of the Board’s composition, the 
contribution of individual directors and time commitments can be found on 
pages 67 to 69.
Induction
All new directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly 
before, or upon joining the Board. This is a personalised induction 
programme tailored specifically to take into account their previous 
experience and background and is targeted to particular areas of focus. 
It includes, amongst other things, the business of the Group; the legal and 
regulatory responsibilities of directors; meetings and briefings from members 
of the Board; opportunities to meet with local senior management at 
operating companies; and opportunities to meet with key advisors.
Ongoing development
The Chairman regularly encourages the non-executive directors to 
continually update their skills, knowledge and ongoing familiarity with the 
Group in order to competently carry out their responsibilities. 
This is achieved as follows:
• Regular presentations at Board meetings from senior management on 
matters of importance. Examples during the year included presentations 
on key areas of risk, rail franchising opportunities and bidding, overseas rail 
and bus strategy and matters of operational significance
Patrick Butcher’s induction
“My induction programme enabled me to quickly develop my knowledge of all 
parts of the business and to gain an understanding of the interaction between 
the Group’s centralised functions and the devolved, autonomous operating 
companies. Meeting shareholders and other stakeholders was an important 
part of understanding the link to the strategic priorities of the Group and the 
timing of my appointment was such that I was able to contribute to the new 
vision, attitudes and beliefs work before it was rolled out across the Group. I 
believe that the positive cultural changes that these will evoke, underpinned 
by the customer centric approach, will differentiate us from our competitors 
and will support the achievement of our strategic goals.” 
Patrick Butcher, 
Group Chief Financial Officer
Expertise
Over 15 years’ experience as a finance director at Board level in  
transport and infrastructure companies
Focus areas:
• Group structure, including the devolved management approach  
and governance framework
• Understanding the key strategic priorities and how they add value 
to the Group
• Understanding the key risks and the internal controls in place to 
mitigate the risks
• Group culture including embedding the new vision, attitudes and beliefs
• Building relationships with key colleagues across the Group, stakeholders 
and advisors
Overview of the Group Chief Financial 
Officer’s induction programme
• One-to-one meetings with members of the Board, including the  
Group Company Secretary
• One-to-one meetings with the Group executive team responsible for 
the Group’s centralised functions
• Meeting with the local senior management teams in each of the Group’s 
operating companies, in addition to colleagues within the businesses
• Meeting independently with both the internal and external auditors  
and the key advisors to the Group and the Board
• Meeting with key financial stakeholders
• Training on his duties as a director, listed company regulations  
and the Group’s governance framework and policies
• Reviewing investor feedback reports and introductory meetings  
with a number of major shareholders
66 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Progress against actions
Good progress was made against the recommendations arising from the previous year’s external evaluation:
Recommendations from 2014/15 Board evaluation Actions taken in 2015/16
Stakeholder management and corporate reputation
Consider how to maximise the non-executive directors’ 
participation in stakeholder management
The Board now discusses stakeholder management and corporate reputation at each 
Board meeting, with the Group Chief Executive providing a comprehensive update. 
There were also presentations from senior management across the Group who were 
at the forefront of stakeholder management and corporate reputation. 
Strategy development/iteration
Consider the timing and format of more regular strategy 
updates
The Board felt that there was now a good balance between presentations and 
discussions on the annual strategy day, with much more free-flow discussion. Strategic 
discussions were also becoming more ‘business as usual’ as part of routine meetings. 
The mid-year strategy review had become a regular feature in the Board’s calendar, 
with the executive directors providing a more formal update on each of the key 
strategic priorities.
Organisation and Group structure
Review Group and organisation structure, and succession 
and talent planning to further support Group strategic 
objectives
During the year, the Board had discussed and debated the current organisation 
structure, in addition to considering succession and talent planning in the context of 
supporting the Group’s strategic objectives. Regular updates were now provided by the 
Group HR Director, with more detail provided for critical key roles and individuals. 
Further details can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 80-83.
Top down consideration of risk
Consider new approaches to the assessment of risk 
including how the Group improves its articulation of 
risk appetite
During the year, the Group’s internal auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), was 
asked to assess the Group’s risk management approach, with a focus on the top down 
risk management process. A number of enhancements were subsequently made to the 
risk management which are explained in more detail on page 77.
Non-executive director rotation and succession
Plan for the next Board refreshment and crystallising 
non-executive director rotation points in light of 
future needs
Led by the Chairman, a comprehensive review of non-executive director rotation and 
succession had taken place during the year, which had included one-to-one discussions 
with all non-executive directors. A plan and timeline had subsequently been agreed, 
including all non-executive director crystallisation points, and this would now regularly 
be reviewed at nomination committee meetings. Further details can be found in the 
nomination committee report on pages 80-83.
Executive team development and diversity
Develop internal and external candidate pools from 
non-traditional sources
The Board welcomed the more detailed information now provided as part of the 
Group HR Director’s regular updates and which enabled them to understand how the 
executive team were being developed and how they were supporting succession 
strength. With the Group’s new diversity steering group now firmly established, regular 
updates would now also be received on the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
Further information can be found on page 83.
• The non-executive directors have a planned programme of operating 
company visits during the year, in addition to attending the Group’s annual 
management conference
• Regular updates on the Group’s businesses as well as updates on 
corporate governance, sustainability and legislative/regulatory issues. 
Updates are by way of written briefings from the Group Company 
Secretary, presentations from management and presentations from 
external advisors. During the year under review updates again focused on 
the revisions to the 2014 Code, the new Market Abuse Regulations, the 
Modern Slavery Act and boardroom best practice
• Regular updates on political and market related issues as well as 
compliance training. During the year this included the Bus Sevices Bill and 
the referendum to exit the European Union 
Equally, as part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given 
the opportunity to discuss any additional own training and development 
needs. Directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying additional 
training needs and to take steps to ensure each is adequately informed 
about the Group and their responsibilities as a director. 
The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, ability 
and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a 
listed company.
Board effectiveness review
Following the external review of the Board last year, it was agreed that an 
internal review, facilitated by the Group Company Secretary, would be 
undertaken this year. 
The key objective of the review, which was undertaken from April to August 
2016, was to build upon the improvements made after last year’s external 
evaluation and to identify if there were any further changes that may 
enhance the Board’s effectiveness. 
Ahead of meeting individually with each Board member, the Group 
Company Secretary distributed a discussion document which had been 
agreed with the Chairman and included a copy of the previous year’s 
evaluation report and action plan. Following the individual meetings, the 
Group Company Secretary briefed the Chairman on her findings before a 
final report was sent to all Board members ahead of discussion at the next 
Board meeting. 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 67 Corporate governance report continued
Board review highlights
Overall, the internal review this year concluded that the Board continued to 
function well with the dynamics, culture and effectiveness all continuing to 
improve. The small size of the Board was cited as a positive by all, primarily 
as it provided the opportunity for everyone to contribute. Discussions were 
supportive, with open dialogue and constructive challenge, and individual 
members of the Board remained effective in their ability to discharge their 
duties and responsibilities. 
The review also found Board information to be comprehensive and received 
in a timely manner. The role of the Chairman, and the formal and informal 
initiatives which were now a regular feature of the Board’s operation, 
continued to be welcomed and it was this building of trust and the fostering 
of good relationships both inside and outside the boardroom which had 
served Board discussions well during the year. 
There was general satisfaction that audit, nomination and remuneration 
committees were functioning well. 
Opportunities to increase Board effectiveness
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness. There were a 
number of opportunities identified as part of this year’s internal evaluation 
which could serve to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board. These 
included: 
• Culture: A detailed review of the Board’s role in the governance and 
oversight of culture, with the Board’s dual leadership role of accountability 
and assurance
• Succession planning (executive): Increased focus on alignment to strategic 
planning and corporate culture as a means of selecting the individuals best 
suited to the Group’s future direction
• Succession planning (non-executive): T o support the plan and timeline 
now agreed, assess existing skill set of the Board and undertake gap 
analysis of Board requirements to achieve a better link to strategy and 
Group culture
• Risk: Embedding the recent improvements made to risk management 
processes during the year to ensure the Group remains at the forefront 
of effective risk management and best practice. Focusing on key risk areas, 
such as reputational risk, and the actions taken to mitigate such risks
Full details of the actions taken in response to these opportunities to 
increase Board effectiveness, including progress against them, will be 
provided in next year’s annual report.
Current themes and boardroom best practice 
In addition to reviewing progress against the actions from the previous year’s review, the one-to-one meetings with the Group Company Secretary also 
drew upon the current themes for boards and boardroom best practice in the context of Go-Ahead, including each individual non-executive director’s own 
experience:
Leadership  
and culture 
The view was that successfully embedding the Group’s new vision, attitudes and beliefs, with their underpinning customer 
centric view, would be a critical element in the Group’s long term sustainable success. There was an acknowledgement that 
work to embed culture change would present both opportunity and risk and the Board embraced the leadership role they 
would play and their accountability for the governance of culture. 
Risk
The Board felt that they had a good understanding of the risks to the business, with the work undertaken with PwC providing 
the assurance that risk management within the Group was effective in practice. The Board welcomed the now regular ‘deep 
dives’ into key risk areas which during the year had included reputation, franchise bidding process, disruptive technology and 
cyber security. 
Succession 
planning
The Board understood the importance of having a solid pipeline of high quality internal candidates who could be ready for 
senior management and Board positions in a range of situations. The regular updates now received from the Group HR 
Director enabled the Board to review internal talent and development practices in support of succession planning. It would be 
important that this focus continued, with processes aligned to the new vision, attitudes and beliefs.
Diversity
The Board welcomed the changes and initiatives underway to improve gender diversity below Board level, with the planned 
regular diversity steering group updates enabling the Board to be more informed about the progress being made and the 
industry challenges. While the initial focus had been on improving gender diversity in the bus division, it would be important to 
consider all areas of diversity across the entire business with the ongoing work on vision, attitudes and beliefs helping to 
support and influence behaviours. 
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Individual director effectiveness
In addition to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, the Group 
Company Secretary also facilitated ‘peer to peer’ director assessments which 
involved each non-executive director completing a self-assessment 
questionnaire and a cross-assessment questionnaire on each other. 
The questionnaires were designed to gain insight into the directors’ 
perception and views of the nature of the relationship between Board 
members and whether the Board processes, support and interactions with 
its committees were appropriate. Views were also sought on 
the administrative support for the Board and whether sufficient information 
and time were devoted to key issues and strategic matters. 
Executive directors were not required to complete self-assessment 
questionnaires or have cross-assessment questionnaires completed on them 
given that this process had taken place at their one-to-one appraisals. The 
executive directors were required to complete a cross-assessment 
questionnaire on each non-executive director. 
The Group Company Secretary compiled the information from the 
questionnaires into a report to ensure feedback from each director 
remained anonymous. The Chairman met with each director to discuss 
findings from the questionnaires. As in previous years, the Senior 
Independent Director led the process of evaluating the performance of the 
Chairman, in consultation with the non-executive directors and with input 
from the executive directors.
Information and support
Board procedures manual
The Board is supplied with high-quality information, presented in a form 
appropriate to enhance Board effectiveness. A comprehensive Board 
procedures manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the 
working of the Board and its committees, delegated authorities, the timely 
provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of 
directors, including standards of conduct and compliance. This manual is 
regularly updated to ensure it is consistent with current best practice.
Group Company Secretary
The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice 
and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with 
and that Board and committee papers are circulated to all directors by 
electronic means ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information. 
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as 
secretary to the Board and its committees. She reports to the Group Chief 
Financial Officer on all other company secretariat matters, including the 
management of the Group’s bus pension arrangements. Her biography can 
be found on page 61.
Independent advice
All directors may take independent professional advice, at the Group’s 
expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of their 
duties as director.
Our key stakeholders
Collaboration with stakeholders and partnership-working is fundamental in 
our approach and the long term sustainability of our business.
As a leading provider of transport in the UK, we face a wide range of 
complex issues. Some of those issues are within our control, some we seek 
to influence and others are more challenging to manage and require strong 
and collaborative relationships with our stakeholders, which can be seen to 
give us a positive advantage in our market.
Our customers, people, local communities, investors, both international and 
local governments, strategic partners and suppliers are our key stakeholders 
and all have a material impact on the successful delivery of our 
strategic targets.
Relations with stakeholders
One of the Board’s key priorities is to build relationships with all of our 
stakeholders through communication, collaboration and partnership 
working. We recognise that in certain parts of our business there are 
challenges, which we are working hard to address. We strongly believe 
that these challenges are best met by working together.
Our people
High levels of employee 
engagement, commitment and job 
satisfaction contribute directly to 
the success of Go-Ahead. The 
majority of our people are 
members of trade unions and our 
local teams look to foster good 
relationships with their 
representatives.
Investors
As a publicly listed company we 
provide open and transparent 
information which enables 
informed investment decisions to 
be made. Providing information so 
that investors can make informed 
decisions is a priority for us. 
Feedback from our shareholders 
forms part of strategic discussions 
in the boardroom.
Strategic partners 
and suppliers
Professional relationships with 
core suppliers and strategic 
partners help to ensure and 
support efficient delivery of our 
passenger transport services. We 
have an ethical procurement 
policy demonstrating our values 
extend to our supply chain and 
those who do business with us.
Communities
Our businesses are part of the 
local communities in which they 
operate. Our aim is to play a 
constructive role in the villages, 
towns and cities we serve, 
working closely with local 
community groups.
Governments and 
local authorities
Policy and regulatory changes 
affect our bus and rail business. 
Working closely with both central 
and local government enables us 
to provide input into new policies 
and ensure we receive regular 
feedback on our performance.
Customers
We need to know how we are 
performing and our passengers’ 
perception of our services so we 
can deliver change and 
improvements. We understand 
our local markets and strive to 
meet our passengers’ needs, 
including accessibility. Our new 
vision, attitudes and beliefs have a 
customer centric focus.
For more about our relationships with our stakeholders, 
visit: www.go-ahead.com
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 69 Relations with shareholders
Go-Ahead’s Board has always been committed to reporting in a fair, 
balanced and understandable manner and places great importance on 
transparent, relevant and timely communication with shareholders. 
Throughout the year, we maintained open and frequent dialogue with 
investors, providing updates on strategy, objectives and governance as well 
as listening to and responding to questions. 
The Group’s investor relations (IR) programme, managed by the Group IR 
team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors and current 
and potential shareholders through group and one to one meetings, 
presentations and conferences. The executive team are also in regular 
contact with sell-side analysts and meet with broker sales teams to 
communicate the Group’s key message to the people dealing with investors 
every day. We also communicate with the investment community through 
regular news releases and trading updates. Financial results and other 
material news releases are issued via the London Stock Exchange as well as 
being published on our corporate website www.go-ahead.com. 
The IR section of our website provides a wealth of information including a 
dedicated results centre, latest news, access to reports, presentations and 
other useful documents, as well as share price, market capital and other 
shareholder information. Investors and other interested parties can subscribe 
to receive news through email updates by registering their details on 
our website. 
Our website is fully responsive, enabling shareholders to access information 
on the move through a range of mobile devices. 
We continue to use other channels to engage with a wider audience 
through our social media accounts. We also have a range of award-winning 
social media activities in place across our bus and rail companies, updating 
passengers with realtime service information. Combined, Go-Ahead and its 
companies are reaching 250,000 people on Twitter and 140,000 on 
Facebook. During the year we were awarded the most effective 
communication of overall investment proposition and best use of digital 
communications within the FTSE 250 category, at the Investor Relations 
Society Awards 2015 for the second year running. More recently, we have 
been shortlisted for the best printed Annual Report in the 2016 Corporate 
& Financial Awards. 
Our investor base is largely UK focused and as such we focus our IR 
programme in the UK. Following our full and half year results we hold 
investor roadshows in London and Edinburgh for institutional investors. We 
also typically attend the annual conferences held by our corporate brokers. 
In addition to these programmed events, we respond to meeting requests 
from institutional and private holders throughout the year. While key 
shareholder engagement activities are undertaken by the executive directors, 
overall responsibility for ensuring that there is regular and effective dialogue 
with investors rests with the Chairman. The Chairman held a number of 
meetings with shareholders during the year and is available to meet 
investors and appreciates the opportunity to do so. The Senior Independent 
Director and committee chairs are also available to meet key investors on 
request and the Group Corporate Communications Director and Head of 
IR are available to provide updates on the Group’s sustainability and broader 
governance strategies to socially responsible investors. 
The IR team provides the Board with regular reports and updates, including 
analysts’ reviews, analysis of the shareholder register and shareholder 
feedback. Understanding our shareholders’ views is important to us. 
Following our full and half year roadshows our corporate advisors gather 
detailed feedback from institutional shareholders which is presented to the 
Board. This forms an important part of the Board’s strategic discussions and 
also assists the IR team in improving the quality of communications. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
In addition to individual meetings, the principal communication with all 
shareholders is through the Annual Report and the AGM. The AGM is 
attended by all directors and all shareholders are invited and encouraged to 
attend as it provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the 
Group and ask questions. There is also the opportunity to meet informally 
with the directors before and after the meeting. 
Full details of the business to be discussed at the Group’s next AGM on 
Thursday 3 November 2016 can be found in the Notice of Meeting. This is 
sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and will also be 
available on our website at www.go-ahead.com.
Corporate governance report continued
70 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit committee report
Adrian Ewer,
Audit Committee Chair
8 September 2016
Dear Shareholder
As Audit Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the audit committee’s 
report for the year ended 2 July 2016.
We take very seriously our governance requirements and the support we 
provide to the Board. As a result of regulatory change in recent years, the 
role of the audit committee has significantly expanded and it remains one of 
our key priorities to monitor and implement changes in the external 
regulatory environment and best practice. The committee has welcomed the 
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 2014 Code) and the 
FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial 
and Business Reporting published in September 2014, which applies to the 
Group for the first time this year. Our aim is to provide confidence in the 
integrity of the Group’s processes and procedures in relation to internal 
control, risk management and financial reporting. 
On the following page, we set out the committee’s objectives for 2015/16 
and the progress we have made against these objectives. We have also 
focused on a number of key areas during the year which are explained in 
more detail throughout this report.
Internal controls and risk
The committee places great emphasis over the need to maintain sound 
internal control processes  across the Group. In particular, we will look to 
strengthen our controls over IT processes. In addition to reviewing the 
internal control and risk management systems in place, we commissioned an 
independent review of the effectiveness of our framework. This review was 
a robust assessment of the effectiveness of our existing risk management 
and internal control framework and how well we monitor principal risks. 
As a result of this review, we made a number of enhancements which 
strengthen our approach to risk management and supports compliance 
with the new provisions of the 2014 Code and the spirit of the 
2014 Code’s guidance. 
Integrity of reporting
We review the external audit findings to support the accuracy and 
completeness of reporting disclosures. During the year this included ensuring 
consistency with the business model and strategy, providing assurance to the 
Board on the fair, balanced and understandable statement and assessing the 
new long term viability statement, more details of which are included in 
this report. 
In conjunction with the external auditor, the committee also focused on a 
number of key areas where significant judgements had been applied which 
could have a material impact on the financial statements. The committee 
discussed the assessment of the impact of the key judgements and the level 
of management challenge, particularly around provisions and accruals in the 
train operating companies. As explained on page 120 the rail industry 
operates through a number of complex contractual arrangements between 
the DfT, Network Rail and our train operating companies.  Given the 
difficulties that the Group has experienced with GTR, the committee has 
focused on the key judgements exercised by management over the 
expected outcomes of negotiations with the DfT and Network Rail on the 
GTR franchise.  The committee is satisfied that the amounts recognised in 
the accounts are fair estimates of the likely outcomes. More details on the 
significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
can be found on page 75. 
New external auditor
Following a competitive tender process in 2014, the proposal to appoint 
Deloitte LLP as external auditor received shareholder approval at the AGM 
on 22 October 2015. Chris Powell was appointed as the lead engagement 
partner from the same date.
Management and Deloitte LLP have worked collaboratively to ensure a 
thorough induction process has been undertaken. The induction has enabled 
Deloitte to gain a deep understanding of the business, its systems and 
processes. On behalf of the Board, I thank Ernst and Y oung LLP for their 
long-standing contribution to the Group over the years.
Our remit also included ensuring that the scope of the external audit and 
fee were appropriate and the effectiveness of the external audit was 
monitored, which was particularly important this year with the transition 
from Ernst & Y oung LLP to Deloitte LLP .
Looking forward to the next 12 months, the committee will continue to 
focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business.
Further details of the committee’s activities during the financial year ended 
2 July 2016 can be found on the pages which follow.
“During the year, we enhanced our 
risk management and internal 
control framework”
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 71
Shareholder information Financial statements Strategic report Governance Committee at work - external auditor transition 
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Group’s external auditor at the 2015 AGM 
following a rigorous selection process. This involved six firms submitting a response to 
a pre-qualification questionnaire with three being shortlisted to provide presentations 
to an audit tender panel (the AT Panel) comprising the Audit Committee Chair, the 
former Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller. The Board 
approved the AT Panel’s recommendation to appoint Deloitte LLP due to their 
extensive experience, particularly in a listed environment, and their knowledge and 
experience of the transport industry, particularly the rail and bus sectors.
Since then, the audit committee has overseen the transition of the external audit 
work to Deloitte LLP through a number of activities:
• An extensive handover with the former auditor, Ernst & Y oung LLP , was undertaken 
to ensure a smooth transition took place
• Deloitte LLP underwent a thorough induction process to enhance their 
understanding of our business, including meetings with our executive directors and 
senior managers across the business
• Deloitte LLP carried out a number of site visits across our operating companies
• Deloitte LLP created a detailed audit plan, setting out the scope and objectives of 
the audit together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment of 
the Group’s risk and controls, and proposed areas of audit focus
• Deloitte LLP has worked closely with the Group to consider key accounting 
matters that arose throughout the year
• Deloitte LLP completed a review of the interim results and carried out some 
advanced audit procedures on the period 10 results, and provided preliminary 
findings on the key financial and internal control matters
Audit committee report at a glance
Audit committee objectives 
set for 2015/16
• Continue to monitor changes in the external 
regulatory environment to make sure that we 
continue to have appropriate financial, 
compliance and internal controls in place
• Support the transition of the external auditor 
from Ernst & Y oung LLP to Deloitte LLP and 
facilitate the induction of Deloitte LLP
• Continue to ensure the committee is exercising 
its assurance oversight in the best possible way
• Support the Board in responding to the 
amendments to the updated 2014 Code, 
including assessment of risk appetite and the 
statement on the Group’s viability
• Review of scope and delivery of internal audit
Highlights/progress made 
against 2015/16 objectives
• Reviewed the significant financial judgements 
made during the year and in the preparation 
of the 2015/16 Annual Report and 
Financial statements
• Provided assurance to the Board on whether the 
2015/16 Annual Report and Financial statements, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable
• Managed the independent review of the risk 
management and internal control framework, 
and the implementation of a number of 
enhancements
• Considered the longer term assessment of the 
viability of the Group, including the financial and 
operational position of the Group and the 
potential impact of the principal risks and 
uncertainties
• Oversaw the handover process from external 
auditor Ernst & Y oung LLP to Deloitte LLP
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit 
process and recommendation on reappointment
Priorities for  
2016/17
• Assess the effectiveness of the enhancements 
made to systems of risk management and 
internal control processes during 2015/16
• Continual assessment and improvement of cyber 
security with focus on ensuring IT controls 
remain robust and dynamic
• Implement the recommendations of professional 
advisors to continue to strengthen and enhance 
IT systems across the Group
• Monitor changes in the external regulatory 
environment and best practice
• Ensure the committee is exercising its assurance 
oversight role in the best possible way
• Carry out an assessment of the external auditor’s 
effectiveness
• Review of scope and delivery of internal audit 
and monitor progress
• Continue to oversee the significant 
financial judgements
More information  
on pages 73 to 79
Audit committee membership
Adrian Ewer Committee Chair
Katherine Innes Ker Senior  
Independent Director
Nick Horler Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as 
Group Company Secretary
Attendance 
Katherine Innes Ker
Nick Horler
Adrian Ewer
72 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Committee purpose and responsibilities
The purpose of the committee is to monitor and review the Group’s 
financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of its internal controls and 
risk management framework, the internal and external audit processes and 
the Group’s whistleblowing procedures. The committee reports to the 
Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of which have been 
accepted during the year.
Committee composition, skills and experience
The membership of the committee, which comprises three independent 
non-executive directors, has been selected with the aim of providing the 
range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its 
responsibilities in a robust and independent manner. Adrian Ewer is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has significant financial 
experience in the UK listed environment, enabling him to fulfil his role as 
Audit Committee Chair.
How the committee operates
The audit committee usually meets at least four times a year, excluding 
meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance 
evaluation. Members’ individual attendance at committee meetings for the 
year under review can be found on page 59.
Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior to a 
Board meeting in order to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with 
the Board. Meetings are attended by the independent non-executive 
directors. By invitation, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Financial Officer and internal and external auditors regularly attend meetings. 
In order to ensure momentum is sustained and matters progressed, the 
Audit Committee Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings with key 
advisors between main committee meetings.
At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate meetings 
with the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors 
being present. 
Terms of reference
The committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually and 
approved by the Board. They are available on our corporate website at 
www.go-ahead.com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
During the year, the committee reviewed the recently revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2016 and the associated Guidance on Audit Committees 
to reflect the forthcoming UK legislation on audit committees and auditor 
appointments. The committee’s terms of reference and policy on non-audit 
services have been updated accordingly to ensure compliance.
Effectiveness of the audit committee
During the year, the committee’s performance was reviewed by the Group 
Company Secretary as part of the internal Board evaluation. The review 
found the committee to be effective and well run, with the committee 
embracing the changes arising from the 2014 Code. The resultant 
enhancements to the processes supporting the assessment of risk and 
internal controls, risk appetite and the statement on the Group’s viability 
had added value, in addition to ensuring that the Group remained abreast 
of best practice.
Financial reporting
The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is to 
review, with both management and the external auditors, the 
appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements 
concentrating on, amongst other matters:
• The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices
• Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where 
significant issues have been discussed with the external auditor
• The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting 
standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements, 
including the 2014 Code
• Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the Group’s 
financial reporting
• An assessment of whether the Annual Report (the Report), taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. This assessment forms the basis 
of the advice given to the Board to assist in making the statement 
required by the 2014 Code
• Reviewing the assumptions and providing assurance to support the long 
term viability statement
Fair, balanced and understandable
At the request of the Board, the audit committee has considered whether, in 
its opinion, the 2015/16 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, 
balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy. 
The steps that the committee followed before arriving at their 
recommendation were as follows: 
Collaborative process
A collaborative approach is taken to creating the Report and Financial 
Statements which involves direct input from key report contributors, 
including the Board and committee, throughout the process and includes 
the following: 
• Early planning and implementation of timetable with experienced project 
managers for each section 
• Briefings on the requirements of the fair, balanced and understandable 
requirements for all involved; this includes the Group corporate 
communications, company secretariat and legal teams as well as Group 
finance to validate the appropriateness of material disclosed. The inclusion 
of these various departments, with input from operating divisions as 
appropriate, ensures the balance, completeness and accuracy of 
the Report
• Validation of data and information included in the Report undertaken 
both internally and by the external auditor
• A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across all sections 
that aim to ensure consistency and accuracy
• Early drafts of the Report available to the audit committee to ensure 
timely review and allow comments to be incorporated 
• Audit committee recommendation to the Board 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 73 Audit committee report continued
In considering whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable, the committee reflects upon the information it has 
received and discussions throughout the year. The committee considers 
a number of key questions which include:
Is the Report fair?
• Is the whole story presented and has equal weight been given to 
all messages?
• Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting, with key 
messages reflected in both?
• Is the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy 
and objectives in the report consistent with the Board’s understanding?
• Are KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the 
financial reporting?
Is the Report balanced?
• Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in 
the front and the financial reporting in the back of the report, and does 
the messaging reflected in each remain consistent when read 
independently of the other?
Is the Report an appropriate document for shareholders?
• Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with 
appropriate prominence?
• Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the key 
financial and internal control matters reported in this audit committee 
report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and 
critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
• How do these compare with the risks that the external auditor Deloitte 
LLP include in their report?
Is the Report understandable?
• Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report, with the 
important messages highlighted appropriately throughout?
• Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects 
the whole story?
Conclusion
Following its review, the committee concluded that the disclosures, and the 
processes and controls underlying their production, were appropriate and 
recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for the year ended 2 July 2016 is fair, balanced 
and understandable.
Long term viability statement
During the 2015/16 financial year, the committee’s terms of reference were 
extended to include providing advice to the Board on the form and basis 
underlying the long term viability statement.
The committee reviewed the process and assessment of the Group’s 
prospects made by management including:
• The review period and alignment with the Group’s internal long 
term forecasts
• The assessment of the capacity of the Group to remain viable after 
consideration of future cash flows, expected debt service requirement, 
undrawn facilities and access to capital markets
• The modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Group’s principal 
risks materialising using several plausible scenarios
Management also sought independent external advice on best practice to 
ensure appropriate compliance with the requirements of the 2014 Code.
Details of our viability statement can be found in the ‘managing risk’ section 
on page 41.
External audit
The committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship 
with, and performance of, the external auditor. This includes making the 
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
external auditor, assessing their independence on an ongoing basis and 
negotiating the audit fee.
Tenure
Deloitte LLP were appointed as the Group’s external auditor in October 
2015 following an audit tender and, in accordance with the 2014 Code, the 
Group will be required to put the external audit contract out to tender by 
2025. In addition, Deloitte LLP will be required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years and, as a result, the current 
lead audit partner will be required to change in 2021.
The committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the need 
to tender the audit, ensuring the Group’s compliance with the 2014 Code 
and the reforms of the audit market by the UK Competition and Markets 
Authority. Accordingly, the Group confirms that it complied with the 
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority’s Order for the 
financial year under review. For the financial year ending 1 July 2017, the 
committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be 
reappointed under the current external audit contract and the directors will 
be proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the 2016 AGM.
External auditor effectiveness
During the year, the Audit Committee Chair led the process to assess the 
effectiveness of the audit process. The primary purpose of this assessment 
was to gain assurance that the external auditor had conducted a 
comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit. It was particularly important 
this year in order to set standards and expectations with Deloitte LLP , who 
had just completed their first full year as the Group’s new statutory auditor. 
Through a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the external auditor 
about its performance, the objectives of the process were to:
• Assess each phase of the audit process against a quality framework, as 
shown in the table on page 76
• Discuss with the external auditor what areas went well and what could 
be improved
• Result in optimised assurance being derived from the audit
The assessment was carried out in conjunction with each key phase of 
the audit.
The observations from this assessment for the 2015/16 financial year were 
presented and discussed at the September 2016 Board meeting and it was 
concluded by the audit committee that the audit process was effective.
74 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key financial and internal control matters
During 2015/16, the committee considered the following key financial and internal control matters in relation to the Group’s financial statements and 
disclosures, with input from management and the external auditor
Key financial and internal control matters for 2015/16 How the committee addressed these key financial matters 
Compliance with franchise terms and conditions relating to the rail 
components of the Group, specifically relating to the accounting for 
related income and costs arising from franchise agreements. 
Please see page 120 for further information.
The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to 
income and cost arising from franchise agreements. At interim and year 
end reviews, a full schedule of material income statement and balance 
sheet is assessed against the committee’s expectations and discussed with 
the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and, where 
appropriate, the external auditor.
Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities, specifically relating to 
third-party claims and lease return and dilapidation provisions for rolling 
stock, stations, depots, other properties and measurement of 
uninsured liabilities. 
Please see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements for 
further information.
At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease 
return and dilapidation provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer. Management’s review is 
supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who 
independently assess the required provision based on their industry 
knowledge and an understanding of the Group’s specific circumstances. 
Increases in provisions, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed 
for reasonableness in light of these reports and the Group’s specific 
circumstances.
Impairment testing in respect of the carrying value of goodwill on the 
Group’s investments. 
Please see note 13 of the consolidated financial statements for 
further information. 
The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as 
presented by management, is challenged by the committee. This is done 
by assessing the expected performance of the individual cash generating 
units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of 
return used to assess net present value of future cashflows. The 
committee also reviews historic performance against expectations set in 
previous years.
Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension liabilities. 
Please see note 27 of the consolidated financial statements for 
further information.
Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by 
independent actuaries. Additionally the committee assesses the underlying 
assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that the actuaries’ 
own assumptions are appropriate for the Group. The committee also 
discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions with the Group’s 
external auditor.
Ongoing review of changing issues such as the impact of the European 
Working Time Directive on holiday pay. 
The audit committee’s review of risks and uncertainties in the wider 
economy encompasses emerging risks and considers each when 
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. The committee will seek 
specific legal or other professional advice to support its assessment of 
areas that could affect the Group.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional items in the year 
end accounts. 
Please see note 7 of the consolidated financial statements for 
further information.
The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income 
or costs in light of the FRC recommendations of a balanced and 
consistent approach. The committee is mindful of the need to understand 
the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact 
of large and unusual items separated out as necessary to avoid distortions 
from such non-recurring aspects.
Ensuring operating company compliance with Group policies and 
procedures and maintaining the required financial control environment.
The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Chief Financial Officer, approves the scope of internal audit including the 
cycle of visits to test operating company compliance and financial control, 
based on a risk assessment. The results of the internal audit visits are 
considered by the committee, together with management’s responses to 
any improvement points. Control matters and reporting issues identified 
as part of the external auditor interim and year end audits are also 
reviewed by the committee which considers the adequacy of any 
management responses. In addition management ensure that the 
recruitment and review process for operating company directors gives 
confidence in the calibre of the operating company teams and their 
management, and review of the control environment in which 
they operate.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 75 Independence, objectivity and fees
The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware 
of the situations that may give rise to the impairment of auditor 
independence. The audit committee carefully considers the objectivity of the 
auditor on an annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and the 
relationship with the Group.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee 
has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor:
• The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can 
be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a 
natural extension of their audit work or there are other overriding 
reasons that make them the most suitably qualified to undertake  
the work
• The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to 
the Group, such as internal audit and litigation support; the full list of 
which can be found in the committee’s terms of reference
• The provision of certain non-audit services (including accounting and tax 
services if the fees exceed a cumulative £50,000) is subject to approval by 
the audit committee
• The ratio of the external auditor’s audit to non-audit fees during the year, 
as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by 
the committee
During the financial year, the principal external auditor’s fees were £0.6m 
(2015: £0.5m); in addition, non-audit fees of £0.1m (2015: £0.2m) were 
payable to the principal auditor. In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other 
providers during the financial year were £1.4m (2015: £1.5m). This 
comprised of £1.1m being paid to KPMG in respect of bid-modelling costs 
and £0.3m to PwC for internal audit work.
A limited number of our smaller operating companies used Grant Thornton 
as their auditor during the year. T otal fees to Grant Thornton during the 
financial year were less than £0.1m (2015: less than £0.1m). Grant Thornton 
received non-audit fees of less than £0.1m (2015: less than £0.1m).
Audit committee report continued
External auditor effectiveness
The audit committee reviewed an audit quality framework which assessed the following key audit phases:
Phase Areas covered
Audit planning and design • T eam structure and leadership demonstrated by the audit partner
• Integrated audit approach
• Audit tailored to the business
• Leveraging sources of assurance
• Use of innovation and technology
Audit execution • Behavioural factors including professional challenge
• T echnical excellence
• Communication and audit reporting
• Audit efficiency and project management
Independence and quality control • Review of external auditor’s internal quality control procedures
• Review of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor
• Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with the 2014 Code, paying 
specific attention to the sections on independence and quality assurance and training
Role of management • Detailed questioning of the role of management both at operating company and 
Group level
76 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How we manage the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system
The Board’s responsibility
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of 
internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. Some of these 
responsibilities have been delegated to the audit committee as outlined 
below. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure 
to achieve the Group’s business objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal control and risk management
The key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions within 
the Group’s system of risk management are detailed on page 41. 
During the year, the committee commissioned PwC, which is also the 
Group’s internal auditor, to undertake an independent review of the Group’s 
existing risk management processes. The review found that Go-Ahead’s 
approach to risk management is supported by a structured oversight and 
established processes for identifying, quantifying, reporting and monitoring 
risk. In particular, PwC noted that:
• There is an inherent and embedded understanding of the key risks facing 
the Group on a day-to-day basis
• Strategic risk perspectives and operational risk issues are brought to the 
attention of the Board by the Group Chief Executive through hands-on 
management of the business
• Willingness to take on risk is debated by the Board as a normal part of 
decision-making. The Group’s risk appetite is inherently understood
• Appropriate governance structures are in place to provide oversight over 
key risks and controls at Group, rail and bus operating company level. Risk 
is regularly discussed through these structures
• Periodic risk reporting takes place from the operating companies 
to the audit committee and Board in line with the agreed process 
and methodology
• Risk and opportunities are actively identified during the bid process for 
new franchises or acquisitions
• Key risk areas are identified, assessed and prioritised
• Progress against actions is monitored by senior management, the 
executive directors and the audit committee
The review however did identify that risk management could be enhanced, 
particularly around the assessment of the controls in place and the focus of 
discussions throughout the process. A number of enhancements were 
therefore made to our risk management process:
• Risk registers have been updated to rate more effectively the strength 
of the control/mitigation in place and the effectiveness of the 
assurance provided
• T o improve the formal biannual discussions at operating company board 
meetings, a new self-assessment document has been created with the aim 
of helping management consider what are the most important risk and 
control areas to discuss. This then flows up to the audit committee and 
Board, thus ensuring the right risk management discussions at this level
These enhancements were introduced for the year ending 2 July 2016 and 
the committee found that these changes improved the effectiveness of their 
review of the internal control and risk management systems. The committee 
will continue to review whether there are further enhancements that can be 
made, particularly in the context of PwC’s review and the new requirements 
of the 2014 Code.
Key features of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system
The key features of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
system are set out on the following page.  The Board has confirmed that 
through its audit committee and the committee’s review of the key financial 
and internal control matters for 2015/16 as detailed on page 75, it has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management, and considers that this system of 
internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to 
the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 77 Audit committee report continued
Key features of the Group’s risk management and internal control
Group structure
The Group’s devolved organisational 
structure supports an effective 
top-down/bottom-up approach to 
risk management and control
Leadership
Clear leadership from the Board 
with the executive directors playing 
an integral role in working with 
operating companies
Board-level reporting
Regular review of reports received 
from the Group’s internal auditor, 
health and safety consultants, 
external auditor and the executive 
directors
Health and  
safety reporting
Health and safety standards established 
across all operating companies and key 
performance indicators monitored on 
a monthly basis at operating company 
and Board level
Strategy and  
financial reporting
A comprehensive Group-wide 
system of financial reporting, 
budgeting and cash forecasting and 
control through which the 
consolidated financial accounts are 
prepared and submitted to the 
Board monthly and from which the 
interim and annual consolidated 
financial reporting is derived
Compliance  
management
Annual certification by each 
operating company that it has 
adhered to the Group’s policies and 
procedures manual, which reinforces 
the Group’s corporate governance, 
internal control processes and 
management of risk
78 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Internal auditor
The Group’s internal audit function has been outsourced to PwC on a 
rolling 12 month contract, with overall responsibility and direction being 
retained by the audit committee. The internal audit function provides 
assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls as identified as part 
of the risk assessment process. In addition to meetings with local 
management, the internal auditor reports to the executive directors at least 
six times a year and to the audit committee at least four times a year. 
The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with PwC 
and maintains the procedures necessary to ensure appropriate 
independence of the internal audit function.
In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for the two 
years ending June 2017, the committee reviewed reports confirming the 
findings from the internal audit reviews undertaken, the actions taken to 
implement the recommendations made in these reports and the status of 
progress against previously agreed actions. 
Whistleblowing and anti-bribery procedures
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, 
openness and accountability. The Group and all operating companies have 
whistleblowing policies in place. Employees are encouraged to raise genuine 
concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully 
and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken. Any matters of 
significance are reported to the audit committee.
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and procedures have 
been established to ensure that compliance is achieved. These set out what 
is expected from employees to ensure that they protect themselves as well 
as the Group’s reputation and assets. Training has been provided to the 
Board and senior management and is refreshed on a regular basis. Any 
breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially 
justifying immediate dismissal.
Focus on cyber security
Go-Ahead continues to focus on ensuring 
it is protected against the threat of cyber 
security attack as resilient IT systems are 
essential to our commercial success. We 
take the protection of data security and 
privacy seriously and have policies in place 
to ensure our data is handled sensitively, 
with respect, and in a way that complies, as 
a minimum, with any legal requirements.
Our Board of directors has endorsed an internal Enterprise 
Information Security Charter demonstrating its commitment to 
treating information and cyber security as a critical business issue. 
Work has been carried out across the Group to create a 
security-aware workforce and working environment and to 
implement controls that are proportionate to risk. We have also 
ensured that individuals who are information owners are 
accountable and understand and comply with information security 
policies and procedures.
All employees of the Group have responsibility for information 
and security and an ongoing communications campaign, alongside 
regular briefing and training sessions, ensures its importance is 
appreciated. We have recently created a new aide-memoire for 
operating companies to help them identify incidents and ensure 
they’re reported internally. We regularly review our crisis response 
and probe for vulnerabilities in our automated and manual 
responses. 
However, it is vital that as technology and law change our business 
procedures also change and follow industry best practice. We 
therefore work with data protection agencies and IT advisors to 
strengthen our systems and procedures. We also update our 
procurement systems and processes to ensure that our supplier 
base understands the importance of this issue and we are 
members of industry groups and London First’s Security and 
Resilience Network supported by world experts in security 
counter terrorism, resilience, business continuity and policing.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 79 Nomination committee report
Andrew Allner,
Nomination Committee Chair
8 September 2016
Dear Shareholder
During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as 
key priorities in last year’s annual report. 
Succession planning
I am pleased to report that I completed the review of the Board’s 
composition during the year, which included meeting with each non-
executive director to discuss their tenure and contribution to the Board. T o 
support the plan and timetable now agreed, one of our priorities for the 
year ahead will be to assess the existing skill set of the Board. We will then 
develop a skills gap analysis to ensure that there is a link between Board 
succession planning and the development of our strategy and culture.
The committee also received regular updates on the senior management’s 
leadership and talent framework and pipeline and this year there was a 
‘deep dive’ assessment of critical roles, with an increased focus on ensuring 
that this work more closely aligned with our succession planning and 
strategic planning. This year’s internal Board evaluation review did however 
identify that there was still more to be done to align senior management 
succession planning to strategic planning and corporate culture and we will 
oversee this work as a means of selecting the individuals best suited to the 
Group’s future direction.
Appointment of Group Chief Financial Officer
During the year, the committee was responsible for leading the process for 
appointing a new Group Chief Financial Officer, to replace the departing 
Group Finance Director. In March 2016, the Board was pleased to welcome 
Patrick Butcher to the Group and full details of the process undertaken and 
induction are provided on pages 81 and 66 respectively. 
Culture
Our employees will play an important role in shaping our culture and their 
behaviours will support our new vision, attitudes and beliefs. The committee 
will reflect this in its oversight of succession planning, leadership 
development and the talent framework and will also build them into the 
Board’s recruitment, development and succession considerations. 
Diversity
The Group has continued to focus on improving diversity. The diversity 
steering group established last year has provided support and direction to 
the diversity and inclusion forum, in addition to reviewing strategy and 
guiding policy across the Group and operating companies. Diversity 
initiatives continue to develop and we now have representatives from the 
rail division on the diversity steering group, which will enable us to extend 
this work across the rail division over the coming year. 
As a Board, we take our responsibility to monitor developments in 
corporate governance very seriously, to ensure that we remain at the 
forefront of good governance practices. Examples of this for the nomination 
committee during the year included consideration of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s discussion and feedback papers on UK Board Succession Planning 
and The Governance Institute’s research report on the role of the 
nomination committee. One of our key focus areas for the year ahead will 
be to consider in more detail the actions that we can take to further 
improve nomination committee effectiveness. 
“During the year, the committee led 
the process to appoint a Group 
Chief Financial Officer”
80 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Committee at work – recruitment of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer 
In July 2015, the search for a Group Chief Financial Officer to replace the 
departing Group Finance Director, commenced. The nomination 
committee directed the selection process, which included agreeing a 
candidate profile and engaging Russell Reynolds (Russell) to work with the 
committee on this assignment. Russell has no other connection to the 
Group. In addition to strong leadership and people development qualities, 
the committee sought candidates with a track record of delivery and 
credibility and a strong focus on commercial finance and contract work, as 
well as seeking a number of key performance and personal attributes 
aligned to the Group’s culture. 
Russell researched the market for potential candidates to produce a ‘long 
list’ of candidates for the committee’s consideration. From this ‘long list’, the 
committee agreed that a number of candidates, including one internal 
candidate, should meet with the Group Chief Executive and Group HR 
Director before a ‘short list’ of candidates were invited to attend a site visit 
with the Group Chief Executive. Patrick Butcher emerged as the preferred 
candidate, meeting the profile requirements with his skills and experience. 
Having confirmed his interest in the role, he met with the Chairman/
Nomination Committee Chair and then the remaining members of 
the Board. 
An important part of this process was for the Nomination Committee 
Chair to ensure that all Board members were kept up to date. In addition 
to the committee meetings held throughout the process, the Board and 
the remuneration committee also held meetings to specifically discuss the 
committee’s recommendation and to agree the appropriate remuneration 
package, before approving Patrick’s appointment, which was announced on 
2 November 2015.
Patrick Butcher joined the Group as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 
March 2016. He came from Network Rail where he had been Group 
Finance Director since 2009, and brings a wealth of industry experience to 
the position having held finance director roles at English, Welsh and 
Scottish Railways (now DB Schenker), Mapeley Limited, London 
Underground and King’s College Hospital. His early career was spent at 
Deloitte & T ouche as a management consultant and auditor. Until recently, 
he was also a member of the British Transport Police Authority. 
Following Keith Down’s resignation on 6 December 2015, Go-Ahead’s 
Group Financial Controller, Paul Edwards, was appointed as Interim Group 
Finance Director which ensured an orderly transition in the intervening 
period prior to Patrick’s appointment date.
Nomination committee 
objectives set for 2015/16
• Review Board composition and non-executive 
rotation in the context of business needs
• Future orientated Group wide succession 
planning aligned to strategy
• Further development of the leadership and 
talent framework and pipeline
• Development of the diversity initiatives in the bus 
division across the rail division and wider Group
• Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director 
and facilitate his/her induction to the Group
Highlights/progress made 
against 2015/16 objectives
• Appointment of Group Chief Financial Officer
• Review of Board composition and non-executive 
director rotation
• Future orientated Group wide succession 
planning more aligned to strategy
• Further development of the leadership and 
talent framework and pipeline
• Induction of rail representatives into the diversity 
steering group 
Priorities for  
2016/17
• Improve committee effectiveness through best 
practice initiatives 
• Continue focus on ensuring Board and senior 
management succession planning are aligned to 
strategy and culture
• Undertake Board skills assessment and gap 
analysis
• Oversight of leadership and talent initiatives, 
linking to new vision, attitudes and beliefs
• Full integration of the rail division into the 
diversity steering group and forums
More information  
on pages 81 to 83
Nomination committee membership
Andrew Allner Committee Chair
Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director
Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director
Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director
David Brown Group Chief Executive*
Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group 
Company Secretary
* With effect from the start of the 2016/17 financial year, and in accordance with 
best practice, the Group Chief Executive will no longer be a member of the 
nomination committee
Attendance 
Nomination committee report at a glance
Adrian Ewer
Katherine Innes Ker
Andrew Allner
Nick Horler
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 81 Nomination committee report continued
Board composition and skills 
The committee reviews the tenure of individual non-executive directors on 
a regular basis in the context of length of service, experience, independence, 
contribution and skills. This is not only from a current strategy perspective 
but also taking into account potential future strategic needs. This year’s 
review also enabled the Board to confirm that the contributions made by all 
directors continued to be effective and that the Group should support their 
re-election. For Katherine Innes Ker, who was approaching her six-year term 
with the Group in July 2016, there was a more comprehensive review, with 
greater challenge and discussion, before the committee concluded that 
Katherine’s term should be extended beyond six years. 
The nomination committee considers that the Board consists of individuals 
with the right balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge to 
provide strong and effective leadership of the Group. The Board consists of 
the Chairman, three non-executive and two executive directors, who 
together bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal 
attributes and experience. The majority of the Board, excluding the 
Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Time commitments
The time commitments required from the non-executive directors, and their 
other commitments, are also reviewed as part of the year end process. Prior 
to any new commitments being made by directors, agreement is sought 
from the Chairman.
This year, the committee was again satisfied that there are no conflicts of 
interest and that all directors have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities. 
In particular, the committee reviews the time commitments of those 
directors who chair committees or who have roles on other Boards to 
ensure that they have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities to the 
Go-Ahead Board. This is to ensure that they are able to be fully engaged and 
actively involved with the Group’s business throughout the year. 
Committee effectiveness
The committee’s performance was also reviewed during the year through 
the internal Board evaluation facilitated by the Group Company Secretary. 
The review found that the positive trend of improvement had continued, 
which was largely attributable to the quality of information now being 
received by the committee and the related more detailed discussions 
around the areas of succession planning, leadership, talent management 
and diversity. 
Committee purpose and responsibilities
The purpose of the nomination committee is to keep the Board’s 
governance, composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and 
succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to ensure the Group’s arrangements are 
consistent with the highest corporate governance standards. 
During the year, the committee met four times.  Two of these meetings were 
scheduled and two were additional meetings to deal with the departure of 
the former Group Finance Director and the appointment of the new Group 
Chief Financial Officer. 
A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the committee’s terms of reference 
which are reviewed regularly, approved by the Board, and available on the 
Group’s corporate website (www.go-ahead.com) or upon request from the 
Group Company Secretary.
Succession planning and talent management
The annual leadership review is now an embedded process within each of 
our operating companies and the results are consolidated and analysed by 
Group HR. Succession risks, critical roles and scarce skills are identified 
through this process. The talent strategy is reviewed each year to address 
this maturing agenda.
The committee recognises the importance of preparing a pipeline of high 
quality internal talent that are ready for senior management and Board 
positions in a range of roles. During the year, the committee was updated on 
the succession plans for all senior management across the Group, including 
succession risks that were being planned for. Where there had been changes 
to the individuals in key critical roles, or new roles were established, the 
committee was updated on the plans and process for making future 
appointments to these roles.
The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying 
and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the 
organisation. We continue to strengthen our internal retention strategies to 
include career planning, personal development plans, coaching and 
secondments. 
The committee takes an active interest in talent management across the 
Group and this year the committee received more information on how the 
pipeline of talent was being managed and how this worked to support 
succession planning at senior levels. There is now strong evidence to support 
the success of the Group’s talent pool programme introduced four years 
ago, with a good proportion of colleagues who have been through this 
programme having been promoted or taken on broader responsibilities. A 
number of colleagues are also now supporting or continuing to support the 
mobilisation of the Singapore operations, with only a small proportion 
overall having actually left the business. The Group’s talent pool is now the 
first port of call when looking for internal candidates for existing or new 
roles, with new support tools and coaching programmes being developed to 
support the development of others. 
Nomination 
Committee
Board diversity
Developing 
people
Diversity and
 inclusion
Succession 
 planning and talent 
management
82 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 With future plans to further strengthen the Group’s approach to succession 
planning, leadership development and talent management, the committee 
will continue to play an active role, particularly with regard to ensuring that 
initiatives are aligned with strategic planning and corporate culture. 
For further information on our people, see pages 32 to 35. 
Board diversity 
The Board continues to believe that the Board Diversity Policy remains 
appropriate. We have one female non-executive director on the Board, with 
the percentage of female representation currently 17%. While this is below 
the recommendation of Lord Davies, which was that there should be a 
minimum female representation on Boards of 25% by 2015, the Board’s 
view is that this level of female representation is appropriate at this time. This 
is particularly in the context of the comparatively small size of Go-Ahead’s 
Board, which we feel is appropriate, with all the directors participative 
and accountable. 
Our foremost priority however remains to ensure that Go-Ahead continues 
to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most 
appropriate candidates.
The annual Board evaluation process includes an assessment of the Board’s 
diversity including gender, helping the Board to objectively consider its 
composition and effectiveness.
Diversity and inclusion
The nomination committee also oversees the diversity and inclusion 
initiatives across the wider Group. We continue to acknowledge that in the 
transport industry generally there are barriers to attracting, retaining and 
promoting women and some of this is legacy and also cultural. The 
promotion of women to the Board and other senior positions within the 
Group is completely dependent on our ability to attract, develop and 
promote women from within. There has been an increased focus to improve 
gender ratios in all businesses and a Group diversity and inclusion manager 
has recently been appointed to ensure time and focus is given to this 
important topic.
Our diversity and inclusion steering group and forum are now well 
established and working well together. Our forum is supported by 
‘champions’ who each represent our operating companies and sponsor local 
activities and good progress has continued to be made during the year, with 
highlights including: 
• Recruitment fairs and open days to successfully attract women into bus 
driver roles
• Modernised recruitment advertising to be attractive to women and more 
diverse groups
• Increased connections with local schools promoting bus driving as a 
positive career option for boys and girls
Our new diversity steering group, which was created in 2015, has also made 
good progress establishing best practice in policy and equal opportunities. All 
of our operating companies are working with the steering group to establish 
best practice processes and have agreed to complete a peer assessment 
against a common set of standards. This will establish a benchmark for each 
business which they will then continue to work to improve. Training 
resources have been developed by the Group Academy and each operating 
company has committed to delivering a training plan that will include all 
people managers and those involved in recruitment. The focus of the training 
is understanding the implications of the Equality Act and recognising 
unconscious bias.
Recently, representatives from the rail division have joined the diversity 
steering group, which means that the good work we have done in the bus 
division will be extended into the rail division in the next year. 
In preparation for the Gender Pay Gap regulations coming into force we 
have developed a plan that will represent best practice. This will create a 
benchmark for the Group to be able to understand any issues that may 
exist in differences between male and female pay across the Group. Action 
plans will then be created by each operating company to address any 
narrative that we create from the analysis of the data.
Developing people
People are the heart of any business and the Board continues to recognise 
the importance of investment both to develop people to execute their role 
effectively and to grow the talent required for the future. There is a formal 
and maturing agenda that is discussed on a regular basis. The discussion 
ranges across succession planning, talent identification, management and 
development, leadership development, and the resources provided by the 
Group Academy. The Group Academy offers core learning resources to 
everyone in the Group. Commitments communicated in 2016 are that all 
people identified as successors will have a personal development plan; high 
performers will attend a tailored leadership development programme and 
the pipeline of graduates will continue and be extended. The bus graduate 
scheme has been maintained and a new rail scheme has started with five 
new entrants in 2016. It is anticipated that even more graduates will be 
recruited into both schemes in 2017. Group HR focus has been on defining 
a future focused resourcing strategy to identify the critical and scarce skills 
that will be required to deliver our strategic objectives. These skills will come 
from both inside and outside the business. Individual operating companies 
are initiating a wide range of local activities to develop their own talent, 
including establishing their own learning portals which are connected to, and 
supported by, the Group Academy.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 83 Directors’ remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 2 July 2016. This report sets out our policy, as 
approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, how this policy was 
implemented during 2015/16 and how we will apply the policy for the 
forthcoming year 2016/17.
Performance and reward – Group Chief Executive 
At the request of the Group Chief Executive, no annual increase was 
awarded to his base salary from 1 April 2016.
During the year under review, the Group Chief Executive informed the 
committee that he did not wish to be considered for his 2015/16 annual 
performance-related bonus in acknowledgement of the operational issues 
and difficulties that continue to be experienced in GTR, and the direct and 
negative impact this is having on customers. The committee accepted that 
no annual performance-related bonus would be paid to the Group Chief 
Executive for the year ending 2 July 2016. 
The committee considered the extent to which the Long T erm Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) award granted to the Group Chief Executive in October 2013 
should vest. This award was based on the achievement of specific long term 
value creation targets set three years ago which included stretching total 
shareholder return, earnings per share and operating profit targets for each 
of the bus and rail divisions. This award is paid in shares to further align the 
interests of the Group Chief Executive with those of our shareholders. 
Further details of the performance achieved are provided on page 96. 
Appointment and remuneration of 
Group Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Butcher was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 March 
2016. Upon his appointment, the committee reviewed his remuneration, 
taking into account all relevant factors including his experience, the pay level 
of his predecessor and the principles of our remuneration policy. No 
compensation was paid for incentives lost from his previous employer. The 
committee determined that the Group Chief Financial Officer should be 
paid an annual base salary of £370,000 per annum, which was below that of 
his predecessor. He was not eligible to receive a salary increase from 1 April 
2016, his next salary review being on 1 April 2017. 
The committee also determined that the Group Chief Financial Officer 
would not be eligible to receive an LTIP award but would be eligible to 
receive an annual performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016 
and that this would be based solely on the achievement of Group operating 
profit and cashflow targets. This would be pro-rated to reflect his period of 
service, with any award being paid fully in deferred shares to immediately 
align his interests with those of our shareholders. Full details of the 
performance against targets can be found on pages 95 and 96.
Departure of former Group Finance Director
The former Group Finance Director, Keith Down resigned on 6 December 
2015 and continued to receive salary and benefits until that date. In 
accordance with our remuneration policy, he forfeited any entitlement to an 
annual performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016. 
Additionally, Keith’s LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards granted in 
2013 and 2014 lapsed in full on 6 December 2015. 
Single remuneration figure
The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year 
ended 2 July 2016 is shown below: 
2016  
£’000
2015*  
£’000
Group Chief Executive – David Brown 1,311 2,134
Group Chief Financial Officer – Patrick Butcher 269 –
Former Group Finance Director – Keith Down 191 1,246
*  Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2012/13 LTIP award which 
vested in November 2015. See page 95 for further information.
Full details of the remuneration earned by the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Chief Financial Officer and the former Group Finance Director can 
be found in this report.
Annual Statement by the 
Remuneration Committee Chair
84 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration linked to strategy
Our remuneration policy has been structured to support the financial 
objectives and strategic priorities of the Group in a manner which is aligned 
with shareholders’ interests. It encourages achievement of our corporate 
goals through (i) an annual performance-related bonus linked to achieving 
profitable growth and specific strategic targets; and (ii) long term incentives 
that only reward for absolute shareholder value creation and delivery of 
long term earnings growth.
A large proportion of the executive directors’ remuneration is payable in 
shares. Half of the total annual performance related bonus is awarded as 
deferred shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to 
recovery and withholding provisions. Awards under the LTIP are also made 
in shares, further aligning the interest of our executive directors with those 
of our shareholders. Awards granted under the LTIP are now also subject to 
an additional two-year holding period following the vesting of awards. 
Future policy
The Group’s remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at last 
year’s AGM in October 2015 and the current intention is that it will apply 
until the 2018 AGM. As such, we will not be asking shareholders to vote on 
the policy at the 2016 AGM.
Implementation of remuneration policy 2016/17
The committee is not proposing any changes to remuneration policy for the 
financial year 2016/17. However, the committee does have the discretion to 
vary the weighting of and choice of LTIP metrics prior to each award. In 
accordance with best practice, the committee will be consulting with the 
Group’s major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies 
regarding proposed changes to the LTIP’s threshold and maxima EPS metrics 
in response to the revised outlook for GTR and analysts’ repositioning 
their forecasts. 
The outcome of this consultation will be confirmed to the Group’s major 
shareholders and shareholder representative bodies before the 2016 AGM, 
in addition to being disclosed in next year’s annual report.
The committee has also agreed that the Group Chief Executive’s 
shareholding requirement will increase from 150% to 200% of base salary in 
accordance with best practice. While it will not be incorporated into the 
current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is effective 
immediately. 
I was very pleased that, at last year’s AGM, 97.77% and 99.23% of the votes 
cast supported the resolutions to approve our remuneration policy and the 
annual report on remuneration respectively. This indicates support for the 
committee’s focus on implementing the key principles of our executive 
remuneration approach.
We look to shareholders to approve the report at the forthcoming AGM.
Katherine Innes Ker
Remuneration Committee Chair
8 September 2016
Performance in 2015/16
The Group has achieved another year of good financial performance 
and has continued to deliver sustainable returns and growth for its 
shareholders. Key highlights of the year included:
• Successful win of two German rail services contracts expected to 
generate combined revenues of around €1.6bn over the life of 
the contracts
• Successful win of a 25 route five-year bus contract in Singapore 
expected to generate total revenues of around SGD$500m over 
five years
• Maintained sector leading customer satisfaction in regional bus 
operations
• Record year of operating profits from our regional bus division and 
achievement of £100m profit target on an adjusted basis, through 
sector leading margins
• Southeastern delivered a strong trading performance and continued 
to operate at maximum profit share
• London Midland continued its trend of improvement, with strong 
customer satisfaction scores, and is now operating under the new 
direct award contract which was secured during the year
• Shortlisted for the new West Midlands franchise beginning 
October 2017
• The integration last year of Southern and Gatwick Express 
completes the formation of GTR and the largest franchise ever let 
by the government, with about 330 million passenger journeys 
made per year and employing around 6,900 people
• Introduction of new rolling stock to improve services to customers 
as longer, more spacious trains are introduced across the 
GTR franchise
• The interim dividend was increased by 6.5%. The final dividend 
proposed has also been increased by 6.5%
• Net cash of £323.0m, adjusted net debt of £239.3m and an adjusted 
net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.36x below the Group’s target level
Despite good financial performance across the Group during the year, 
one of our greatest challenges has been with our train operating 
company GTR and the operational issues and constraints associated 
with the major Thameslink infrastructure programme. As previously 
reported, additional resources being invested in GTR to support 
service delivery in the current challenging operational and industrial 
relations environments have depressed margins for the year ended       
2 July 2016. The issues we continue to experience mean that we have 
not provided the levels of reliability and services our passengers expect, 
which has caused inconvenience and hardship for our passengers. We 
now no longer expect to recover the profit shortfalls and margins over 
the life of the contract will be lower than originally forecast.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 85
Shareholder information Financial statements Strategic report Governance Directors’ remuneration report at a glance
About this report
This report sets out details of the remuneration policy for our executive and 
non-executive directors, describes the implementation of the approved remuneration 
policy and sets out the remuneration received by the directors for the year ended     
2 July 2016.  No changes have been made other than to reflect changes to salary 
levels and the fact that the policy was formally approved by shareholders at the 2015 
AGM. The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 
8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The Group also follows the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published in September 2014 (the 2014 Code).
For completeness and transparency, this part of the directors’ remuneration report 
includes the remuneration policy in the same form as it was approved by shareholders 
at the 2015 AGM (set out on pages 88 to 93) and intended to operate until the 2018 
AGM unless any significant changes to the policy are proposed that require 
shareholder approval prior to this date. The Annual Statement by the Remuneration 
Committee Chair (set out on pages 84 and 85) and the annual report on 
remuneration (set out on pages 94 to 103) will be subject to an advisory vote at 
the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration committee 
objectives set for 2015/16
• Ensure that the Group’s remuneration policy for 
the departure of executive directors is applied 
for the departing Group Finance Director
• Ensure that the Group’s recruitment 
remuneration policy is taken into account when 
appointing the new Group Chief Financial Officer
• Set targets and review outcomes for 
performance-related remuneration
• Continue to remain abreast of best practice 
and market developments in remuneration 
and reporting
• Monitor the ongoing balance between long term 
and short term incentives to ensure that they 
remain appropriately aligned to the Group’s 
strategic objectives
• Provide ongoing training and support for 
committee members
Highlights/progress made 
against 2015/16 objectives
• Approved leaving terms for the former Group 
Finance Director and recruitment terms for 
the new Group Chief Financial Officer in 
accordance with policy
• Set targets and reviewed outcomes for 
performance-related remuneration, taking 
into account strategic objectives, risk policies 
and systems
• Assessed performance against targets for the 
annual performance-related bonus 2015/16 and 
accepted the Group Chief Executive’s request 
not to be considered for an annual performance-
related bonus 2015/16 or April 2016 annual 
salary increase
• Reviewed remuneration policy in the context of 
best practice and remained abreast of emerging 
developments such as the work of the 
Investment Association’s Executive Remuneration 
Working Group
• Reviewed the overall remuneration policy for 
senior management and the pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
• Reviewed performance of the committee and its 
external advisors
Priorities  
for 2016/17
• Set targets and review outcomes for 
performance-related remuneration, taking 
into account strategic objectives, risk policies 
and systems
• Continue to review remuneration policy in 
the context of best practice and emerging 
developments
• Ensure regular dialogue with major shareholders 
and shareholder advisory bodies and take into 
account their views when formulating policy and 
making decisions
• Ensure compliance with all regulatory 
requirements, including overseeing compliance 
with the Equal Pay Bill and gender pay 
gap reporting
• Review the overall remuneration policy for 
senior management and the pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
• Review performance of the committee and its 
external advisors
More information 
on pages 94-103
Attendance 
Andrew Allner
Katherine Innes Ker
Nick Horler
Adrian Ewer
Committee members and secretary
Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chair
Andrew Allner Chairman
Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director
Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director
Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary
86 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 At a glance – application of the policy in the year ahead
Policy element
David Brown 
Group Chief Executive
Patrick Butcher 
Group Chief Financial Officer
Base salary from 1 April 2016 £541,800 £370,000
% increase from prior year 0% n/a
Pension Does not receive any form of pension provision Receives a non-pensionable cash supplement 
of 13% of base salary
Performance-related bonus Up to 150% of base salary
Performance-related bonus metrics Adjusted Group operating profit (65%)
Group cashflow (10%)
Strategic KPIs (25%)
Payment for threshold performance 0% 0%
Deferred share bonus plan 50% of the performance-related bonus is deferred for three years in Go-Ahead shares
LTIP 150% of base salary 100% of base salary
LTIP metrics Compound annual growth in adjusted EPS (40%)
Relative TSR (40%)
Customer satisfaction ratings (20%)
Payment for threshold performance For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25%
Malus and clawback The performance-related bonus and LTIP are both subject to recovery (clawback) and withholding 
(malus) provisions for three years following the award. Malus applies to the period prior to vesting 
for both the performance-related bonus and LTIP . Clawback applies to the cash and deferred shares 
awarded under the performance-related bonus for a period of three years from the date the cash 
payment is made and the date the share award is granted, and to the LTIP for three years following 
the date on which an award vests.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained (other than to pay tax and NICs due on receipt 
of the shares) for two further years.
Dividends on vested awards Participants are eligible for dividend equivalents on awards granted under the deferred share bonus 
plan or LTIP
Shareholding requirement 150% of base salary
*
100% of base salary
* The Group Chief Executive’s shareholding requirement will increase from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice. While it will not be incorporated into the 
current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is immediately effective.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 87 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report
Policy overview
The Group’s remuneration policy was approved at the 2015 AGM and is 
effective until the 2018 AGM. The key principles of the policy are as follows: 
• Remuneration should be designed to promote the long term success 
of the Group and the creation of shareholder value
• The policy should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and 
performance-related, cash and share-based and immediate and 
deferred remuneration
• Performance related elements of remuneration should be relevant, 
transparent, stretching and rigorously applied
• Remuneration incentives should be compatible with risk policies 
and systems
• Remuneration should be judged relative to other companies but without 
the corresponding improvement in corporate and individual performance, 
should avoid paying more than necessary
• Due regard should be given to pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group
The policy table that follows provides detail on each key element of 
remuneration, including the maximum potential value of each element, a 
brief summary of how it works and details of any performance metrics.
Remuneration policy table for executive directors
Element & 
maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary • Salary is the core 
reward for the role 
and enables the 
Group to recruit and 
retain individuals of 
the calibre required to 
deliver its strategic 
objectives and lead its 
management team, 
without paying more 
than is necessary
• Base salary also 
reflects the individual’s 
skills, expertise, 
experience and role 
within the Group
• Paid monthly in cash
• In determining base salaries, the 
committee considers: 
 – Pay levels at companies of a 
similar size and complexity 
in the FTSE 250 
 – External market conditions
 – Pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group 
 – Individual performance, 
skills, experience in post 
and potential
• Salaries are normally reviewed 
annually with changes taking 
effect from 1 April each year
• The committee may also 
review salaries on an ad hoc 
basis if an individual is 
promoted and/or there is an 
increase in their responsibilities
• Annual salary increases for 
executive directors will not 
normally exceed the 
average increase awarded 
to other UK based 
employees
• However, larger increases 
may be awarded in certain 
circumstances including but 
not limited to:
 – Increase in scope of 
responsibilities of 
the role
 – T o apply salary 
progression for a newly 
appointed director
 – Where a director’s 
salary has fallen 
significantly below 
market position
n/a
Performance-
related bonus
• Focuses on the key 
priorities for the 
coming year
• Deferral of half of 
bonus into Group 
shares aligns executive 
directors’ interests 
with those 
of shareholders
• Annual, non-pensionable 
payments made after the AGM
• Half of any bonus is paid in 
cash following the AGM and 
half is paid in shares deferred 
for a period of three years
• Based on the achievement of 
specific financial and non 
financial objectives
• Subject to recovery and 
withholding provisions for three 
years following the award
• Maximum of 150% of salary • Performance metrics will 
normally include Group profit, 
cash and individual strategic goals 
with profitability accounting for at 
least half of the opportunity
• A quality of earnings review and 
health and safety target 
thresholds also apply to the 
full bonus
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Element & 
maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Long term 
incentive plan 
(LTIP)
• Aligned to the 
strategic objectives of 
the Group to deliver 
long term returns 
to shareholders
• Annual grant of performance 
shares that vest three 
years after grant (subject to the 
satisfaction of 
performance conditions)
• Awards granted from 2015 
must be retained (other than 
to pay tax or NICs due on 
receipt of the shares) for two 
further years
• Subject to recovery and 
withholding provisions for three 
years following vesting
• Maximum of 150% of salary 
for Group Chief Executive 
and 100% of salary for 
other executive directors
• Exceptional 
circumstances maximum 
(e.g. on recruitment) of 
200% of salary
• Performance measured over 
three financial years
• Performance metrics will include 
compound annual growth in 
adjusted EPS and relative TSR 
with each accounting for at least 
25% of the award
• For the 2015 awards adjusted 
EPS would have a 40% weighting, 
relative TSR would have a 40% 
weighting and customer 
satisfaction ratings in our bus and 
rail divisions will each have a 
10% weighting
• For the EPS and TSR measures 
not more than 25% of the 
award may vest at threshold 
performance
• The committee has the 
discretion to vary the weighting 
of and choice of metrics including 
the comparator groups prior to 
each award. However, it would 
consult with shareholders before 
introducing significantly different 
metrics
Pension 
allowance
• Provides a cash 
alternative to pension 
contributions in line 
with market practice
• Monthly, non pensionable 
payment, paid in cash
• A cash allowance of up to 
15% of salary may be 
provided
1
n/a
Other 
benefits
• Ensures package is 
competitive with 
market practice and 
employees have a 
minimum level of 
insured benefits
• The main benefits include 
family private healthcare, death 
in service and life assurance 
cover (4x base salary), free 
travel on the Group’s services 
and professional membership 
subscriptions
• Benefits are intended to be 
market competitive but are 
not subject to a maximum 
as the cost of providing the 
insured benefits is set by 
third party providers and 
can vary from year to year
n/a
All employee 
share plans
• Executive directors are 
eligible to participate 
in HMRC approved all 
employee schemes 
which encourage 
share ownership
• Executive directors may 
participate in these plans in line 
with HMRC guidelines 
currently prevailing (where 
relevant), on the same basis as 
other eligible employees
• Participation levels operate 
in accordance with HMRC 
limits as amended from 
time to time
n/a
Share 
ownership
• T o align the financial 
interests of the 
executive directors 
with those of 
shareholders
• Executive directors are 
required to retain 50% of the 
post tax gain on vested LTIP 
and deferred share awards until 
such time as the Group Chief 
Executive has achieved a 
holding of 150% of salary and 
other executive directors have 
achieved 100% of salary
• 150% of salary holding for 
the Group Chief Executive
2
 
and 100% of salary holding 
for other executive 
directors
n/a
1. The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group. The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a cash allowance of 13% 
of salary.
2.  The Group Chief Executive’s share ownership guidelines will increase from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice. While it will not be incorporated into the 
current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is immediately effective.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 89 Considerations when determining remuneration policy
The remuneration committee considers shareholder feedback received and 
guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally when 
reviewing remuneration policy, in addition to best practice and the 
2014 Code.
A substantial proportion of the executive directors’ pay is performance-
related, with half of the annual bonus also being subject to deferral into the 
Group’s shares. A broad range of financial and non-financial targets are 
included in our incentive structure and recovery and withholding provisions 
apply to both the annual performance-related bonus and LTIP from 2015/16. 
In addition, awards granted under the new LTIP will be subject to an 
additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards.
Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures 
that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy. 
The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social 
and governance matters seriously and to consider the long term implications 
of their decision making. Accordingly, in line with the Investment Association 
Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked a 
proportion of the annual bonus performance-related to the achievement of 
safety and good governance objectives.
In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the 
remuneration packages offered to employees across the Group. As a point 
of principle, salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration 
are benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the 
markets in which we operate.
As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across the 
businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and geographical 
location. When considering annual salary increases, the committee reviews 
the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally, as it 
does for any other changes to remuneration policy being considered.
 The Group did not formally consult with employees when drawing up the 
directors’ remuneration policy. However, the Group considers any informal 
feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
Committee discretions
The committee operates the Group’s variable incentive plans according to 
their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant. 
T o ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the committee will 
apply certain operational discretions. These include the following:
• Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis
• Determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payment
• Determining the quantum of awards and/or payments (within the limits 
set out in the policy table on pages 88 and 89)
• Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of 
performance
• Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances 
(e.g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and 
special dividends)
• Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying 
the appropriate treatment
• Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, 
and setting targets for the annual performance-related bonus and LTIP 
from year to year
If an event occurs which results in the annual performance-related bonus or 
LTIP performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no longer 
appropriate (e.g. a material acquisition or divestment), the committee will 
have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and/or targets and alter 
weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially 
less difficult to satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised at 
the date of this report, as detailed on pages 98 and 99, remain eligible for 
vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Consistency with remuneration for the wider Group
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based 
on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain 
high-calibre talent and that reward should support the delivery of business 
strategy. The committee reviews the remuneration for those employees 
immediately below the executive directors to ensure that this incentivises 
the delivery of both strategy and business objectives.
Through our devolved structure, local management are then empowered to 
create tailored remuneration packages on an individual business-by-business 
basis. As a result, the components and levels of remuneration for different 
employees will differ from the policy for executive directors as set out 
above. Employees may receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary 
according to the local business and market practice. The maximum provision 
and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and 
responsibility of the role.
Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only 
while participation in the deferred share bonus plan is limited to executive 
directors and senior management.
It is an important part of Go-Ahead’s values that all colleagues, not just 
management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Group. 
All employees, with at least six months’ continuous service, therefore have 
the opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive Plan and Save As Y ou 
Earn schemes.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
90 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Performance measure selection
With the exception of base salary, benefits, pension allowance and participation in all employee share plans, all other elements of the remuneration 
packages of the executive directors are linked to performance.
In choosing the performance metrics and targets we have sought to provide a strong and demonstrable link between management incentives and the 
Group’s strategic objectives. We have also set a performance based framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Group’s scale and unique 
structure. This enables the executive directors and senior managers to share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive 
benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking. It also aligns their interests with those of our shareholders.
The choice of performance measures for the annual performance-related bonus is based on a mixture of financial, non financial, personal and strategic 
targets, with a clear alignment to the Group’s short and long term strategic objectives.
A significant proportion of executive directors’ potential remuneration is performance-related. This comprises annual bonuses under the performance-
related bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP .  The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the 
executive directors split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios. The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation 
or dividends.
Recruitment remuneration
On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek to align 
the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the Group’s 
remuneration policy as set out on pages 88 and 89. It would aim not to pay 
more than necessary to secure the right candidate and the package would 
take into account the experience and calibre of the individual concerned. 
The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in 
accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at 
the time of appointment.
Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the 
Group may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate and may provide tax 
equalisation and assistance with reasonable legal fees.
Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for 
payments under incentive plans joined and/or contractual arrangements 
entered into before joining the Board. However the committee will have 
regard to best practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary to 
compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their previous 
employers. The level and timing of such compensation will normally seek to 
reflect or take account of the term and performance conditions of the 
payments or awards forgone on a like for like basis.
Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or options 
over Group shares but cash and/or time vested payments may be made 
where the committee believes these would offer better value for money for 
shareholders. Existing arrangements will be used where possible, however, 
the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility 
provided under the Listing Rules without prior shareholder approval. The 
committee is sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and 
will endeavour to take cost effective approaches.
During the year, the recruitment remuneration policy was followed for the 
appointment of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer. There were no 
relocation costs or compensation paid for incentives lost from his 
previous employer.
Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Fixed LTIP Bonus
£419
£1,344
£789
Fixed
Target
Max
Fixed LTIP Bonus
£545
£2,171
£1,155
Fixed
Target
Max
Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2016/17 financial year (£’000)
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below:
Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2016, benefits as received in 2015/16 and, for the Group Chief Financial Officer only, the value of his 
pension allowance.
T arget: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual performance-related bonus award (75% of base salary) plus threshold vesting under the 
LTIP awards (37.5% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 25% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer).
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual performance-related bonus award (150% of base salary) plus full vesting of LTIP awards 
(150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer).
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 91 Loss of office payments
The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis. However, 
the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply:
Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy; disability; death or change of ownership
Other leavers  
(e.g. resignation/misconduct)
Salary and contractual benefits Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any 
contractual benefits for the notice period including any accrued or 
untaken holiday
Paid to date of termination, 
including pay for any accrued 
but untaken holiday
Performance-related 
bonus (cash)
Bonus awarded (subject to satisfaction of performance targets) for the 
relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of employment 
to the date of cessation of employment
No award for year of 
termination
Performance-related bonus 
(deferred shares)
Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment Awards lapse in full on cessation 
of employment
Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the remuneration 
committee determines the award should vest on the date of cessation 
of employment
The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of 
performance conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect 
time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment although the 
committee has discretion to waive pro-rating where it believes it would be 
appropriate to do so
Awards lapse in full on cessation 
of employment
Service agreements of executive directors
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer entered 
into a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 April 2011 
and 14 March 2016 respectively. The term of each service agreement is 
undefined and is terminable by either the Group on one year’s notice or by 
the executive director on six months’ notice. The directors’ service 
agreements are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office.
External appointments
In accordance with their service agreements, the executive directors are able 
to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees 
paid for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board. The 
Group Chief Executive is a non-executive director of ATOC Limited and Rail 
Delivery Group Limited. He does not receive any fees in relation to 
these roles. The Group Chief Financial Officer does not have any 
external appointments.
The former Group Finance Director, Keith Down, is a non-executive director 
of T opps Tiles plc and received fees of £18,840 for the period from 28 June 
2015 to 6 December 2015 when he resigned from the Board 
(2014: £17,409).
Departure of executive directors
Executive directors’ service agreements contain a provision, exercisable at 
the discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early 
termination of the agreement. Such payments are limited to base salary plus 
pension allowance and other benefits (such as family private healthcare and 
life assurance cover), but would not automatically include entitlement to 
bonus or share awards.
The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services. There are no 
provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement 
terms. Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive 
directors are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event 
of early termination of a service agreement. The committee believes that the 
agreements provide appropriate protection of the interests of shareholders 
when negotiating a termination, at which time the committee would take 
into account the departing director’s duty to mitigate his/her loss when 
determining the amount of any compensation.
During the year, this policy was applied for the departure of the former 
Group Finance Director. Salary, pension allowance and other benefits only 
were paid, with no entitlement to bonus or share awards for the year ended 
2 July 2016. Deferred bonus shares and LTIPs that were unvested on 
cessation of employment also lapsed. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
92 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Policy table for Chairman and non-executive directors
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is set out in the table below. Non-executive directors are not involved in 
any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive 
directors is a fixed annual fee commensurate with 
the time each director is expected to spend on the 
Group’s affairs and with the responsibility assumed as 
director of a listed company
Fees are set at a level to attract and retain individuals 
with appropriate expertise to complement the 
Group’s strategy
The remuneration of the non-executive directors 
takes the form solely of fees, which are set annually 
by the Board
The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as 
set out in the Group’s articles of association 
(currently aggregate fees of £500,000 for all 
non-executive directors)
Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with 
reference to comparable listed companies in 
the FTSE 250
Additional fees  
payable 
for duties
Additional fees may be paid to non-executive 
directors who are chair of a Board committee and/
or who occupy the role of senior independent 
director to reflect the additional responsibility and 
time commitment required
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive 
performance-related remuneration or pension 
entitlements or to participate in share 
option schemes
Non-executive directors may also be provided with 
limited travel, hospitality and accommodation expenses
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind nor do they participate in the Group’s short and long term incentive 
arrangements or in its pension scheme.
Letters of appointment for Chairman and non-executive directors
Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months. The terms of appointment contain no entitlement 
to compensation for early termination. The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office during normal business hours 
and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below:
Director Date of service agreement
Notice period  
from the Group
Notice period  
from the director
Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months
Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months
Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months
Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months
Retirement and re-election of directors
In accordance with the Group’s articles of association and the provisions of the 2014 Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at 
each AGM. Accordingly, all directors will be submitting themselves for re-election with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer, who 
will offer himself for election for the first time.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 93 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
The remuneration committee presents the annual report on remuneration 
which, together with the annual statement from the Remuneration 
Committee Chair, will be put to shareholders as an advisory vote at the 
AGM to be held on 3 November 2016.
Remuneration committee report
All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
The committee met seven times during the year.  Four of these meetings 
were scheduled, with three additional meetings to discuss the remuneration 
of the new Group Chief Financial Officer and remuneration policy more 
generally. Attendance at the committee meetings is set out on page 59.
Role of the committee
The committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
• Develop the remuneration policy for the executive directors, including the 
balance between fixed and performance-related, cash and share-based, 
immediate and deferred remuneration
• Review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s 
remuneration policy
• Regularly review the design and targets for performance-related pay 
arrangements and approve the total annual payments and awards
• Ensure adherence to the policy set for executive directors’ service 
agreements, including recruitment and compensation payment policies
• Recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for 
senior management within the Group
• Determine the fees of the Chairman
The members of the committee have no personal interests in the matters 
to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no 
conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships. Committee members 
did not attend meetings where matters associated with their own 
remuneration were considered.
During the year, the committee’s recommendations were all accepted 
unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
Terms of reference
The committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually and 
approved by the Board. They are available on our corporate website at 
www.go-ahead.com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
External advisors to the committee
New Bridge Street (NBS) (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of 
Aon plc) act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee. The 
advisor was selected through a thorough process led by the Remuneration 
Committee Chair and was appointed by the committee. Neither 
Aon Hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc provided any other services to 
the Group during the year and therefore the committee was satisfied that it 
provided objective and independent advice. NBS is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct. 
The fees payable to NBS for advice throughout the year were £38,816 
(2015: £20,778).
Statement of voting at general meeting
At last year’s AGM (22 October 2015) the directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Votes for and 
discretionary Votes against T otal votes Withheld
Remuneration report 23,971,292
99.23%
185,563
0.77%
24,156,855
100%
3,410,784
Remuneration policy 21,842,550
97.77%
497,285
2.23%
22,339,835
100%
5,227,804
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015/16
Executive directors’ annual base salary (audited)
Base salary levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2017 when they will be reviewed again:
Executive directors
From  
1 April 2016
From  
1 April 2015
%  
Increase
Group Chief Executive, David Brown £541,800
1
£541,800 0
Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher £370,000
2
n/a n/a
1. David Brown has, at his own request, not received an increase this year.
2. Patrick Butcher was appointed on 14 March 2016. His first review following his appointment will be April 2017.
94 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive directors’ remuneration (audited)
The below table summarises all remuneration that was earned by each executive director during the year and computes a single total remuneration figure 
for the year.  The value of the performance-related bonus reflects what was earned in respect of the year but will be paid out shortly after the AGM in 
November 2016. Similarly the value of the LTIP reflects the award granted in 2013 which will vest in November 2016 as a result of the performance through 
the three year period ended at the completion of our financial year on 2 July 2016. The LTIP value in the below table is based on the average market share 
price in the last quarter of 2015/16 of £24.54. This value has been estimated as the award will not actually vest until shortly after the 2016 AGM. The closing 
share price on 2 July 2016 was £19.78 which would result in a lower LTIP value than that stated in the table below.
The remuneration committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair 
and appropriate. If circumstances warrant it, the committee may adjust the final payment or vesting downwards. The remuneration for the Group Chief 
Executive reflects his request not to be considered for the 2015/16 annual performance-related bonus award.
Salary 
£’000
T axable 
benefits
1
£’000
Short term incentives  
(Performance-related 
bonuses
2
)
Long term 
incentives 
LTIP
3
£’000
Pension 
allowance
4
£’000
Other 
remuneration
5
£’000
Single total 
remuneration 
figure 
£’000
Cash bonus
2
£’000
Deferred 
share 
bonus
2
£’000
Executive directors
Group Chief Executive, David Brown 2016 542 3 – – 744 – 22 1,311
2015 535 3 279 279 1,038 – – 2,134
*
Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher 2016 112 1 – 141 – 15 – 269
2015 – – – – – – – –
Former executive director
Former Group Finance Director, Keith Down 2016 155 1 – – – 21 14 191
2015 351 2 183 – 664 46 – 1,246
*
*  
Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2012/13 LTIP award which vested in November 2015. For the Group Chief Executive and the former Group Finance 
Director this was £942,053 (2015 estimation: £970,823) and £602,911 (2015 estimation: £621,324) respectively based on the share price as at 5 November 2015 of £25.016. 
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment was as disclosed last year being £96,216 for the Group Chief Executive and £61,578 for the former 
Group Finance Director.
1. Taxable benefits
The taxable benefit for the executive directors comprises family healthcare membership.
2. Cash bonus and deferred share bonus (performance-related bonus) Group Chief Financial Officer only
The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set for 
the Group Chief Financial Officer from 14 March 2016, the date he joined the Board:
Metric Performance measure
Weighting 
(percentage of 
maximum) Achieved
Actual payout 
(percentage of 
maximum)
Actual payout 
(percentage of 
salary)
Adjusted Group operating profit (AGOP) Actual 2015/16 AGOP 87% 96.1% 83.6% 125.4%
Group cashflow Net debt after adding  
back restricted cash
13% 0.0% 0% 0%
T otal 100% 96.1% 83.6% 125.4%
The Group Chief Financial Officer was awarded an overall bonus of 125.4% of pro-rata salary based on AGOP and cashflow targets only. All of this bonus is 
payable in deferred shares to be held for a period of three years to immediately align his interests with those of shareholders and is subject to clawback 
provisions.
The former Group Finance Director did not receive any annual performance-related bonus on account of his cessation of employment on                          
6 December 2015.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 95 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Adjusted Group operating profit (AGOP)
The AGOP target for the 2015/16 financial year was as shown below, with payout on a sliding scale from the 2014/15 AGOP:
Measure T arget Payout (percentage of maximum)
AGOP 2015/16 AGOP of £137.7m in 2014/15 0%
AGOP budget of £158.2m in 2015/16 87%
Actual AGOP for the year ended 2 July 2016 was £157.4m, resulting in a pro-rated payout of 83.6% of the maximum 87% (125.4% of salary) for the Group 
Chief Financial Officer. 
Cashflow
For Group cashflow (defined as net debt after adding back restricted cash), the target for the 2015/16 financial year was £166.0m. Actual Group cashflow 
was £239.3m (2015: £244.7m) resulting in no payout for this element of bonus.
Health and safety target threshold
The annual performance-related bonus includes an underpin that enables the committee to use its discretion to scale back the bonus earned should there 
be a catastrophic event or a deterioration in health and safety performance. The committee concluded that payment of the annual performance-related 
bonus was appropriate in light of the Group’s health and safety performance in the year. 
Recovery and holding provisions
The annual performance-related bonus is subject to recovery and holding provisions for three years following vesting.
3. Vesting of 2013/14 LTIP award – Group Chief Executive only
The table below summarises the performance conditions for the Group Chief Executive’s 2013/14 LTIP award and the actual performance achieved. This 
award was subject to performance conditions measured over three financial years ending with the 2015/16 financial period.
As shown below, the adjusted EPS growth target (25% weighting) and relative TSR target (25% weighting) were fully achieved. For the bus division, the profit 
target (25% weighting), which was to continue to organically grow bus division profits to £100m by 2015/16, was also fully achieved.
For the rail division, 15% of the profit target (25% weighting) was achieved on the basis of the performance on London Midland and Southeastern having 
been excellent, with both franchises being extended and generating the maximum possible profit under their direct awards. Full payout of this element was 
not achieved as the GTR margins over the life of the contract will be lower than originally forecast.
Payout  
(% of each element)
Compound annual  
growth in adjusted EPS
Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 
(excluding certain sectors)
Bus division profit 
in 2015/16
Rail division profit 
in 2015/16
Weighting (% of total award) – 25% 25% 25% 25%
Below threshold 0% Less than RPI + 2% p.a. Below median – –
Threshold 25% RPI + 2% p.a. Median – –
Between threshold  
and maximum
Between  
25% and 100%
Between RPI + 2% p.a. and 
RPI + 8%p.a.
Between median and upper 
quartile
– –
Maximum 100% RPI + 8% p.a. Upper quartile – –
Performance achieved Adjusted EPS of 220.5p. 
From a base of 139.6p this 
is equivalent to growth of 
RPI + 14.65% p.a.
26th out of 122 companies See commentary above
Actual % vesting 90% 25% 25% 25% 15%
The value of the Group Chief Executive’s LTIP award is shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 95. This includes the value of the long 
term incentive shares vesting which amounted to £672,764 based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2015/16 of £24.54. This value has 
been estimated as the award will not actually vest until shortly after the 2016 AGM. The closing share price on 2 July 2016 was £19.78 which would result in 
a lower LTIP value at vesting. The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment is also payable equating to £70,821.
96 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4. Pension allowance
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary. The Group Chief Executive does not receive any 
form of pension provision from the Group.
5. Other remuneration
The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2012/13 deferred share bonus award which vested in November 2015 following the 
end of the three year deferral period.
2015/16 LTIP awards granted during the year ended 2 July 2016 (audited)
As reported in the annual report last year, an LTIP award was granted to the Group Chief Executive during the year ended 2 July 2016. This was structured 
as a nil-cost option, which is exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2015/16 financial period 
and ending with the 2017/18 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. Vested awards are then subject to a further two year 
holding period other than for sales to settle any tax or NIC liability on exercise of the awards. The 2015/16 grant policy was to grant awards with a face 
value of 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive only as follows:
Executive director Basis of award granted
Share price at grant 
date
Number of shares over 
which award was 
granted 
1
Face value of award
2 
(£'000)
% of award which vests 
as threshold
Vesting determined by 
performance over
David Brown 150% of salary £25.46 32,618 830 10% for EPS, 25% 
for TSR and 10% for 
each customer 
element
Three financial years 
ending on 1 July 
2018 
1. The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of £24.58, this being the average of the middle market quotations during the 
period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the plan rules.
2. The face value of the award has been calculated on a share price of £25.46. This was the share price on 4 November 2015, the date of grant. 
Following consultation with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding changes to our remuneration policy for the 2015/16 
financial year, which included the LTIP performance targets, the performance conditions attaching to the 2015/16 LTIP awards were as follows:
EPS payout (% of 
element)
Compound annual 
growth in adjusted 
EPS
Payout (% of TSR 
element)
Relative TSR vs 
FTSE 250 
(excluding certain 
sectors)
Payout (% of each 
customer element)
Rail customer 
service target 
Bus customer 
service target
Weighting (% of total award) – 40% – 40% – 10% 10%
Below threshold 0% Less than RPI + 
5% p.a.
0% Below median 0% Less than 78% Less than 90%
Threshold 10% RPI + 5% p.a. 25% Median 10% 78% 90%
Between threshold  
and maximum
Between 10% 
and 100%
Between RPI + 
5% p.a. and RPI 
+ 13% p.a.
Between 25% 
and 100%
Between 
median and 
upper quartile
Between 10% 
and 100%
Between 78% 
and 82%
Between 90% 
and 93%
Maximum 100% RPI + 13% p.a. 100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93%
The customer satisfaction targets will be as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus (formerly Passenger Focus) and published in 
the annual report. This is a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead. It is a strategic priority for the Group to provide high-quality service and 
customer satisfaction is a critical measure of our performance. This influences our ability to retain franchises and to win new ones. Ensuring management is 
focused on this strategic measure is critically important as a driver of long term shareholder value. 
There is an additional profit threshold for the customer service target which is that adjusted EPS growth over the three year period must be greater than RPI 
+ 5% before any of the customer service element of award can vest. 
The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies. Awards will continue to 
vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 97 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)
The committee believes that the shareholding requirements for executives play an important role in the alignment of the interests of executives and 
shareholders and help to incentivise executives to deliver sustainable long term performance.
From the 2015/16 financial year, the Group Chief Executive’s guideline was 150% of salary, which had increased from 100% previously, while the Group Chief 
Financial Officer’s guideline was 100% of salary. Until they reach these levels, the executive directors are expected to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on 
vested LTIP and deferred share awards. From the 2016/17 financial year, the committee has agreed that the Group Chief Executive’s share ownership 
guidelines will increase to 200% in accordance with best practice. LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained (other than to pay tax and NICs due on 
receipt of shares) for a further two years. 
Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests for the period ending 2 July 2016 are set out in the table below. 
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 46,261 shares equating to 169% of base salary (based on the closing share price on 2 July 2016) and 
therefore meets the shareholding requirement. The Group Chief Financial Officer beneficially held 1,866 shares, which he had purchased shortly after joining 
the Group, equating to 10% of base salary and therefore does not meet the shareholding requirement yet. 
Executive director David Brown
8
Patrick Butcher
Ordinary shares
1
28 June 2015 or date of appointment if later 21,677 0
2 July 2016 46,261
2
1,886
Shareholding requirement (% of basic salary) 150% 100%
Current shareholding as at 2 July 2016 (% of basic salary)
3
169% 10%
Shareholding requirement met Yes No
Share options
4
Without performance conditions Sharesave
5
197 0
With deferral conditions Unvested deferred share bonus awards
6
31,364 0
With performance conditions Unvested LTIP awards
6
53,953 0
Vested but unexercised share awards
7
27,415 0
Shareholding when 2013 DSBP and 2012/13 LTIP awards vest in November 2016 (% of basic salary) 227% 10%
1. Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the directors’ personal holdings and those of their spouses. They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are 
held in trust under the Group’s Share Incentive Plan.
2. During the year, David Brown’s beneficial shareholding increased by 24,584 ordinary shares. This comprised of 4,590 and 19,923 ordinary shares acquired through the post-tax 
gain on the 2012/13 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards respectively which vested in November 2015. Additionally, 71 shares were purchased under the Group’s Share 
Incentive Plan during the period 28 June 2015 and 2 July 2016. For further details on the vesting of the 2012/13 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards, please see page 99.
3. Shareholding as a % of salary includes only ordinary shares. Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included. Shareholding is based on the closing share price 
on 2 July 2016.
4. Deferred share bonus plan and LTIP awards are structured as nil cost options.
5. Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance condition as per HMRC Regulations.
6. Excludes deferred share bonus plan shares and LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2016 for the year ended 2 July 2016. The value of deferred share awards 
granted in respect of the year ended 2 July 2016 is shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 95.
7. Relates to the 2013/14 LTIP award which has vested in respect of the year ended 2 July 2016 and which will be exercised shortly after the AGM, in November 2016. The value 
of the 2013/14 LTIP award is shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 95. 
8. In the period 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016, David Brown’s ordinary shareholding increased from 46,261 to 46,277 as a result of shares purchased under the Group’s 
Share Incentive Plan. There have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the executive directors between 2 July 2016 and the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
9. Keith Down beneficially owned 13,322 as at 28 June 2015 and 13,347 ordinary shares as at 6 December 2015 (the date he resigned as director).
Following the vesting of the 2013/14 LTIP award and the 2013/14 deferred share award which will take place in November 2016, the Group Chief 
Executive’s shareholding will increase to 227% of salary.
98 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive directors’ interests in outstanding share awards and options (audited)
The table below sets out details of the executive directors’ outstanding share awards (which will vest in future years subject to performance conditions and/
or continued service). The Group Chief Financial Officer joined the Group on 14 March 2016 and so had no interests in share awards and options during 
the year ended 2 July 2016.
Group Chief Executive, David Brown
Plan Date of grant
Mid-market 
price on date 
of grant Option price
Balance at 27 
June 2015
Granted in 
year
Vested in 
2014/15 but 
exercised 
during year
Lapsed in 
year
Balance at 2 
July 2016
Awards vested at 2 July 2016 
but not yet exercised
1
Balance  
post exercise Vested Lapsed
Sharesave
2
25.03.14 – 17.34 103 – – – 103 – – 103
 22.03.16 – 19.11 – 94 – – 94 – – 94
            
Deferred 
share 
bonus plan
13.11.12 12.35 – 8,661 – 8,661
2
 – – – – – 
 30.10.13 16.84 – 4,432 – – – 4,432 – – 4,432
 05.11.14 25.03 – 15,601 – – – 15,601 – – 15,601 
 29.10.15 24.13 – – 11,331 – – 11,331 – – 11,331 
            
LTIP 05.11.12 13.06 – 37,658 – 37,658
4
 – – – – –
 30.10.13 16.84 – 30,462 – – – 30,462 27,415  3,047 – 
 05.11.14 25.03 – 21,335 – – – 21,335 – – 21,335 
 04.11.15 25.46 – – 32,618 – – 32,618 – – 32,618 
T otal   118,252 44,043 46,319 –  115,976 27,415 3,047 85,514
Former Group Finance Director, Keith Down
5
Plan Date of grant
Mid-market 
price on date 
of grant Option price
Balance at 27 
June 2015
Granted in 
year
Vested in 
2014/15 but 
exercised 
during year
Lapsed in 
year
Balance at 2 
July 2016
Awards vested at 2 July 2016 
but not yet exercised
1
Balance  
post exercise Vested Lapsed
Sharesave
2
25.03.14 – 17.34 103 – – 103 – – – –
            
Deferred 
share 
bonus plan
13.11.12 12.35 – 5,543 – 5,543
3
 – – – – – 
 30.10.13 16.84 – 2,836 – – 2,836 – – – – 
 05.11.14 25.03 – 9,990 – – 9,990 – – – – 
            
LTIP 05.11.12 13.06 – 24,101 – 24,101
4
 – – – – –
 30.10.13 16.84 – 19,496 – – 19,496 – – – – 
 05.11.14 25.03 – 13,661 – – 13,661 – – – – 
T otal    75,730  – 29,644  46,086 – – – –
1. Relates to the 2013/14 LTIP award which has vested in respect of performance for the year ended 2 July 2016 and will be exercised shortly after the 2016 AGM in 
November 2016.
2. Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance condition as per HMRC Regulations.
3. The 2012/13 deferred share bonus award was exercised on 13 November 2015 with a share price of £25.57. David Brown and Keith Down’s gain on their awards was 
therefore £221,462 and £141,735 respectively.
4. The 2012/13 LTIP award was exercised on 5 November 2015 with a share price of £25.016. David Brown and Keith Down’s gain on their awards was therefore £942,053 
and £602,911 respectively.
5. The former Group Finance Director resigned from the Board on 6 December 2015. Details of his leaving arrangements are set out on page 100. All awards made in 2013 and 
2014 and his sharesave award lapsed on leaving the Group. For transparency, these are shown in the ‘lapsed in year’ column.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 99 Payments to former directors and payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments made to former executive directors during the year ended 2 July 2016.
Departure terms for the former Group Finance Director (audited)
Keith Down resigned as Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015 and continued to receive salary and benefits until that date. The committee 
considered the overall circumstances of his departure as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules. The committee’s determinations, which 
are consistent with the remuneration policy, are set out below:
Remuneration element Description
Payment in lieu of notice No payment in respect of salary or benefits (or compensation in lieu) in respect of any period after 6 December 
2015 or compensation for loss of office was made
Performance-related bonus All entitlement to the performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016 has been forfeited
Pension allowance No pension allowance was made in respect of any period after 6 December 2015 and no additional amounts were 
paid for loss of office
Deferred share awards As reported last year, as the former Group Finance Director remained employed by the Group on the vesting date, 
the 2012/13 deferred shares vested in November 2015
Those other amounts of annual performance-related bonus from 2013 onwards that were compulsorily deferred 
into shares for a period of three years all lapsed with effect from 6 December 2015 in accordance with the plan 
rules
LTIP awards No 2015/16 LTIP grant was made to Keith Down
As reported last year, as the former Group Finance Director remained employed by the Group on the vesting date, 
the 2012/13 LTIP award vested in November 2015. All other LTIP awards lapsed with effect from 6 December 
2015 in accordance with the plan rules
Recruitment remuneration for Group Chief Financial Officer
The remuneration package for the new Group Chief Financial Officer comprises the following which is entirely in line with the approved remuneration policy:
• A base salary of £370,000
• Family healthcare membership
• A non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of base salary
• Eligibility to participate in the Group’s annual performance-related bonus up to a maximum of 150% of base salary per annum
• Eligibility to participate in the Group’s LTIP up to a maximum of 100% of base salary per annum
• The Group Chief Financial Officer has a service agreement which requires six months’ notice of termination by him and 12 months’ notice by the Group
• No compensation was paid for incentives lost from the Group Chief Financial Officer’s previous employer
Percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration between the financial years 28 June 2015 and 2 July 2016, 
compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2015 to 2016
Salary Benefits Bonus
Group Chief Executive – (2.8) (100)
Average employees 2.3 – (4.1)
Directors’ remuneration report continued
100 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executive remuneration comparison
Y ear Group Chief Executive
Single total figure of 
remuneration £’000
Annual performance-
related bonus (actual 
award v maximum 
opportunity)
Long term incentive 
vesting (vesting v 
maximum opportunity)
£’000 (and % vesting) £’000 (and % vesting)
2015/16 David Brown 1,311
1
£0 £744 (90%)
2014/15 David Brown 2,134
2
£558 (69.6%) £1,067 (100.0%)
2013/14 David Brown 1,960
2
£766 (97.5%) £666 (80.0%)
2012/13 David Brown 942 £422 (55.3%) –
2011/12 David Brown 1,022 £513 (68.0%) –
2010/11 David Brown 251
3
£125 (100.0%) –
2010/11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 £530 (100.0%) –
1. The single total figure of total remuneration for 2015/16 includes the vesting of the 2013/14 LTIP award. At the request of the Group Chief Executive, there was no annual 
base salary increase as at 1 April 2016 or any annual performance-related bonus paid for the year ended 2 July 2016.
2. The single figure of total remuneration for 2014/15 (restated) and 2013/14 includes the vesting of the 2012/13 and 2011/12 LTIP awards respectively. 
3. Following his appointment in April 2011, the Group Chief Executive was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year 2010/11.
The relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the 
previous year.
 
2015/16
£’m
2014/15
£’m
%  
change
Dividends £39.4 £36.7 7.4
Overall expenditure on pay £1,215.5 £1,079.6 12.6
The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in 
understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
Total shareholder return (TSR) 
performance graph 
The graph to the right shows a comparison of The 
Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved 
by the FTSE 250 Index for the last seven financial years to 2 
July 2016. In assessing the performance of the Group’s TSR, 
the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group it 
has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark 
upon which to measure the Group’s performance for 
this purpose.
This graph shows the value by 2 July 2016 of £100 invested 
in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 27 June 2009 compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index and 
our peer group over the same period. The other points 
plotted are the same values at intervening financial 
year ends.
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the 
Group Chief Executive over the same seven year period. 
The total remuneration figure includes the performance-
related bonus and LTIP awards (and the percentage of the 
maximum opportunity that these represent).
10 09 11 12 13 14 15 16
The Go-Ahead 
Group plc
FTSE 250 Index Peer Group 
(average return)
50
100
150
200
250
300
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 101 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Chairman and non-executive director fees
Fee levels for the Chairman and the non-executive directors were reviewed on 1 April 2016 and increased by 2%. Non-executive directors who chair a 
committee receive an additional fee. From 1 April 2016, an additional fee is also paid to the Senior Independent Director to reflect the additional time 
commitment attributable to this role.
Non-executive director Base fee
Additional fee  
for Senior Independent 
Director
Additional fee  
for chairing a committee T otal
Andrew Allner
From 1 April 2016 
£’000 p.a.
173 – – 173
From 1 April 2015 
£’000 p.a.
172 – 172
Katherine Innes Ker
From 1 April 2016 
£’000 p.a.
48 5 5 58
From 1 April 2015 
£’000 p.a.
47 – 5 52
Nick Horler
From 1 April 2016 
£’000 p.a.
48 – – 48
From 1 April 2015 
£’000 p.a.
47 – – 47
Adrian Ewer
From 1 April 2016 
£’000 p.a.
48 – 5 53
From 1 April 2015 
£’000 p.a.
47 – 5 52
Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the 
prior year:
Non-executive director
Single total remuneration figure £’000
2016 2015
Andrew Allner 173 170
Katherine Innes Ker 54 52
Nick Horler 47 46
Adrian Ewer 53 52
Non-executive directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement. The shareholdings of each non-executive director is as follows:
As at 2 July  
2016
As at 27 June 
2015
Andrew Allner 742 742
Katherine Innes Ker 116 –
Nick Horler 1,038 –
Adrian Ewer 138 138
Material contracts
There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and/or which were 
significant in relation to the Group’s business.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016/17
Details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2016/17 financial year are set out below.
2016/17 base salaries
The base salaries of the executive directors will remain unchanged until the next review on 1 April 2017. 
Benefits
The benefits for both executive directors will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on pages 88 and 89.
Pension
The current pension arrangements described on page 97 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
102 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2016/17 Performance-related bonus 
The performance measures and weightings for 2016/17 which remain unchanged from 2015/16 are as follows:
Metric Weighting (% of maximum bonus)
Adjusted Group operating profit (AGOP) 65%
Group cashflow 10%
Strategic KPIs 25%
AGOP , cashflow and strategic KPI targets will be stretching for the 2016/17 financial year and more information on the specific targets and performance 
against them will be provided retrospectively in next year’s remuneration report to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive at the time. The 
strategic KPIs include a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives, including customer satisfaction, communication and reputational KPI’s. 
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments 
potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.  
There will also be an additional rail customer service threshold, with the remuneration committee having discretion to scale back the bonus, if customer 
satisfaction across the Group’s train operating companies in Spring 2017, as measured by the Transport Focus National Rail Passenger Survey (NRPS) 
averaged across the Group’s train operating companies (Southeastern, Southern, Thameslink and Great Northern, Gatwick Express and London Midland) is 
less than the London and South East Sector NRPS reported for Spring 2016. 
Any bonus payable will be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares. Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to the full performance-related 
bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget review in conjunction with the auditor before approval of 
any bonus payment.
2016/17 LTIP awards
The structure of LTIP awards to be granted in 2016 will remain the same as for the 2015 awards with the EPS and TSR elements of the awards accounting 
for 40% each and a customer satisfaction target award of 20% split equally between rail and bus. The LTIP award will be subject to recovery and withholding 
provisions for three years following vesting. An additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards will also apply during which any vested 
awards may not be sold (other than to pay any tax and NICs due on exercise). This will result in an overall five year period before executives can realise the 
gain on vested shares. 
For the year commencing 3 July 2016, the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer will have a face value of 150% 
and 100% of salary respectively. The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2016/17 are detailed below: 
EPS payout (% of 
element)
Compound annual 
growth in  
adjusted EPS
Payout (% of TSR 
element)
Relative TSR vs 
FTSE 250 
(excluding certain 
sectors)
Payout (% of 
customer element)
Rail customer 
service target 
Bus customer 
service target
Weighting (% of total award) – 40% – 40% – 10% 10%
Below threshold 0% See below 0% Below median 0% Less than 78% Less than 90%
Threshold 10% 25% Median 10% 78% 90%
Between threshold and maximum Between 10% 
and 100%
Between 25% 
and 100%
Between 
median and 
upper quartile
Between 10% 
and 100%
Between 78% 
and 82%
Between 90% 
and 93%
Maximum 100% 100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93%
The committee is not proposing any changes to remuneration policy for the financial year 2016/17. However, the committee does have the discretion to 
vary the weighting of and choice of LTIP metrics prior to each award. In accordance with best practice, the committee will be consulting with the Group’s 
major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding the EPS targets for the 2016/17 awards in response to the revised outlook for GTR and 
analysts’ repositioning their forecasts. At the time of signing this report the adjusted EPS targets for the 2016/17 awards had not been finalised by the 
committee and so are not included in the table above. It is intended that these targets will be at least as stretching in the current circumstances as those set 
for the 2015/16 awards. 
The outcome of this consultation will be confirmed to the Group’s major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies before the 2016 AGM, in 
addition to being disclosed in next year’s annual report.
Non-executive directors’ fees
The non-executive directors’ fees will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review is undertaken on 1 April 2017.
Katherine Innes Ker,
Remuneration Committee Chair
8 September 2016
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 103 Directors’ report
Corporate governance report
Under DTR Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain parts of the corporate 
governance report to be outlined in this directors’ report. The corporate 
governance statement setting out how the Group complies with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 (the 2014 
Code) and which includes a description of the main features of its internal 
control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial 
reporting process is set out on pages 58 to 107. The information required 
by DTR 7.2.6R can be found in the ‘shareholder information’ section on 
pages 173 to 175. A description of the composition and operation of the 
Board and its committees is set out on pages 60 to 63.
Strategic report
The strategic report on pages 1 to 57 includes an indication of future likely 
developments in the Group, the Group’s business and model strategy and 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Articles of association
The Group’s articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a 
general meeting of shareholders. Shareholders of the Group can request a 
copy of the articles by contacting the Group Company Secretary at the 
registered office.
Directors and their interests
The directors of the Group as at the date of the approval of this Annual 
Report are shown on pages 60 and 61. All were directors throughout the 
year to 2 July 2016, with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief 
Financial Officer, who joined the Board on 14 March 2016. Keith Down 
resigned as Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015.
The interests of directors and their connected persons in the shares of the 
Group along with details of directors’ share options, are contained in the 
directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 84 to 103. 
Directors’ conflicts of interests
The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power to 
authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Group’s 
articles of association. The Board considers that the procedures in respect of 
this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively 
during the year and the conflicts register has been updated accordingly. The 
Board is aware of its directors’ other commitments and any changes to these 
commitments are advised to and approved by the Board committees.
The directors present their report and audited financial statements for 
the year ended 2 July 2016. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and forms part of the 
management report as required under Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule (DTR) 4. Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the 
directors’ report can be found elsewhere in this document and is 
referred to below. 
Election and re-election of directors
The appointment and replacement of directors are governed by the 
Group’s articles, the 2014 Code, the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and 
related legislation. The directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a 
general meeting of shareholders. The directors have the power to appoint a 
director during the year but any person so appointed must be subject to 
election at the first AGM following their appointment. The current articles 
require that all directors are subject to re-election on an annual basis. 
All directors will be submitting themselves for election or re-election at the 
AGM in accordance with the 2014 Code. The Board is satisfied that each 
director is qualified for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and 
contribution to the Board. Biographical details can be found on pages 
60 and 61.
Directors’ indemnities
The Group maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives 
appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors. The 
Group has also granted indemnities to each of its directors to the extent 
permitted by law. Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in 
Section 234 of the Act) were in force during the year ended 2 July 2016 and 
remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the directors 
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees 
of the Group or of any associated company. Neither the Group’s indemnity 
nor its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to 
have acted dishonestly or fraudulently. 
Share capital and substantial shareholdings
All information relating to the Group’s capital structure, rights attaching to 
shares, dividends, any restrictions on the transfer of shares, the policy to 
repurchase the Group’s own shares, substantial shareholdings and other 
shareholder information is shown on pages 173 to 175. 
Change of control
Details of change of control provisions in the Group’s rail franchise 
agreements and revolving credit facility are set out on page 175.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that 
occurs because of a takeover bid.
Dividends
Our dividend policy is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining 
dividend cover of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a 
pre IAS 19 (revised) basis, through the economic cycle. Details of the 
proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 2 July 2016 are 
shown on the consolidated income statement on page 112 of the report.
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Listing Rule 9.8.4R disclosures
Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4R of the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, can be found within the following sections of the 
Annual Report:
Listing  
Rule 9.8.4 Required disclosure Reference 
(1) Interest capitalised and tax relief Not applicable
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(3) Details of long term incentive schemes Note 6 to the financial statements and directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 84 to 103
(4) Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors’ remuneration report on pages 84 to 103
(5) Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable
(6) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
(7) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable
(8) Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
(9) Contracts of significance Not applicable
(10) Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
(11) Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors’ report on pages 104 to 107
(12) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors’ report on pages 104 to 107
(13) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 105 Directors’ report continued
Share schemes
Employee Benefit Trust
The Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, the Trustee of The Go-Ahead 
Group Employee Trust (the Trust), holds shares for the benefit of the 
Group’s executive directors and in particular for the satisfying of awards 
made under the Group’s Long T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan (DSBP). During the financial period, as part of a 12 month 
planned programme of monthly share purchases, the Trust purchased a total 
of 172,964 ordinary shares at a total price of £4,366,152.11 (including all 
associated costs). The average price was £22.58 per share. As at 8 
September 2016 (being the latest practical date prior to the date of this 
report) the Trust held 147,886 ordinary shares representing 0.34% of the 
issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit 
of the executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP . The 
voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and 
dividends are waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Share Incentive Plan
The Group operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under review, 
enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the Group. In order 
to preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are held in a trust by EES 
Corporate Trustees Limited for participating employees. Whilst these shares 
are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by 
the Trustee or the employees for whom they are held. As at 8 September 
2016 (being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report), 0.9% of 
the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by EES 
Corporate Trustees Limited. In the event of an offer being made to acquire 
these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees 
Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
Save As You Earn Scheme 
The Group also operates a save as you earn scheme known as The 
Go-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 
(Sharesave), for which the last launch was in February 2016. Under 
Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least six 
months’ continuous service with a participating company are invited to make 
monthly savings of between £5 and £50 for three years. At the end of the 
savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or to 
purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to the market price 
set at the date of invitation.
Political donations and expenditure
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations and accordingly no 
such payments were made in the year (2016: £nil). Additionally, the Group 
did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Act (2016: £nil).
Employees 
Details of the Group’s employee policies, including those concerning the 
employment of disabled persons and employee engagement, are provided 
on pages 32 to 35, within the ‘People’ section. There have been no significant 
changes to our policies over the year.
Pension 
The defined benefit section of the Group’s pension plan closed to future 
accrual with effect from 1 April 2014. Existing members were offered the 
opportunity to join the defined contribution section instead. The defined 
contribution section of the Group’s pension plan was closed to new 
employees with effect from 1 April 2013 but existing members continue to 
contribute at their current contribution levels. A new ‘workplace savings 
section’ was set up with effect from 1 April 2013 for the purposes of 
auto-enrolment. This provides a default investment option and at least the 
minimum level of contributions as required under Government regulations.
Reappointment of external auditor
Details of the reappointment of the external auditor are provided 
on page 74.
Post balance sheet events 
There have been no material events from 2 July 2016 to the date of 
this report.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic 
report. The financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the finance review on pages 46 to 
49. In addition note 22 to the financial statements includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 
flow risk.
Cash generation from the Group’s bus and rail operations was excellent and 
the balance sheet remains strong. Core financing is provided by a £200m 
sterling bond securing financing to September 2017 and committed bank 
facilities of £280.0m originally to July 2019, but subsequent to the year end, 
has been extended to July 2021. In July 2014 the £280m facility replaced a 
£275.5m February 2016 facility. On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into 
a £200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the £200m sterling 
7.5 year bond. This facility is available to draw down between 4 September 
2017 and 29 September 2017. Once drawn down, the facility is available to 
the Group with extensions for up to a further 24 months. The directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic 
conditions, the Group’s ability to continue as a ‘going concern’. The directors 
confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
they continue to adopt the ‘going concern’ basis in preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
The directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of viability 
over a longer period, which can be found on page 41. 
The directors ‘going concern’ confirmation and ‘viability statement’ have both 
been considered in accordance with the ‘Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting’ published by 
the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014. 
106 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ statement of responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare Group 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors are 
required to prepare Group financial statements under IFRS as adopted by 
the European Union. Detailed below are statements made by the directors 
in relation to their responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Group’s 
auditors, going concern and management’s report on internal control over 
financial reporting. 
Financial statements and accounting records
Under company law the directors must not approve the Group financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors are required to:
• Present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cashflows 
of the Group
• Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them 
consistently
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European Union is insufficient 
to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and 
financial performance
• State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and 
enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 
Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for the 
system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and, 
hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic report, 
directors’ report, including the directors’ remuneration report and the 
corporate governance report, in accordance with the Act and applicable 
regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
corporate website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement of responsibility under 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole
• The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face
Directors’ statement under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, there 
is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 418(3) of the Act of 
which the Group’s auditor is unaware and the directors have taken all the 
steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
By order of the Board
Carolyn Ferguson,
Group Company Secretary
8 September 2016
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 107 Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Opinion on financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 2 July 2016 and of the 
group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, 
Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income, 
Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, Consolidated 
and Company balance sheets, Consolidated cashflow statement and the 
related Consolidated notes 1 to 28 and Company notes 1 to 18. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threat en the solvency or liquidity 
of the group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the 
directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained 
within the Managing Risk section of the strategic report on page 41. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those 
that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity; 
• the disclosures on pages 43-45 that describe those risks and explain 
how they are being managed or mitigated; 
• the directors’ statement in the Directors’ report on page 106 to the 
financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements; 
• the directors’ explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the 
prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of 
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. 
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the 
group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
 
 
 
  
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Opinion on financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 2 July 2016 and of the 
group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, 
Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income, 
Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, Consolidated 
and Company balance sheets, Consolidated cashflow statement and the 
related Consolidated notes 1 to 28 and Company notes 1 to 18. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threat en the solvency or liquidity 
of the group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the 
directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained 
within the Managing Risk section of the strategic report on page 41. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those 
that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity; 
• the disclosures on pages 43-45 that describe those risks and explain 
how they are being managed or mitigated; 
• the directors’ statement in the Directors’ report on page 106 to the 
financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements; 
• the directors’ explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the 
prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of 
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. 
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the 
group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
 
 
 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 
 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in 
the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Rail franchise compliance and revenue recognition 
As noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements section on page 
120 in respect of the three train operating companies (TOCs) a 
franchise agreement details the arrangements covering entitlement 
to revenue, certain costs and performance conditions. Due to the 
complexity of the arrangements there is a risk that the financial 
statements do not appropriately reflect the correct revenue and 
costs in terms of completeness, measurement and occurrence, 
and/or income/penalties that can arise based on the actual 
performance of the individual TOC under the franchise agreement. 
• We have read the key elements of the franchise agreements to understand 
their critical elements, inform the audit approach and challenge the accounting 
treatments adopted. 
• We have performed a review of all significant assets, provisions and accruals, 
and associated revenue or costs recognised, to assess whether their recognition 
and quantum is appropriately stated, and whether there are any indicators that 
the balances held should no longer be recognised due to the passage of time, 
changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements. 
• We have held meetings with each of the franchise compliance managers to 
assess whether there are any new issues of non-compliance or expected non-
compliance, and whether any franchise committed obligations will not be 
delivered. 
• We have tested the schedules prepared by management to source information, 
evaluated whether it is compliant with the franchise agreements, and tested the 
calculations applied including recalculation where relevant. 
• We have held meetings with the Finance Directors and members of the finance 
team to assess on a case by case basis the movements in the provisions and 
accruals, during the period under review, and challenged management both on 
the recognition of new provisions and accruals, and also the continued 
recognition of long standing provisions and accruals. 
• We have reviewed Board minutes and Board papers to assess whether there is 
inconsistency in the determination of the provisions and accruals balances or 
any significant judgements which have not been accounted for by management.
• We have reviewed relevant legal documentation and minutes of meetings held 
with the Department for Transport. 
• We have reviewed the accounts disclosures to assess whether they 
are appropriate. 
Rail provisions and accruals 
This risk relates to the incorrect valuation of contractual and 
property related liabilities, in particular third party claims; and 
dilapidation provisions relating to rolling stock, depots and 
stations (note 24).  
Key judgements are the assessment of the recognition criteria in 
each individual circumstance and the level of the provision required 
as noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120.  
• We gained an understanding of each significant accrual or provision, the basis of 
estimate and the range of possible outcomes with the Finance Director and 
relevant members of the finance team. Where possible, we have completed a 
review of supporting documentation and evidence for the existence of the 
obligation and re-performed management’s calculations. 
• We assessed whether the provisions meet the criteria for recognition per 
IAS 37 and whether they have been appropriately classified as provisions or 
as an accrual. 
• We assessed whether the third parties used to estimate relevant valuations 
have the appropriate experience, qualifications and knowledge of the business, 
and agreed the findings from their surveys into the provision.  
• We reviewed relevant legal documentation and correspondence with  
Network Rail. 
Uninsured liabilities 
This risk relates to the incorrect valuation of insurance related 
liabilities, in particular uninsured liabilities relating to transport 
incidents. Judgement is required in the assessment of the 
recognition criteria in each individual circumstance and the level 
of  the provision required. 
The application of this accounting treatment requires significant 
levels of management judgement regarding the level of self- 
insurance required and the amount to provide in respect of claims 
incurred but not reported. 
The uninsured claims provision held in the Group financial 
statements at 2 July 2016 is £42.1m (£41.3m as at 27 June 2015) 
(see note 24) and is noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements 
on page 120. 
• We have gained an understanding of the Group’s obligations under its insurance 
policies with relevant members of the finance team and reviewed the 
documents to confirm these. 
• We have assessed the self-insurance provision to settle claims for incidents 
which arose prior to the balance sheet date (including those for incidents 
incurred but not reported) for completeness and accuracy through discussions 
held with the finance team and testing of third party reports. 
• We have gained a detailed understanding of the methodology used to calculate 
the claims incurred liabilities.  
• We have tested the completeness of the information received and gained a 
detailed understanding of the approach used to determine the provision for 
claims incurred but not received and tested this provision against historical 
trends.  
• We have reviewed group and subsidiary Board minutes, Board papers and held 
discussions with management to identify any significant matters which should 
have been considered when creating the provision and to identify any 
inconsistencies between the minutes and our understanding from the review of 
provisions performed. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 109 Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued 
 
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Accounting for pensions and related disclosure 
Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and 
significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability 
provided as set out in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120.  
The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in long-
term assumptions year on year which could materially impact the Group’s 
balance sheet position. 
The franchise adjustment also requires judgement under the relevant 
accounting consideration (IFRIC 14) and is sector specific in the case of the 
Railway Pension Scheme.  
The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27. 
• We have involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values 
used by management’s actuaries for key assumptions at the year-end 
are within Deloitte’s acceptable range with a focus on estimations of 
future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred 
members and the selection of a suitable discount rate.  
• We have involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness 
of the methodology used by management’s actuaries to calculate the 
liabilities for the pension schemes. 
• We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries to calculate 
the liabilities for the pension scheme. 
• We have reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension 
Scheme, and the franchise adjustment applied, for compliance with the 
Group’s accounting policy and IFRS. 
• We have assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements 
and considered their compliance with the requirements of 
IAS 19 (revised). 
Revenue recognition – bus 
In the bus division the risk over revenue recognition has been focused on 
whether recognising revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, 
contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive Contract premiums in 
London Bus is appropriate. 
• We have gained an in depth understanding of the process undertaken 
to recognise revenue in the bus businesses with the finance team and 
the associated reviews and controls performed. 
• We evaluated the design and implementation of controls related to 
revenue processes to identify any potential areas of risk around the 
correct recording of revenue.  
• We have performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of 
the key revenue balances at each in scope bus business including a 
focus on the Quality Incentive Contract premium income recognised in 
London Bus. 
 
Last year the previous auditor’s report included one other risk which is 
not included in our report this year being the carrying value of goodwill 
which following the impairments charged in the prior year is no longer 
considered to be a significant risk to the audit. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the 
significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
page 75. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We 
use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the group to be £3.97m, which is below 
5% of statutory pre-tax profit, which is considered an area of focus for the 
users of the accounts, and below 2.5% of equity. The previous auditor 
determined a materiality of £4.38m using 5% of statutory pre-tax profit 
before exceptional items as the basis. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £78k, as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters 
that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.  
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group 
and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement at the group level. We have not scoped in the 
new overseas businesses in Singapore or Germany reflecting that these 
were not operational or material to the Group at the balance sheet date.  
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on 
the audit work at 10 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses 
which were subject to a full audit. The remaining 2 bus businesses were 
subject to desktop review. The locations in scope represent the principal 
business units and account for 98% of the group’s total assets, 99% of the 
group’s revenue and 100% of the group’s profit before tax with the 
businesses subject to desktop review contributing an immaterial loss. The 
locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking 
audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. 
Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of 
materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than 
group materiality and ranged from £1m to £2.34m. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or 
audit of specified account balances. 
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits 
that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or a 
senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where 
the group audit scope was focussed at least once every year and the most 
significant of them at least twice a year. 
  
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued 
 
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Accounting for pensions and related disclosure 
Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and 
significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability 
provided as set out in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120.  
The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in long-
term assumptions year on year which could materially impact the Group’s 
balance sheet position. 
The franchise adjustment also requires judgement under the relevant 
accounting consideration (IFRIC 14) and is sector specific in the case of the 
Railway Pension Scheme.  
The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27. 
• We have involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values 
used by management’s actuaries for key assumptions at the year-end 
are within Deloitte’s acceptable range with a focus on estimations of 
future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred 
members and the selection of a suitable discount rate.  
• We have involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness 
of the methodology used by management’s actuaries to calculate the 
liabilities for the pension schemes. 
• We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries to calculate 
the liabilities for the pension scheme. 
• We have reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension 
Scheme, and the franchise adjustment applied, for compliance with the 
Group’s accounting policy and IFRS. 
• We have assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements 
and considered their compliance with the requirements of 
IAS 19 (revised). 
Revenue recognition – bus 
In the bus division the risk over revenue recognition has been focused on 
whether recognising revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, 
contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive Contract premiums in 
London Bus is appropriate. 
• We have gained an in depth understanding of the process undertaken 
to recognise revenue in the bus businesses with the finance team and 
the associated reviews and controls performed. 
• We evaluated the design and implementation of controls related to 
revenue processes to identify any potential areas of risk around the 
correct recording of revenue.  
• We have performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of 
the key revenue balances at each in scope bus business including a 
focus on the Quality Incentive Contract premium income recognised in 
London Bus. 
 
Last year the previous auditor’s report included one other risk which is 
not included in our report this year being the carrying value of goodwill 
which following the impairments charged in the prior year is no longer 
considered to be a significant risk to the audit. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the 
significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
page 75. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We 
use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the group to be £3.97m, which is below 
5% of statutory pre-tax profit, which is considered an area of focus for the 
users of the accounts, and below 2.5% of equity. The previous auditor 
determined a materiality of £4.38m using 5% of statutory pre-tax profit 
before exceptional items as the basis. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £78k, as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters 
that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.  
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group 
and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement at the group level. We have not scoped in the 
new overseas businesses in Singapore or Germany reflecting that these 
were not operational or material to the Group at the balance sheet date.  
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on 
the audit work at 10 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses 
which were subject to a full audit. The remaining 2 bus businesses were 
subject to desktop review. The locations in scope represent the principal 
business units and account for 98% of the group’s total assets, 99% of the 
group’s revenue and 100% of the group’s profit before tax with the 
businesses subject to desktop review contributing an immaterial loss. The 
locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking 
audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. 
Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of 
materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than 
group materiality and ranged from £1m to £2.34m. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or 
audit of specified account balances. 
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits 
that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or a 
senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where 
the group audit scope was focussed at least once every year and the most 
significant of them at least twice a year. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our 
opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made 
or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to 
report arising from these matters. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance 
with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other info rmation in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our 
audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses 
those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we 
consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not 
identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the 
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality 
Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for 
this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
 
 
 
 
Christopher Powell, FCA (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
8 September 2016
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 111 Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
112 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Group revenue 4 3,361.3 3,215.2
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs) 5 (3,240.9) (3,100.5)
Intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment 13 (3.0) (9.1)
Exceptional operating costs  7 – (8.8)
Total operating costs  (3,243.9) (3,118.4)
Group operating profit  117.4 96.8
Group operating profit (before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs)  120.4 114.7
Finance revenue 4, 8 3.2 2.4
Finance costs 8 (20.8) (20.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation  99.8 78.7
Tax expense 9 (18.5) (19.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  81.3 59.3
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  69.7 52.2
Non-controlling interests  11.6 7.1
  81.3 59.3
Earnings per share   
– basic  10 162.3p 121.6p
– diluted 10 161.4p 119.5p
– adjusted basic* 10 220.5p 181.8p
– adjusted diluted* 10 219.3p 178.6p
  
Dividends paid (pence per share) 11 91.73p 85.60p
Final dividend proposed (pence per share) 11 67.52p 63.40p
* Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adjusting for amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) to the 
extent that they impact earnings attributable to equity shareholders. 
The year ended 2 July 2016 was a 53 week year compared with the year ended 27 June 2015 which was a 52 week year. 
 
112 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
112 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Group revenue 4 3,361.3 3,215.2
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs) 5 (3,240.9) (3,100.5)
Intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment 13 (3.0) (9.1)
Exceptional operating costs  7 – (8.8)
Total operating costs  (3,243.9) (3,118.4)
Group operating profit  117.4 96.8
Group operating profit (before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs)  120.4 114.7
Finance revenue 4, 8 3.2 2.4
Finance costs 8 (20.8) (20.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation  99.8 78.7
Tax expense 9 (18.5) (19.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  81.3 59.3
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  69.7 52.2
Non-controlling interests  11.6 7.1
  81.3 59.3
Earnings per share   
– basic  10 162.3p 121.6p
– diluted 10 161.4p 119.5p
– adjusted basic* 10 220.5p 181.8p
– adjusted diluted* 10 219.3p 178.6p
  
Dividends paid (pence per share) 11 91.73p 85.60p
Final dividend proposed (pence per share) 11 67.52p 63.40p
* Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adjusting for amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised) to the 
extent that they impact earnings attributable to equity shareholders. 
The year ended 2 July 2016 was a 53 week year compared with the year ended 27 June 2015 which was a 52 week year. 
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 
The consolidated income statement includes the majority of our income and expenses for the year with the remainder 
recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
Revenue 
Revenue increased by 4.5% to £3,361.3m (2015: £3,215.2m). The rail operations comprised 74.3% of the total revenue and grew by 4.2% during the 
year to £2,498.0m primarily as a result of a full year of operation of GTR, which took over operation of the First Capital Connect franchise partway 
through the previous year. Regional bus comprised 11.2% of revenue, growing by 4.4% to £375.7m, and London bus comprised the remaining 14.5%, 
growing by 6.5% to £487.6m. Divisional performance is shown in note 3. 
Operating profit* 
Overall, the operating profit* increased 5.0% from £114.7m to £120.4m with improved profitability in both rail and bus. The rail business margins 
remained at 1.1%, the regional bus margins improved from 13.0% to 13.2% and London bus decreased marginally from 9.2% to 8.9% as a result of 
reduced QICs income. Rail profitability is underpinned by cost controls and contract management benefits. Cost control is also a focus of the bus 
divisions. 
Intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment 
The intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment charge for the year is £3.0m (2015: £9.1m), of which £3.0m (2015: £4.2m) represents the non-
cash cost of amortising software costs, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. The prior year charge included a goodwill impairment charge of 
£4.9m which related to the Go East Anglia bus operations. 
Exceptional operating items  
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group incurred restructuring costs in its GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Greater Northern 
together with Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure.  
Finance costs 
Overall net finance costs are consistent year on year. 
Tax expense 
The tax expense decreased from £19.4m in 2015 to £18.5m. The 2016 effective tax rate is 18.5%. The underlying tax rate in 2015 was 23.2%, excluding 
goodwill impairment of £4.9m. In both years the underlying rate is higher than the statutory rate due to non-tax deductible costs such as overseas bid 
costs. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adjusting for amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating items and the incremental 
impact of IAS 19 (revised) to the extent that they impact earnings attributable to equity shareholders. Adjusted earnings per share is shown in note 10 
and has increased to 220.5p from 181.8p, an increase of 21.3%, largely reflecting increased profit before taxation. 
* Operating profit before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs. 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 113 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year  81.3 59.3
  
Other comprehensive income  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 27 100.8 24.6
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9 (19.7) (4.9)
  81.1 19.7
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges  (17.4) (36.0)
Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement – operating costs  28.7 16.2
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 (2.1) 4.0
Foreign exchange gain  0.4 –
 9.6 (15.8)
  
Other comprehensive gains for the year, net of tax  90.7 3.9
  
Total comprehensive income for the year  172.0 63.2
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  147.6 49.4
Non-controlling interests  24.4 13.8
  172.0 63.2
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income records all of the income and losses generated for the year 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
Profit for the year 
The profit for the year after taxation is £81.3m and includes amounts attributable to equity shareholders and non-controlling interests. 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 
As disclosed in note 27 the remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans were £100.8m, which consisted of rail pension plans showing 
remeasurements of £45.3m and bus pension plans showing remeasurements of £55.5m. 
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges 
The Group manages its exposure to the future cost of diesel through a programme of hedging. At each period end the derivatives used are marked  
to a market price and the amounts attributable to future periods are revalued through the comprehensive income statement. 
 
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year  81.3 59.3
  
Other comprehensive income  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 27 100.8 24.6
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9 (19.7) (4.9)
  81.1 19.7
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges  (17.4) (36.0)
Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement – operating costs  28.7 16.2
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 (2.1) 4.0
Foreign exchange gain  0.4 –
 9.6 (15.8)
  
Other comprehensive gains for the year, net of tax  90.7 3.9
  
Total comprehensive income for the year  172.0 63.2
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  147.6 49.4
Non-controlling interests  24.4 13.8
  172.0 63.2
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income records all of the income and losses generated for the year 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
Profit for the year 
The profit for the year after taxation is £81.3m and includes amounts attributable to equity shareholders and non-controlling interests. 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 
As disclosed in note 27 the remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans were £100.8m, which consisted of rail pension plans showing 
remeasurements of £45.3m and bus pension plans showing remeasurements of £55.5m. 
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges 
The Group manages its exposure to the future cost of diesel through a programme of hedging. At each period end the derivatives used are marked  
to a market price and the amounts attributable to future periods are revalued through the comprehensive income statement. 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 
 
Share  
capital 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Share 
premium 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
shareholders’  
equity 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 28 June 2014 72.1 (69.9) (4.2) 1.6 0.7 50.4 50.7 16.4 67.1
Profit for the year – – – – – 52.2 52.2 7.1 59.3
Net movement on hedges (net of tax) – – (15.8) – – – (15.8) – (15.8)
Remeasurement on defined benefit 
retirement plans (net of tax) (note 27) – – – – – 13.0 13.0 6.7 19.7
Total comprehensive income – – (15.8) – – 65.2 49.4 13.8 63.2
Exercise of share options – 1.1 – – – (1.1) – – –
Share based payment charge (and 
associated tax) (note 6) – – – – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Dividends (note 11) – – – – – (36.7) (36.7) (12.8) (49.5)
At 27 June 2015 72.1 (68.8) (20.0) 1.6 0.7 79.7 65.3 17.4 82.7
Profit for the year – – – – – 69.7 69.7 11.6 81.3
Net movement on hedges (net of tax) – – 9.2 – – – 9.2 – 9.2
Remeasurement on defined benefit 
retirement plans (net of tax) (note 27) – – – – – 68.3 68.3 12.8 81.1
Foreign exchange gain – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Total comprehensive income – – 9.2 – – 138.4 147.6 24.4 172.0
Exercise of share options – 2.3 – – – (2.3) – – –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) (note 6) – – – – – 2.0 2.0 – 2.0
Acquisition of own shares – (4.4) – – – – (4.4) – (4.4)
Dividends (note 11) – – – – – (39.4) (39.4) (17.8) (57.2)
At 2 July 2016 72.1 (70.9) (10.8) 1.6 0.7 178.4 171.1 24.0 195.1
The consolidated statement of changes in equity shows the movements in equity shareholders’ funds and 
non-controlling interests 
Equity shareholders’ funds increased from £65.3m to £171.1m as a result of retained profit for the year exceeding dividend payments, and 
remeasurement gains on defined benefit retirement plans (net of tax) of £68.3m in the year. 
Non-controlling interests have increased from £17.4m to £24.0m and consist of the appropriate share of rail profits, plus a relevant proportion of 
remeasurement gains on rail pension schemes, less dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year. 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 115 Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 2 July 2016 
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 494.3 437.4
Intangible assets 13 82.8 84.7
Trade and other receivables 17 1.6 0.8
Other financial assets 23 0.2 –
Deferred tax assets 9 4.2 11.9
  583.1 534.8
Current assets  
Inventories 16 18.3 17.9
Trade and other receivables 17 337.0 260.1
Other financial assets 23 0.6 –
Cash and cash equivalents 18 636.3 604.2
  992.2 882.2
Assets classified as held for sale 15 0.8 6.0
Total assets  1,576.1 1,423.0
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 19 (872.5) (772.9)
Other financial liabilities 23 (10.3) (19.1)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 – 0.7
Current tax liabilities 9 (18.9) (14.9)
Provisions 24 (32.0) (75.4)
  (933.7) (881.6)
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (312.4) (310.2)
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (2.7) (59.5)
Other financial liabilities 23 (4.1) (5.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (50.1) (46.1)
Other liabilities 19 (4.3) (5.2)
Provisions 24 (73.7) (32.2)
  (447.3) (458.7)
Total liabilities  (1,381.0) (1,340.3)
Net assets  195.1 82.7
Capital & reserves  
Share capital  72.1 72.1
Reserve for own shares  (70.9) (68.8)
Hedging reserve  (10.8) (20.0)
Share premium reserve  1.6 1.6
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Retained earnings  178.4 79.7
Total shareholders’ equity  171.1 65.3
Non-controlling interests  24.0 17.4
Total equity  195.1 82.7
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 September 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Allner,    Patrick Butcher, 
Chairman    Group Chief Financial Officer 
    
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 2 July 2016 
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 494.3 437.4
Intangible assets 13 82.8 84.7
Trade and other receivables 17 1.6 0.8
Other financial assets 23 0.2 –
Deferred tax assets 9 4.2 11.9
  583.1 534.8
Current assets  
Inventories 16 18.3 17.9
Trade and other receivables 17 337.0 260.1
Other financial assets 23 0.6 –
Cash and cash equivalents 18 636.3 604.2
  992.2 882.2
Assets classified as held for sale 15 0.8 6.0
Total assets  1,576.1 1,423.0
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 19 (872.5) (772.9)
Other financial liabilities 23 (10.3) (19.1)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 – 0.7
Current tax liabilities 9 (18.9) (14.9)
Provisions 24 (32.0) (75.4)
  (933.7) (881.6)
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (312.4) (310.2)
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (2.7) (59.5)
Other financial liabilities 23 (4.1) (5.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (50.1) (46.1)
Other liabilities 19 (4.3) (5.2)
Provisions 24 (73.7) (32.2)
  (447.3) (458.7)
Total liabilities  (1,381.0) (1,340.3)
Net assets  195.1 82.7
Capital & reserves  
Share capital  72.1 72.1
Reserve for own shares  (70.9) (68.8)
Hedging reserve  (10.8) (20.0)
Share premium reserve  1.6 1.6
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Retained earnings  178.4 79.7
Total shareholders’ equity  171.1 65.3
Non-controlling interests  24.0 17.4
Total equity  195.1 82.7
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 September 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Allner,    Patrick Butcher, 
Chairman    Group Chief Financial Officer 
    
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 
The consolidated balance sheet shows all of our assets and liabilities at the year end 
Further details of the major movements of our assets and liabilities in the year are set out below: 
Assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Overall, the property, plant and equipment totalled £494.3m, £56.9m up on the prior year, with the vast majority held in the bus division in freehold 
land and buildings and bus vehicles. During the year the Group spent £113.9m on assets, £96.1m in the bus division and £17.8m in the rail division; 
offsetting this were depreciation charges of £55.2m, £47.8m in bus and £7.4m in rail.  
Intangible assets 
Of the total intangible balance of £82.8m, goodwill on the acquisition of bus businesses represents £75.9m, with no additions during the year. Additions 
during the year comprised £0.7m of software costs, and acquisitions comprised £0.4m of customer contracts in the bus business. Amortisation during 
the year totalled £3.0m. 
Other current assets 
The Group’s current assets totalled £992.2m, up £110.0m on the prior year. Of this increase, £32.1m was in cash and cash equivalents and £76.9m was 
in trade and other receivables, mainly held in the rail business. 
Assets held for sale 
Assets held for sale of £0.8m are made up of property, plant and equipment. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables have increased by £99.6m to £872.5m, mainly attributable to the rail business. 
Other financial liabilities 
Included in current liabilities is £10.3m and in non-current liabilities is £4.1m which represent the mark to market value of the fuel hedges, split between 
those due within one year and those due in more than one year. There are also other financial assets included in current assets of £0.6m and non-
current assets of £0.2m, also representing the mark to market value of the fuel hedges. 
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings totalled £312.4m, up from £310.2m in 2015. Principal balances within this amount are a corporate 
bond of £200m and amounts drawn on our revolving credit facility of £113.0m offset by deferred debt issue costs. Interest rates and movements on 
these balances are shown in full in note 20. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
Further details of the retirement benefit obligations in both bus and rail are shown in note 27. The deficit on the bus schemes total £2.7m and 
represents the excess of future liabilities compared to current assets in the pension fund. This deficit is primarily being addressed using an asset backed 
off balance sheet funding arrangement agreed with the scheme trustees. The rail deficit is £nil as the ongoing responsibility for the deficit remains with 
DfT beyond each franchise term. 
Provisions 
As shown in note 24, the Group provides for both uninsured claims and for franchise commitments including property and rolling stock dilapidations.  
The total provision for uninsured claims of £42.1m is higher than in 2015. Franchise commitments are lower than prior year at £60.1m. The Group 
engages with external third party professionals to assist in the calculation of these provisions. 
Total equity 
Movements in equity and reserves are described in the commentary on the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 117 Consolidated cashflow statement 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit after tax for the year  81.3 59.3
Net finance costs 8 17.6 18.1
Tax expense 9 18.5 19.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 55.2 70.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 3.0 4.2
Impairment of goodwill 13 – 4.9
Profit on sale of assets held for sale  (0.7) (0.4)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  0.7 –
Share based payment charges 6 2.2 1.6
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement  41.8 22.0
Sale of assets held for disposal  – 1.5
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (0.4) 3.0
Increase in trade and other receivables  (76.8) (3.3)
Increase in trade and other payables  99.0 232.1
Movement in provisions  (4.3) (1.5)
Cashflow generated from operations  237.1 431.4
Taxation paid 9 (24.8) (20.3)
Net cashflows from operating activities  212.3 411.1
Cashflows from investing activities  
Interest received  3.2 2.3
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  2.3 0.5
Proceeds from sale of assets held for disposal  5.9 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (113.9) (42.3)
Purchase of intangible assets  (0.7) (6.1)
Net cash transfer on handover of rail franchise 18 – 34.8
Purchase of businesses 14 (0.5) (0.4)
Repayment of funding for rolling stock procurement  – (68.6)
Sale of rolling stock  – 68.6
Repayments from US joint venture  – 1.8
Net cashflows used in investing activities  (103.7) (9.4)
Cashflows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (16.2) (16.6)
Dividends paid to members of the parent 11 (39.4) (36.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (17.8) (12.8)
Payment to acquire own shares  (4.4) –
Foreign exchange gain  0.4 –
Repayment of borrowings  – (122.5)
Proceeds from borrowings  2.0 111.0
Payment of finance lease and hire purchase liabilities  (1.1) (1.7)
Net cash outflows on financing activities  (76.5) (79.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  32.1 322.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 27 June 2015 18 604.2 281.8
Cash and cash equivalents at 2 July 2016 18 636.3 604.2
 
 
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated cashflow statement 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit after tax for the year  81.3 59.3
Net finance costs 8 17.6 18.1
Tax expense 9 18.5 19.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 55.2 70.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 3.0 4.2
Impairment of goodwill 13 – 4.9
Profit on sale of assets held for sale  (0.7) (0.4)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  0.7 –
Share based payment charges 6 2.2 1.6
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement  41.8 22.0
Sale of assets held for disposal  – 1.5
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (0.4) 3.0
Increase in trade and other receivables  (76.8) (3.3)
Increase in trade and other payables  99.0 232.1
Movement in provisions  (4.3) (1.5)
Cashflow generated from operations  237.1 431.4
Taxation paid 9 (24.8) (20.3)
Net cashflows from operating activities  212.3 411.1
Cashflows from investing activities  
Interest received  3.2 2.3
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  2.3 0.5
Proceeds from sale of assets held for disposal  5.9 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (113.9) (42.3)
Purchase of intangible assets  (0.7) (6.1)
Net cash transfer on handover of rail franchise 18 – 34.8
Purchase of businesses 14 (0.5) (0.4)
Repayment of funding for rolling stock procurement  – (68.6)
Sale of rolling stock  – 68.6
Repayments from US joint venture  – 1.8
Net cashflows used in investing activities  (103.7) (9.4)
Cashflows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (16.2) (16.6)
Dividends paid to members of the parent 11 (39.4) (36.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (17.8) (12.8)
Payment to acquire own shares  (4.4) –
Foreign exchange gain  0.4 –
Repayment of borrowings  – (122.5)
Proceeds from borrowings  2.0 111.0
Payment of finance lease and hire purchase liabilities  (1.1) (1.7)
Net cash outflows on financing activities  (76.5) (79.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  32.1 322.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 27 June 2015 18 604.2 281.8
Cash and cash equivalents at 2 July 2016 18 636.3 604.2
 
 
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 
The consolidated cashflow statement shows the cashflows from operating, investing and financing activities for the year 
Net cash/debt 
Closing adjusted net debt was £239.3m, a positive movement of £5.4m from opening adjusted net debt of £244.7m. This has been achieved as the 
result of increased profitability. 
Cashflow reconciliation 
A reconciliation of cash generated by operations to free cashflow and net debt, two non-GAAP measures used by management, is shown below.  
Summary cashflow 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Increase/(decrease)
 £m
EBITDA
1
 212.6 205.2 7.4
Working capital/other items (excluding restricted cash movements) (0.2) (59.3) 59.1
Cashflow generated from operations 212.4 145.9 66.5
Tax paid (24.8) (20.3) (4.5)
Net interest paid (13.0) (14.3) 1.3
Net capital investment (106.4) (47.9) (58.5)
Free cashflow 68.2 63.4 4.8
Net acquisitions (0.5) (0.4) (0.1)
Joint venture repayment – 1.8 (1.8)
Other (0.7) – (0.7)
Payments to acquire own shares (4.4) – (4.4)
Dividends paid (57.2) (49.5) (7.7)
Decrease in adjusted net debt
2
 5.4 15.3 (9.9)
Opening adjusted net debt
2
 (244.7) (260.0) n/a
Closing adjusted net debt
2
 (239.3) (244.7) n/a
1 Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and incremental impact of IAS 19 (revised). 
2 Adjusted net debt represents net cash less restricted cash. 
EBITDA increased by £7.4m or 3.6% to £212.6m through increased profitability across all three divisions.  
Negative working capital after adjusting for restricted cash in 2015 was predominantly in the rail business and reflects changes in the London Midland 
and Southeastern franchise agreements. 
Capital expenditure, net of sale proceeds, was £58.5m higher in the year at £106.4m (2015: £47.9m) predominantly due to new bus vehicle purchases 
in both the regional bus and London fleet. 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 119 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
 
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Contract and franchise accounting 
The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of 
privatisation and the relationships between them is governed by a number 
of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and 
train operating companies. These contracts include detailed performance 
regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating 
to the attribution of delays. The processes for attribution, whilst well 
understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to 
resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.  
The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to performance 
regimes and contractual obligations relating to operating delays caused by 
Network Rail, or caused by our own operating companies. This process 
can be based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or, 
in certain circumstances based on management’s view of the most likely 
outcome of individual claims. The Group has significant internal expertise 
to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and the issues 
relating to delay attribution to enable management to assess the most 
probable outcomes, nonetheless significant judgements are required, 
which can have material impacts on the financial statements.  
Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a 
continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable carrying 
value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and other 
contracts. Regular reviews are performed on the expected outcome of 
these arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating 
to the expected level of revenues and costs. Contract and franchise 
accounting is specific to the rail business disclosed in the segmental 
analysis in note 3. 
Measurement of franchise commitments 
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation 
provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims 
from other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24. Significant 
elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation of 
franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements. The Group has 
significant internal expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the 
agreements and to enable management to assess the most probable 
outcomes. Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation 
provisions, this process is supported by valuations from professional 
external advisors to support provision levels. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of 
claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24. In order to 
assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its 
brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately 
factored in to the provision for known claims. 
 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out 
in note 27. The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a global 
professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, 
to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these 
estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Group’s particular 
circumstances. Management also benchmark these assumptions on a 
periodic basis with other professional advisors such as 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Impairment testing 
IFRS require management to review for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable. In 
addition the measurement and impairment reviews of indefinite life 
intangible assets requires estimation of the net present value of future 
cashflows including: 
• Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate  
to each business 
• Future growth rates 
• Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required 
• The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors 
appropriate to the Group 
No significant impairments arose in the current year. The considerations 
applied in the review for impairment of goodwill balances are detailed in 
note 13. 
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving 
estimations (as detailed above), that the directors have made in the 
process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements: 
Exceptional operating costs 
In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating costs on the 
face of the income statement, material items of revenue or expense 
which, because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the 
events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better 
understanding of financial performance. The determination of whether 
items merit treatment as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a 
matter of judgement. 
Accounting for the rail pension schemes 
The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit 
pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is 
partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of 
these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the 
pension schemes operated by most businesses the RPS is a shared cost 
scheme which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% 
employee. The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a 
‘franchise adjustment’, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits 
from future contributions, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus 
projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be 
required to fund or benefit from. 
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
 
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Contract and franchise accounting 
The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of 
privatisation and the relationships between them is governed by a number 
of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and 
train operating companies. These contracts include detailed performance 
regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating 
to the attribution of delays. The processes for attribution, whilst well 
understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to 
resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.  
The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to performance 
regimes and contractual obligations relating to operating delays caused by 
Network Rail, or caused by our own operating companies. This process 
can be based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or, 
in certain circumstances based on management’s view of the most likely 
outcome of individual claims. The Group has significant internal expertise 
to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and the issues 
relating to delay attribution to enable management to assess the most 
probable outcomes, nonetheless significant judgements are required, 
which can have material impacts on the financial statements.  
Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a 
continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable carrying 
value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and other 
contracts. Regular reviews are performed on the expected outcome of 
these arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating 
to the expected level of revenues and costs. Contract and franchise 
accounting is specific to the rail business disclosed in the segmental 
analysis in note 3. 
Measurement of franchise commitments 
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation 
provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims 
from other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24. Significant 
elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation of 
franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements. The Group has 
significant internal expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the 
agreements and to enable management to assess the most probable 
outcomes. Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation 
provisions, this process is supported by valuations from professional 
external advisors to support provision levels. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of 
claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24. In order to 
assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its 
brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately 
factored in to the provision for known claims. 
 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out 
in note 27. The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a global 
professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, 
to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these 
estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Group’s particular 
circumstances. Management also benchmark these assumptions on a 
periodic basis with other professional advisors such as 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Impairment testing 
IFRS require management to review for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable. In 
addition the measurement and impairment reviews of indefinite life 
intangible assets requires estimation of the net present value of future 
cashflows including: 
• Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate  
to each business 
• Future growth rates 
• Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required 
• The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors 
appropriate to the Group 
No significant impairments arose in the current year. The considerations 
applied in the review for impairment of goodwill balances are detailed in 
note 13. 
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving 
estimations (as detailed above), that the directors have made in the 
process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements: 
Exceptional operating costs 
In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating costs on the 
face of the income statement, material items of revenue or expense 
which, because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the 
events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better 
understanding of financial performance. The determination of whether 
items merit treatment as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a 
matter of judgement. 
Accounting for the rail pension schemes 
The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit 
pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is 
partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of 
these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the 
pension schemes operated by most businesses the RPS is a shared cost 
scheme which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% 
employee. The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a 
‘franchise adjustment’, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits 
from future contributions, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus 
projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be 
required to fund or benefit from. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of 
compliance with IFRSs 
The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
(the Group) for the year ended 2 July 2016 were authorised for issue by 
the Board of directors on 8 September 2016 and the balance sheet was 
signed on the Board’s behalf by Andrew Allner and Patrick Butcher. The  
Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, 
domiciled and has its registered office in England and Wales. The Group’s 
ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it  
is not under the control of any single shareholder. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 2 July 2016, and 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.  
The Group is required to comply with IFRS’s under IAS 1 Presentation of 
Financial Statements, except in extremely rare circumstances where 
management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it 
would conflict with the objective to ‘present fairly’ its financial statements. 
On that basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 
Employee Benefits (revised) and has accounted for its contractual but not 
legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS) under the terms 
of its UK rail franchise agreements. Details of the background and rationale 
for this departure are provided in note 27.  
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as 
disclosed in detail on page 106. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements. New accounting standards 
and interpretations which require adoption in future years have also 
been listed and our current view of the impact they will have on 
financial reporting. 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the fair value of financial instruments. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling  
and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 
(£0.1m) except when otherwise indicated. 
As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart from the 
requirements of IAS 19 (revised) so as to present fairly its financial 
performance, position and cashflows in respect of its obligation for 
the RPS. 
New standards 
The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first 
time for the financial year ending 2 July 2016: 
• IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (amendment) 
• Annual Improvements to IFRS’s 2010-2012 Cycle 
• Annual Improvements to IFRS’s 2011-2013 Cycle 
Adoption of these new standards and interpretations had no material 
impact on the financial position or reported performance of the Group.  
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements  
of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 2 July 2016. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred out of the Group. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared for the same 
reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent 
accounting policies. All intra-group balances and transactions, including 
unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been 
eliminated in full. 
Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held by  
the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented 
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from  
shareholders’ equity. 
Joint operations represent the 50% equity interest held by the Group in 
repsect of On Track Retail Limited, and are currently immaterial. 
Joint arrangements 
A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or more 
parties have joint control and rights to the net assets. Joint control is the 
contractually agreed sharing of control, which exists only when decisions 
about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties 
sharing control. Interest in joint arrangements are accounted for as either a 
joint venture or a joint operation in accordance with IFRS 11 ‘Joint 
Arrangements’.  
A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture when the Group, 
along with other parties have joint control and rights to the net assets of 
the arrangement. Joint ventures are equity accounted in accordance with 
IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ (revised). A joint 
arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation when the Group, along 
with other parties have joint control of the arrangement, rights to the 
assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Joint 
operations are accounted for by including the Group’s share of the assets, 
liabilities, income and expense on a line by line basis. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income  
will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured. Revenue  
is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, 
excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.  
Rendering of services 
The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger 
transport and rail passenger transport. 
Bus revenue comprises contractual income from Transport for London 
(‘TfL’) in London bus and amounts receivable generated from ticket sales 
and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport 
authorities.  
Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of 
route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the 
income allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of 
passenger receipts and other related services such as rolling stock 
maintenance and commission on tickets sold. In addition, franchise subsidy 
receipts from the DfT and local Passenger Transport Executives (PTEs) 
are treated as revenue, whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT 
are recognised in operating costs. In relation to the GTR franchise, 
passenger revenue is collected and remitted to the DfT net of 
management charges payable by DfT as revenue. 
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the 
customer’s journey or for other services based on the proportion of 
services provided. The attributable share of season ticket or travel card 
income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement 
over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card. 
Rental income 
Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and 
subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access. It is accounted 
for on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Profit and revenue sharing/support agreements 
The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements 
with the DfT. An accrual is made within amounts payable to central 
government for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts 
accrued at the balance sheet date. Payments are charged to 
operating costs. 
Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years  
of a franchise. Receipts are shown in revenue. 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on 
transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in 
value. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually. 
Depreciation is charged on all addtions to, or disposals of, depreciating 
assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over its expected useful life 
as follows: 
Leasehold land and buildings  The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings   Over 50 to 100 years 
Bus vehicles   Over 8 to 15 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Any impairment in 
value is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is 
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching 
conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense 
item, it is recognised in operating costs within the income statement over 
the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is 
intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, 
value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the 
income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset. 
Franchise bid costs 
A key part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and 
securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK. All 
franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are 
treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate 
outcome of the bid. Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after 
achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are 
capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the 
franchise/franchise extension. 
Share based payment transactions 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair 
value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing mode l. In granting equity-settled options, 
conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of 
The Go-Ahead Group plc (market condit ions); conditions not related to 
performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance conditions (a 
vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the 
period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting 
date reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and 
the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. This includes any 
award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or 
the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting 
condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-
settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is 
recognised immediately.  
Exceptional operating costs 
The Group presents as exceptional operating costs items on the face of 
the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, 
because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events 
giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better 
understanding of financial performance. 
Finance revenue 
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair 
value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. 
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any 
gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other de-
recognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement. 
Leases 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, 
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with  
a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over  
the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase 
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts  
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital  
repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease 
incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted 
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial 
statements. It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in  
a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of  
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit  
or loss; and 
• In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future  
and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred  
income tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets  
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised in 
the income statement. 
  
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on 
transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in 
value. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually. 
Depreciation is charged on all addtions to, or disposals of, depreciating 
assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over its expected useful life 
as follows: 
Leasehold land and buildings  The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings   Over 50 to 100 years 
Bus vehicles   Over 8 to 15 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Any impairment in 
value is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is 
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching 
conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense 
item, it is recognised in operating costs within the income statement over 
the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is 
intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, 
value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the 
income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset. 
Franchise bid costs 
A key part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and 
securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK. All 
franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are 
treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate 
outcome of the bid. Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after 
achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are 
capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the 
franchise/franchise extension. 
Share based payment transactions 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair 
value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing mode l. In granting equity-settled options, 
conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of 
The Go-Ahead Group plc (market condit ions); conditions not related to 
performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance conditions (a 
vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the 
period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting 
date reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and 
the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. This includes any 
award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or 
the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting 
condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-
settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is 
recognised immediately.  
Exceptional operating costs 
The Group presents as exceptional operating costs items on the face of 
the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, 
because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events 
giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better 
understanding of financial performance. 
Finance revenue 
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair 
value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. 
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any 
gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other de-
recognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement. 
Leases 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, 
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with  
a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over  
the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase 
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts  
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital  
repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease 
incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted 
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial 
statements. It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in  
a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of  
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit  
or loss; and 
• In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future  
and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred  
income tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets  
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised in 
the income statement. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 
Software 
Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an 
intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment  
in value. Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over  
its expected useful life of three to five years. 
Franchise assets 
Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require the 
Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability that exists at 
that point in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair 
value of the related net pension deficit that the Group expects to fund 
during the franchise term. When a pension deficit exists at the start of the 
franchise, a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in 
acquiring the right to operate the franchise. If a pension surplus exists at 
the start of the franchise, then a corresponding deferred income balance is 
recognised, representing a government grant. The intangible asset or 
deferred income balance is amortised through the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the franchise.  
The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the 
end of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in 
other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations (revised) using the acquisition method. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, 
measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-
controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of non-
controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction 
basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in 
administrative expenses. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and 
liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in 
accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and 
pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation 
of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the  
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset  
or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit and loss. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate  
of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the 
amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the 
business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value 
of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the 
net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed  
in exchange for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as  
the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition 
remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the 
business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. 
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or 
separability criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent 
liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-
date fair value can be measured reliably. 
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest  
(and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 
acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business 
acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated 
to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating 
units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of 
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those 
units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall 
represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an 
operating segment before aggregation. 
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation 
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when 
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of 
in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation 
disposed of and the portion of th e cash-generating unit retained. 
Customer contracts 
Customer contracts relate to the value attributed to contracts and 
relationships purchased as part of the Group’s acquisitions. The value is 
based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition. 
Customer contracts have a residual value of £nil and are amortised over 
the unexpired term. The amortisation expense is taken to the income 
statement as operating costs. 
Impairment of assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication  
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate  
of the asset’s recoverable amount, being the higher of the asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in 
use is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other 
assets or groups of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset.  
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount,  
the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.  
Impairment losses (including goodwill impairment) of continuing 
operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense 
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset. An 
assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any 
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer 
exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the 
asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. 
Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed. The reinstated amount 
cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in 
future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, on a 
systematic basis less any residual value, over its remaining useful life. 
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower  
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets are 
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through  
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is 
available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be 
committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition  
as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. 
Inventories 
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete and slow 
moving items. Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in 
bringing the items to their present location and condition. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank 
and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.  
Financial assets and derivatives 
The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price 
fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with 
interest rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and 
subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Financial 
assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, 
in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or 
loss, directly attributable transaction costs.  
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and 
effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. When the cashflow hedge results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that 
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset 
or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income 
statement as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which 
point it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying 
amount of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Fair value measurement 
The Group measures financial instruments (derivatives) and non-financial 
assets at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial 
instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 23. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either: 
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market  
for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a 
market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the 
asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the 
financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole: 
• Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable 
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on  
a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on 
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole) at the end of each reporting period. 
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values  
of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-
assessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the 
Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing 
the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other 
relevant documents. 
The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and 
liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change  
is reasonable. 
When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit 
committee. This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in 
the valuations. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and 
risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as  
explained above. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate of the amount can be made. If the effect is material, expected 
future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed,  
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when 
recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is 
presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the 
discount is recognised as a finance cost. 
Uninsured liabilities 
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public 
liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide 
individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the 
excess limits. A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to 
settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.  
  
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank 
and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.  
Financial assets and derivatives 
The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price 
fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with 
interest rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and 
subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Financial 
assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, 
in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or 
loss, directly attributable transaction costs.  
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and 
effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. When the cashflow hedge results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that 
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset 
or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income 
statement as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which 
point it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying 
amount of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Fair value measurement 
The Group measures financial instruments (derivatives) and non-financial 
assets at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial 
instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 23. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either: 
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market  
for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a 
market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the 
asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the 
financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole: 
• Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable 
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on  
a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on 
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole) at the end of each reporting period. 
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values  
of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-
assessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the 
Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing 
the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other 
relevant documents. 
The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and 
liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change  
is reasonable. 
When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit 
committee. This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in 
the valuations. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and 
risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as  
explained above. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate of the amount can be made. If the effect is material, expected 
future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed,  
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when 
recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is 
presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the 
discount is recognised as a finance cost. 
Uninsured liabilities 
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public 
liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide 
individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the 
excess limits. A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to 
settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.  
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate 
professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected 
settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that 
will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet 
date but that have not yet been reported to the Group by the insurer.  
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted 
from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are also 
recognised in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own shares. 
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s 
shares is transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined  
benefit and defined contribution. The costs of these are recognised in  
the income statement. As discussed below, the Group has invoked the 
provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed 
from the requirements of IAS 19 (revised) in respect of the Rail Pension 
Schemes (RPS). 
Bus schemes 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is 
determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit 
method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to 
determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to 
determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on 
actuarial advice. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to 
the net defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in  
the income statement within finance costs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet 
comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate 
bonds), less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to 
be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in 
the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement 
(eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment 
(reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the 
scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the 
obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are charged  
to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due. 
Rail schemes 
The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit 
scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is partitioned 
into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these 
schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the 
pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost 
scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 
40% employee. A liability or asset is recognised in line with other defined 
benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise 
adjustment so that the net liability or asset (including as appropriate the 
impact of any minimum funding requirements) represents the deficit or 
surplus that the Group expects to fund or benefit from during the 
franchise term. This represents a departure from IAS 19 (revised) so as to 
present fairly the Group’s financial performance, position and cashflow in 
respect of its obligations for the RPS. Please refer to note 27 ‘Retirement 
benefit obligations’ for further details. 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of 
these financial statements: 
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)  
Effective date 
(periods beginning on or after)
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 – 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure Initiative (amendment) 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture – Bearer Plants (amendment) 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation (amendment) 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (amendment) 1 January 2016
IFRS 10 Consolidated Fianancial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments 
in Associates – Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (amendment) 1 January 2016
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements – Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (amendment) 1 January 2016
IAS 12 Income Taxes – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Assets for Unreaslised Losses (amendment) 1 January 2017
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 
IFRS 16 Leases will have a significant impact on the Group’s balance sheet and income statement as operating leases are reclassified as balance sheet 
liabilities. Work will commence during 2016/17 to quantify the impact ahead of implementing the standard in the year ended June 2020. 
The Group does not expect IFRS 15 – Revenue Recognition to have a material impact on the Group when implemented in the year ended June 2019 
on the basis that in both our rail and bus divisions our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction 
prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned. 
The directors do not anticipate adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Segmental analysis 
The Group’s businesses are managed on a divisional basis. Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.  
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail. Operating segments within 
those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: 
The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London. 
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted services in London. 
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail 
franchises: Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR. The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each 
operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with 
DfT. Each company targets similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision 
maker, considered to be the Group Chief Executive. The registered office of Keolis (UK) Limited is in England and Wales. 
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and 
liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss 
excluding amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties.  
The following tables present information regarding the Group’s reportable segments for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the year ended 27 June 2015. 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6
Inter-segment revenue (27.6) (19.6) (47.2) (13.1) (60.3)
Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional operating costs) (326.0) (444.0) (770.0) (2,470.9) (3,240.9)
Segment profit – Group operating profit (before amortisation,  
goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs)  49.7 43.6 93.3 27.1 120.4
Intangible amortisation (1.2) (0.9) (2.1) (0.9) (3.0)
Group operating profit  48.5 42.7 91.2 26.2 117.4
Net finance costs  (17.6)
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests  99.8
Tax expense  (18.5)
Profit for the year   81.3
 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
operations
£m
Other segment information  
Capital expenditure:   
– Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9
– Acquisitions  1.2 – 1.2 – 1.2
– Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 – 1.1
Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2
At 2 July 2016, there were non-current assets included within London bus of £1.2m (2015: £nil) relating to operations in Singapore. The operations in 
Singapore will commence trading in September 2016 and the revenue generated during the year to 2 July 2016 was £nil (2015: £nil). For the year 
ending 1 July 2017 onwards, operations in Singapore will be disclosed as a separate reportable segment. 
We have two major customers which individually contribute more than 10% of the Group revenue, one of which contributes £1,076.6m (2015: 
£363.0m) and the other contributes £481.5m (2015: £456.5m). 
  
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Segmental analysis 
The Group’s businesses are managed on a divisional basis. Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.  
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail. Operating segments within 
those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: 
The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London. 
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted services in London. 
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail 
franchises: Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR. The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each 
operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with 
DfT. Each company targets similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision 
maker, considered to be the Group Chief Executive. The registered office of Keolis (UK) Limited is in England and Wales. 
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and 
liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss 
excluding amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties.  
The following tables present information regarding the Group’s reportable segments for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the year ended 27 June 2015. 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6
Inter-segment revenue (27.6) (19.6) (47.2) (13.1) (60.3)
Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional operating costs) (326.0) (444.0) (770.0) (2,470.9) (3,240.9)
Segment profit – Group operating profit (before amortisation,  
goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs)  49.7 43.6 93.3 27.1 120.4
Intangible amortisation (1.2) (0.9) (2.1) (0.9) (3.0)
Group operating profit  48.5 42.7 91.2 26.2 117.4
Net finance costs  (17.6)
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests  99.8
Tax expense  (18.5)
Profit for the year   81.3
 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
operations
£m
Other segment information  
Capital expenditure:   
– Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9
– Acquisitions  1.2 – 1.2 – 1.2
– Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 – 1.1
Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2
At 2 July 2016, there were non-current assets included within London bus of £1.2m (2015: £nil) relating to operations in Singapore. The operations in 
Singapore will commence trading in September 2016 and the revenue generated during the year to 2 July 2016 was £nil (2015: £nil). For the year 
ending 1 July 2017 onwards, operations in Singapore will be disclosed as a separate reportable segment. 
We have two major customers which individually contribute more than 10% of the Group revenue, one of which contributes £1,076.6m (2015: 
£363.0m) and the other contributes £481.5m (2015: £456.5m). 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 384.8 469.7 854.5 2,414.0 3,268.5
Inter-segment revenue (24.9) (11.8) (36.7) (16.6) (53.3)
Group revenue 359.9 457.9 817.8 2,397.4 3,215.2
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional operating costs) (313.2) (415.6) (728.8) (2,371.7) (3,100.5)
Segment profit – Group operating profit (before amortisation,  
goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs)  46.7 42.3 89.0 25.7 114.7
Intangible amortisation (1.6) (1.8) (3.4) (0.8) (4.2)
Goodwill impairment (4.9) – (4.9) – (4.9)
Exceptional operating costs – – – (8.8) (8.8)
Group operating profit  40.2 40.5 80.7 16.1 96.8
Net finance costs  (18.1)
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests  78.7
Tax expense  (19.4)
Profit for the year   59.3
 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
operations
£m
Other segment information  
Capital expenditure:   
– Additions 28.0 8.1 36.1 6.2 42.3
– Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 – 0.4 6.9 7.3
– Intangible assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 4.9 6.1
Depreciation 27.5 18.2 45.7 24.8 70.5
4. Group revenue 
This note provides an analysis of Group revenue. For accounting policies see ‘Revenue recognition’, ‘Rendering of services’, ‘Rental income’ and ‘Profit  
and revenue sharing/support agreements’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Rendering of services 3,498.5 3,208.6
Rental income 22.8 10.0
GTR franchise revenue adjustment (276.0) (120.9)
Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 116.0 117.5
Group revenue 3,361.3 3,215.2
Finance revenue 3.2 2.4
Total Group revenue 3,364.5 3,217.6
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
5. Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating items) 
Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs. For accounting policies see ‘Profit and revenue sharing/support 
agreements’, ‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Government grants’ and ‘Franchise bid costs’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employee costs (note 6) 1,215.5 1,079.6
Operating lease payments 
– bus vehicles 15.4 16.6
– non-rail properties 3.3 2.6
– other non-rail – 0.1
– rail rolling stock 427.7 410.9
– other rail 112.2 88.0
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges)
1
 558.6 518.2
– rail access charges 519.2 489.9
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense
2
 1,077.8 1,008.1
  
DfT Franchise agreement payments  38.2 228.6
Other operating income (17.5) (24.8)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
– owned assets 54.9 69.4
– leased assets 0.3 1.1
Total depreciation expense 55.2 70.5
  
Auditors’ remuneration 
– audit of parent financial statements (Deloitte/EY) 0.1 0.1
– audit of subsidiary financial statements (Deloitte/EY) 0.5 0.4
– audit of subsidiary financial statements (Grant Thornton) – –
Total audit fees 0.6 0.5
– taxation compliance services  0.1 0.1
– taxation advisory services – –
– other non-audit 0.1 0.1
Total non-audit fees  0.2 0.2
Total auditors’ remuneration 0.8 0.7
  
Trade receivables not recovered 0.8 0.3
Energy costs 
– bus fuel 116.8 118.4
– rail diesel fuel 9.8 9.6
– rail electricity (EC4T) 122.3 109.5
– cost of site energy 15.3 15.2
Total energy costs 264.2 252.7
  
Government grants (4.1) (8.0)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 (0.4)
Profit on sale of assets held for sale (0.7) –
Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 5.7 10.7
DfT profit share 43.7 24.0
Other operating costs  560.6 458.5
Total operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs) 3,240.9 3,100.5
1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges) are made up of minimum lease payments of £574.2m (2015: £531.7m), net of 
sublease payments of £15.6m (2015: £13.5m) relating to other rail leases. 
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of £1,093.4m (2015: £1,021.6m), net of sublease payments of £15.6m  
(2015: £13.5m) relating to other rail leases. 
During the year, £1.4m (2015: £1.5m) was also paid to other ‘Big 4’ accounting firms for a variety of services. 
The Group received net receipts from Network Rail during the year of £38.1m (2015: £88.0m). 
  
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
5. Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating items) 
Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs. For accounting policies see ‘Profit and revenue sharing/support 
agreements’, ‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Government grants’ and ‘Franchise bid costs’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employee costs (note 6) 1,215.5 1,079.6
Operating lease payments 
– bus vehicles 15.4 16.6
– non-rail properties 3.3 2.6
– other non-rail – 0.1
– rail rolling stock 427.7 410.9
– other rail 112.2 88.0
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges)
1
 558.6 518.2
– rail access charges 519.2 489.9
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense
2
 1,077.8 1,008.1
  
DfT Franchise agreement payments  38.2 228.6
Other operating income (17.5) (24.8)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
– owned assets 54.9 69.4
– leased assets 0.3 1.1
Total depreciation expense 55.2 70.5
  
Auditors’ remuneration 
– audit of parent financial statements (Deloitte/EY) 0.1 0.1
– audit of subsidiary financial statements (Deloitte/EY) 0.5 0.4
– audit of subsidiary financial statements (Grant Thornton) – –
Total audit fees 0.6 0.5
– taxation compliance services  0.1 0.1
– taxation advisory services – –
– other non-audit 0.1 0.1
Total non-audit fees  0.2 0.2
Total auditors’ remuneration 0.8 0.7
  
Trade receivables not recovered 0.8 0.3
Energy costs 
– bus fuel 116.8 118.4
– rail diesel fuel 9.8 9.6
– rail electricity (EC4T) 122.3 109.5
– cost of site energy 15.3 15.2
Total energy costs 264.2 252.7
  
Government grants (4.1) (8.0)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 (0.4)
Profit on sale of assets held for sale (0.7) –
Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 5.7 10.7
DfT profit share 43.7 24.0
Other operating costs  560.6 458.5
Total operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs) 3,240.9 3,100.5
1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges) are made up of minimum lease payments of £574.2m (2015: £531.7m), net of 
sublease payments of £15.6m (2015: £13.5m) relating to other rail leases. 
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of £1,093.4m (2015: £1,021.6m), net of sublease payments of £15.6m  
(2015: £13.5m) relating to other rail leases. 
During the year, £1.4m (2015: £1.5m) was also paid to other ‘Big 4’ accounting firms for a variety of services. 
The Group received net receipts from Network Rail during the year of £38.1m (2015: £88.0m). 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129 
6. Employee costs 
This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges. We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors  
and employees. A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date  
of grant. The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year. For accounting policies see ‘Share based payment 
transactions’ in note 2. 
 
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 1,017.6 915.4
Social security costs 92.2 80.5
Other pension costs 103.5 82.1
Share based payments charge 2.2 1.6
 1,215.5 1,079.6
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: 
 
 
2016 2015
Administration and supervision 3,007 2,964
Maintenance and engineering 2,597 2,651
Operations 21,962 20,545
 27,566 26,160
The information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013 is provided in the directors’ remuneration report.  
Sharesave scheme 
Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option 
scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (the Sharesave scheme) for employees of the Group and its 
operating companies.  
The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees (including executive directors) who have completed at least six months of 
continuous service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch. To take part, qualifying employees 
have to enter into a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of £5 to a 
maximum (not exceeding £500) specified by the Group at the time of invitation. For the February 2016 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set 
by the Group was £50. At the end of the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or 
take their full savings back. 
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the options were granted. The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, 
future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life. 
There are savings-related options at 2 July 2016 as follows: 
Scheme maturity 1 May 2019 1 May 2017
Option price (£) 19.11 17.34
No. of options unexercised at 2 July 2016 367,593 397,311
No. of options exercised during the year – 1,667
No. of options exercisable at 2 July 2016 ––
The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 2 July 2016 was £0.4m (2015: £0.3m). 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 
2016
No.
2016 
WAEP 
£ 
2015
No.
2015
WAEP
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34
Granted during the year 370,251 19.11 – –
Forfeited during the year (40,002) 17.46 (25,089) 17.34
Exercised during the year (1,667) 17.34 (164) 17.34
Outstanding at the end of the year 764,904 18.19 436,322 17.34
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
6. Employee costs continued 
The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was £17.34 (2015: £17.34). 
At the year end, no options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £18.19 (2015: £17.34). 
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.79 years (2015: 1.83 years).  
Long Term Incentive Plans 
The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP). The LTIP provides for executive directors and 
certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of 
three years. Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further details of the LTIP. 
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 2 July 2016 was £0.5m (2015: £0.4m). 
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were: 
 
2016
% per annum
2015
% per annum
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
Future share price volatility 21.0 22.0
FTSE Mid-250 index comparator  
Future share price volatility 20.0 20.0
Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £20.82 (2015: £23.49). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 
 2016 2015
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 181,302 259,145
Granted during the year 32,618 34,996
Forfeited during the year (33,157) (36,350)
Exercised during the year (96,348) (76,489)
Outstanding at the end of the year 84,415 181,302
At the year end, 27,415 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £19.78 (2015: £26.98).  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.03 years (2015: 0.66 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised 
was £25.44 (2015: £24.11). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group 
conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets. The shares are deferred over a three year period. Refer to the directors’ remuneration 
report for further details of the DSBP. 
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 2 July 2016 was £1.3m (2015: £0.9m). 
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions. Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at  
the date of grant. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £25.97 (2015: £25.71). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 
 2016 2015
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 136,144 56,086
Granted during the year 62,047 87,320
Forfeited during the year (18,341) (5,270)
Exercised during the year (14,204) (1,992)
Outstanding at the end of the year 165,646 136,144
At the year end, 30,327 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £19.78 (2015: £26.98). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.18 years (2015: 1.54 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised  
was £25.57 (2015: £23.96). 
Share incentive plans 
The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP). The SIP is open to all Group employees (including executive directors) who have completed at least six months’ service with a Group company at 
the date they are invited to participate in the plan. 
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees (free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares), 
although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only. Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between  
£10 and £150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price. Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are 
available to the Group and employees. 
  
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
6. Employee costs continued 
The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was £17.34 (2015: £17.34). 
At the year end, no options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £18.19 (2015: £17.34). 
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.79 years (2015: 1.83 years).  
Long Term Incentive Plans 
The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP). The LTIP provides for executive directors and 
certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of 
three years. Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further details of the LTIP. 
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 2 July 2016 was £0.5m (2015: £0.4m). 
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were: 
 
2016
% per annum
2015
% per annum
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
Future share price volatility 21.0 22.0
FTSE Mid-250 index comparator  
Future share price volatility 20.0 20.0
Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £20.82 (2015: £23.49). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 
 2016 2015
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 181,302 259,145
Granted during the year 32,618 34,996
Forfeited during the year (33,157) (36,350)
Exercised during the year (96,348) (76,489)
Outstanding at the end of the year 84,415 181,302
At the year end, 27,415 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £19.78 (2015: £26.98).  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.03 years (2015: 0.66 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised 
was £25.44 (2015: £24.11). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group 
conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets. The shares are deferred over a three year period. Refer to the directors’ remuneration 
report for further details of the DSBP. 
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 2 July 2016 was £1.3m (2015: £0.9m). 
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions. Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at  
the date of grant. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £25.97 (2015: £25.71). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 
 2016 2015
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 136,144 56,086
Granted during the year 62,047 87,320
Forfeited during the year (18,341) (5,270)
Exercised during the year (14,204) (1,992)
Outstanding at the end of the year 165,646 136,144
At the year end, 30,327 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £19.78 (2015: £26.98). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.18 years (2015: 1.54 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised  
was £25.57 (2015: £23.96). 
Share incentive plans 
The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP). The SIP is open to all Group employees (including executive directors) who have completed at least six months’ service with a Group company at 
the date they are invited to participate in the plan. 
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees (free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares), 
although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only. Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between  
£10 and £150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price. Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are 
available to the Group and employees. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131 
7. Exceptional operating items 
This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period. For accounting policies see 
‘Exceptional operating items’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Rail restructuring costs – (8.8)
Total exceptional operating costs – (8.8)
Year ended 2 July 2016 
There were no exceptional operating items during the year ended 2 July 2016. 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Total exceptional operating costs in the year of £8.8m related to rail restructuring costs of the GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Great 
Northern together with Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure. 
8. Finance revenue and costs 
Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits. Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans. For 
accounting policies see ‘Finance revenue’ and ‘Interest-bearings loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 3.2 2.4
Finance revenue 3.2 2.4
 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (2.0) (2.5)
Interest payable on £200m sterling 7.5 year bond (11.3) (11.2)
Other interest payable (2.2) (2.8)
Unwinding of discounting on provisions (2.4) (1.4)
Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (0.8) (0.2)
Interest on net pension liability (2.1) (2.4)
Finance costs (20.8) (20.5)
9. Taxation 
This note explains how our Group tax charge arises. The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax assets and liabilities held across the 
Group. For accounting policies see ‘Taxation’ in note 2. 
The Group tax policy can be found at www.go-ahead.com. 
a. Tax recognised in the inco me statement and in equity 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax charge 28.5 25.0
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 (0.4)
 29.1 24.6
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% (2015: 20%) (7.1) (4.8)
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 (0.4)
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction (3.7) –
Tax reported in consolidated income statement  18.5 19.4
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
9. Taxation continued 
Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Tax on remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 18.5 4.9
Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 2.1 (4.0)
Deferred tax on share based payments (taken directly to equity) 0.5 (0.3)
Corporation tax on share based payments (taken directly to equity) (0.3) –
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 –
Tax reported outside of profit or loss 22.0 0.6
b. Reconciliation 
A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Group’s 
effective tax rate for the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation  99.8 78.7
 
At United Kingdom tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.75%) 20.0 16.3
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 (0.4)
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes  0.8 3.7
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 (0.4)
Effect of the difference between current year corporation tax and deferred tax rates 0.6 0.2
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction (3.7) –
Tax reported in consolidated income statement 18.5 19.4
Effective tax rate 18.5% 24.7%
The underlying tax rate is the same as the effective tax rate for the year ended 2 July 2016 at 18.5%. 
The underlying tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015 is 23.2%, as it excludes the impact of the goodwill impairment of £4.9m. 
The Group had subsidiary companies in Germany and Singapore during the year but neither generated any operating income. Costs incurred by these 
companies were either expensed in the UK without tax relief being claimed or were carried forward as prepayments without tax relief being claimed 
during the year. As such the Group was entirely taxable in the UK during the course of the financial year. 
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities 
A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax liability at start of year 14.9 10.6
Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 29.1 24.6
Corporation tax (taken directly to equity) (0.3) –
Paid in the year (24.8) (20.3)
Current tax liability at end of year 18.9 14.9
d. Deferred tax 
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred tax liability 
Accelerated capital allowances (28.4) (29.6)
Other temporary differences (8.4) (1.1)
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS (13.3) (15.4)
Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet (50.1) (46.1)
  
Deferred tax asset 
Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 11.9
Cashflow hedges 2.8 –
Share based payments 0.9 –
Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 4.2 11.9
The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available. 
The deferred tax liabilities and assets included in the balance sheet have been calculated using applicable enacted rates. 
Of the deferred tax liability, £1.6m (2015: £1.7m) is classed as current and £48.5m (2015: £44.4m) is classed as non-current. Of the deferred tax asset, 
£2.0m (2015: £nil) is classed as current and £2.2m (2015: £11.9m) as non-current. 
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
9. Taxation continued 
Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Tax on remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 18.5 4.9
Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 2.1 (4.0)
Deferred tax on share based payments (taken directly to equity) 0.5 (0.3)
Corporation tax on share based payments (taken directly to equity) (0.3) –
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 –
Tax reported outside of profit or loss 22.0 0.6
b. Reconciliation 
A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Group’s 
effective tax rate for the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation  99.8 78.7
 
At United Kingdom tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.75%) 20.0 16.3
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 (0.4)
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes  0.8 3.7
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 (0.4)
Effect of the difference between current year corporation tax and deferred tax rates 0.6 0.2
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction (3.7) –
Tax reported in consolidated income statement 18.5 19.4
Effective tax rate 18.5% 24.7%
The underlying tax rate is the same as the effective tax rate for the year ended 2 July 2016 at 18.5%. 
The underlying tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015 is 23.2%, as it excludes the impact of the goodwill impairment of £4.9m. 
The Group had subsidiary companies in Germany and Singapore during the year but neither generated any operating income. Costs incurred by these 
companies were either expensed in the UK without tax relief being claimed or were carried forward as prepayments without tax relief being claimed 
during the year. As such the Group was entirely taxable in the UK during the course of the financial year. 
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities 
A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax liability at start of year 14.9 10.6
Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 29.1 24.6
Corporation tax (taken directly to equity) (0.3) –
Paid in the year (24.8) (20.3)
Current tax liability at end of year 18.9 14.9
d. Deferred tax 
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred tax liability 
Accelerated capital allowances (28.4) (29.6)
Other temporary differences (8.4) (1.1)
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS (13.3) (15.4)
Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet (50.1) (46.1)
  
Deferred tax asset 
Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 11.9
Cashflow hedges 2.8 –
Share based payments 0.9 –
Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 4.2 11.9
The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available. 
The deferred tax liabilities and assets included in the balance sheet have been calculated using applicable enacted rates. 
Of the deferred tax liability, £1.6m (2015: £1.7m) is classed as current and £48.5m (2015: £44.4m) is classed as non-current. Of the deferred tax asset, 
£2.0m (2015: £nil) is classed as current and £2.2m (2015: £11.9m) as non-current. 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 
The movements in deferred tax in the income statement and other comprehensive income for the years ending 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are 
as follows: 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
 
At 27 June 
2015
£m
Recognised in 
income statement
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
£m
Recognised 
directly in equity 
£m 
Transfer 
categories
£m
At 2 July 
2016
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (29.6) 1.2 – – – (28.4)
Other temporary differences (1.1) (1.0) – – (6.3) (8.4)
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed 
cost on conversion to IFRS (15.4) 2.1
– – –
(13.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 8.3 (19.7) – – 0.5
Cashflow hedges –– (2.1) – 4.9 2.8
Share based payments –– – (0.5) 1.4 0.9
 (34.2) 10.6 (21.8) (0.5) – (45.9)
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
At 28 June 
2014
£m
Recognised in 
income statement
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
£m
Recognised  
directly in equity 
£m 
Transfer 
categories
£m
At 27 June 
2015
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (30.6) 1.0 – – – (29.6)
Other temporary differences (2.8) (2.6) 4.0 0.3 – (1.1)
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed 
cost on conversion to IFRS (17.3) 1.9
– – –
(15.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 4.9 (4.9) – – 11.9
 (38.8) 5.2 (0.9) 0.3 – (34.2)
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.2 (1.5)
Revaluation (0.6) (0.9)
Retirement benefit obligations (8.3) (4.9)
Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.4 2.9
Other temporary differences (0.8) (0.4)
 (7.1) (4.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 (0.4)
Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction (3.7) –
Deferred tax expense (10.6) (5.2)
The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. A rate of 20% therefore applies to the current tax charge arising 
during the year ended 2 July 2016. 
In addition to the change in rate of corporation tax identified above, further reductions in the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020 
were substantively enacted prior to the balance sheet date and have been applied to the Group’s deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date. 
An announcement in the 2016 Budget also noted the intention to amend the rate from 1 April 2020 to 17%. If the reduction to 17% had been enacted 
at the balance sheet date, the Group’s deferred tax liability would have reduced by £2.4m to £47.7m, and the deferred tax asset would have remained 
the same at £4.2m. 
10. Earnings per share  
Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year. This note also includes adjusted earnings per share, which shows a ‘normalised’ earnings per share 
following elimination of the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs, and the incremental effect 
of IAS 19 (revised). 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent  69.7 52.2
Consisting of: 
Adjusted earnings on continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent  94.7 78.0
Amortisation and goodwill impairment after taxation and non-controlling interests  (2.1) (8.0)
Exceptional operating costs after taxation and non-controlling interests  – (4.5)
IAS 19 (revised) after taxation and non-controlling interests  (22.9) (13.3)
Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent  69.7 52.2
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
10. Earnings per share continued 
 2016 2015
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 42,951 42,916
Dilutive potential share options (‘000) 247 754
Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 43,198 43,670
 
Earnings per share: 
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 162.3 121.6
Diluted earnings per share  161.4 119.5
Adjusted basic earnings per share  220.5 181.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  219.3 178.6
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP 
arrangements. 
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016. 
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the 
incremental effect of IAS 19 (revised) is shown below for each of the periods. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs 
and the incremental effect of IAS 19 (revised) in order to show a ‘normalised’ earnings per share, reflecting the underlying performance of the business.  
Adjusted earnings were £94.7m in the period (2015: £78.0m) resulting in adjusted earnings per share of 220.5p (2015: 181.8p). 
This is analysed as follows: 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment
£m
Exceptional 
operating costs 
£m 
IAS 19 (revised)
£m
Adjusted profit 
for the year
£m
Profit before taxation  99.8 3.0 – 39.1 141.9
Less: Taxation (18.5) (0.6) – (7.8) (26.9)
Less: Non-controlling interests (11.6) (0.3) – (8.4) (20.3)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 2.1 – 22.9 94.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  220.5
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  219.3
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment
£m
Exceptional 
operating costs 
£m 
IAS 19 (revised)
£m
Adjusted profit 
for the year
£m 
Profit before taxation  78.7 9.1 8.8 22.3 118.9
Less: Taxation (19.4) (0.9) (1.8) (4.6) (26.7)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.1) (0.2) (2.5) (4.4) (14.2)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 13.3 78.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  181.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  178.6
11. Dividends paid and proposed 
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3
Interim dividend for 2016: 28.33p per share (2015: 26.6p) 12.2 11.4
 39.4 36.7
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 2 July 2016) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share (2015: 63.4p) 29.0 27.2
134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
10. Earnings per share continued 
 2016 2015
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 42,951 42,916
Dilutive potential share options (‘000) 247 754
Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 43,198 43,670
 
Earnings per share: 
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 162.3 121.6
Diluted earnings per share  161.4 119.5
Adjusted basic earnings per share  220.5 181.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  219.3 178.6
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP 
arrangements. 
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016. 
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the 
incremental effect of IAS 19 (revised) is shown below for each of the periods. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs 
and the incremental effect of IAS 19 (revised) in order to show a ‘normalised’ earnings per share, reflecting the underlying performance of the business.  
Adjusted earnings were £94.7m in the period (2015: £78.0m) resulting in adjusted earnings per share of 220.5p (2015: 181.8p). 
This is analysed as follows: 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment
£m
Exceptional 
operating costs 
£m 
IAS 19 (revised)
£m
Adjusted profit 
for the year
£m
Profit before taxation  99.8 3.0 – 39.1 141.9
Less: Taxation (18.5) (0.6) – (7.8) (26.9)
Less: Non-controlling interests (11.6) (0.3) – (8.4) (20.3)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 2.1 – 22.9 94.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  220.5
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  219.3
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment
£m
Exceptional 
operating costs 
£m 
IAS 19 (revised)
£m
Adjusted profit 
for the year
£m 
Profit before taxation  78.7 9.1 8.8 22.3 118.9
Less: Taxation (19.4) (0.9) (1.8) (4.6) (26.7)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.1) (0.2) (2.5) (4.4) (14.2)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 13.3 78.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  181.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  178.6
11. Dividends paid and proposed 
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3
Interim dividend for 2016: 28.33p per share (2015: 26.6p) 12.2 11.4
 39.4 36.7
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 2 July 2016) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share (2015: 63.4p) 29.0 27.2
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 
12. Property, plant and equipment 
The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets. All assets (excluding 
freehold land) are depreciated over their useful economic lives. For accounting policies see ‘Property, plant and equipment’ in note 2.  
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Long term 
leasehold land 
and properties
£m
Short term 
leasehold land 
and properties
£m
Bus vehicles 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 28 June 2014 183.7 0.4 14.2 520.5 180.2 899.0
Additions 1.8 – – 31.2 9.3 42.3
Acquisitions and new rail franchises – – – 0.4 6.9 7.3
Disposals – – – (10.9) (6.8) (17.7)
Transfer of assets held for resale 0.2 – – – – 0.2
At 27 June 2015 185.7 0.4 14.2 541.2 189.6 931.1
Additions 13.4 – 0.5 78.4 21.6 113.9
Acquisitions  – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Disposals (0.2) – – (45.9) (2.0) (48.1)
Transfer categories – – – (2.1) 2.1 –
At 2 July 2016 198.9 0.4 14.7 572.8 211.3 998.1
  
Depreciation and impairment:  
At 28 June 2014 19.6 – 6.0 267.7 147.1 440.4
Charge for the year 9.2 – 1.4 39.9 20.0 70.5
Disposals – – – (10.6) (6.6) (17.2)
At 27 June 2015 28.8 – 7.4 297.0 160.5 493.7
Charge for the year 3.3 – 1.4 42.3 8.2 55.2
Disposals – – – (43.5) (1.6) (45.1)
Transfer categories – – – (0.8) 0.8 –
At 2 July 2016 32.1 – 8.8 295.0 167.9 503.8
  
Net book value:  
At 2 July 2016 166.8 0.4 5.9 277.8 43.4 494.3
At 27 June 2015 156.9 0.4 6.8 244.2 29.1 437.4
At 28 June 2014 164.1 0.4 8.2 252.8 33.1 458.6
The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Bus vehicles 2.7 1.3
Plant and equipment – 0.1
 2.7 1.4
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
13. Intangible assets 
The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. 
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies 
the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews. Software is amortised over its expected useful life. Franchise 
bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise/franchise extension. Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract. For further 
details see ‘Software’, ‘Franchise bid costs’, ‘Franchise assets’, ‘Business combinations and goodwill’, ‘Impairment of assets’ and ‘Customer contracts’ 
in note 2. 
 
Goodwill
£m
Software costs
£m
Franchise 
bid costs
£m
Rail franchise 
asset 
£m 
Customer 
contracts
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4
Additions – 3.8 2.3 – – 6.1
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5
Additions – 0.7 – – – 0.7
Acquisitions – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 July 2016 80.8 21.3 11.5 16.7 12.3 142.6
  
Amortisation and impairment:  
At 28 June 2014 – 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7
Charge for the year – 1.7 0.8 – 1.7 4.2
Impairment 4.9 – – – – 4.9
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8
Charge for the year – 1.5 0.6 – 0.9 3.0
At 2 July 2016 4.9 17.3 9.3 16.7 11.6 59.8
  
Net book value:  
At 2 July 2016 75.9 4.0 2.2 – 0.7 82.8
At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 – 1.2 84.7
At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 – 2.9 87.7
Software costs 
Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.  
Franchise bid costs 
A part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK. Directly attributable, incremental 
costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the 
life of the franchise/franchise extension. 
Rail franchise asset 
This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise 
assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise. The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.  
Customer contracts 
This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Group’s acquisitions. The value is calculated based  
on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Group’s business 
operations. The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Go South Coast 28.6 28.6
Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7
Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0
Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5
Go North East 2.7 2.7
Konectbus 3.6 3.6
Thames Travel 2.7 2.7
Carousel 2.1 2.1
 75.9 75.9
  
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
13. Intangible assets 
The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. 
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies 
the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews. Software is amortised over its expected useful life. Franchise 
bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise/franchise extension. Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract. For further 
details see ‘Software’, ‘Franchise bid costs’, ‘Franchise assets’, ‘Business combinations and goodwill’, ‘Impairment of assets’ and ‘Customer contracts’ 
in note 2. 
 
Goodwill
£m
Software costs
£m
Franchise 
bid costs
£m
Rail franchise 
asset 
£m 
Customer 
contracts
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4
Additions – 3.8 2.3 – – 6.1
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5
Additions – 0.7 – – – 0.7
Acquisitions – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 July 2016 80.8 21.3 11.5 16.7 12.3 142.6
  
Amortisation and impairment:  
At 28 June 2014 – 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7
Charge for the year – 1.7 0.8 – 1.7 4.2
Impairment 4.9 – – – – 4.9
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8
Charge for the year – 1.5 0.6 – 0.9 3.0
At 2 July 2016 4.9 17.3 9.3 16.7 11.6 59.8
  
Net book value:  
At 2 July 2016 75.9 4.0 2.2 – 0.7 82.8
At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 – 1.2 84.7
At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 – 2.9 87.7
Software costs 
Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.  
Franchise bid costs 
A part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK. Directly attributable, incremental 
costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the 
life of the franchise/franchise extension. 
Rail franchise asset 
This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise 
assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise. The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.  
Customer contracts 
This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Group’s acquisitions. The value is calculated based  
on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Group’s business 
operations. The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Go South Coast 28.6 28.6
Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7
Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0
Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5
Go North East 2.7 2.7
Konectbus 3.6 3.6
Thames Travel 2.7 2.7
Carousel 2.1 2.1
 75.9 75.9
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 
The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections 
based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an 
appropriate period. The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams. Growth has 
been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 3.0% 
which reflects the directors’ view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses. 
The Group’s weighted average cost of capital has been initially calculated as 5.4% (2015: 8.8%). Given the current low weighted average cost of capital 
the calculation of value in use has been initially derived based on the internal rate of return that the Group uses to appraise investments, currently 8.0%, 
to identify any goodwill balances requiring further consideration and review. The economic conditions that the cash-generating units operate in are 
considered similar enough, primarily being UK based, to use the same discount rate. 
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate 
used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period. The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, employee costs and general 
overheads. These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.  The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with 
the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts. 
A 0.5% increase in WACC or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely sensitivities that could impact recoverable amounts. These 
sensitivities would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable amount. 
14. Business combinations 
This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods. For accounting policies see ‘Business combinations and goodwill’ 
and ‘Customer contracts’ in note 2. 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
On 13 October 2015, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations 
and 13 buses from Excelsior Coaches Limited and Excelsior Transport Limited for a cash consideration of £0.5m. 
Net assets at date of acquisition: 
Total acquisitions 
– Fair value to 
Group
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.2
Intangible assets – customer contracts 0.4
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1.1)
Net assets 0.5
 
Cash 0.5
Total consideration 0.5
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise finance leases and hire purchase commitments. 
Acquisition costs of less than £0.1m have been expensed through operating costs. 
From the date of acquisition in the period, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of £0.1m and revenue of £2.1m. Had the acquisition been 
completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Group’s operating profit would have been £0.2m and the impact on revenue would 
have been £2.9m. 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
On 8 December 2014, Plymouth Citybus Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations  
and nine buses from Western Greyhound Limited for a cash consideration of £0.4m. 
Net assets at date of acquisition: 
Total acquisitions 
– Fair value to 
Group 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.4
Intangible assets – customer contracts –
 0.4
 
Cash 0.4
Total consideration 0.4
Acquisition costs of less than £0.1m have been expensed through operating costs. 
From the date of acquisition in the year ended 27 June 2015, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of £nil and revenue of £0.9m. Had the 
acquisition been completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Group’s operating profit would have been £nil and the impact on 
revenue would have been £1.5m. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
15. Assets classified as held for sale 
This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale. The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally 
through a sale rather than through continuing use. For accounting policies see ‘Non-current assets held for sale’ in note 2. 
At 2 July 2016, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of £0.8m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and are included in the 
regional bus segment. 
During the year ended 2 July 2016, assets held for sale were sold for a profit of £0.7m, which is included within operating costs in the income statement. 
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £6.0m, consisting of £2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and £3.5m of 
bus vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.  
16. Inventories 
Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products. For accounting policies see ‘Inventories’  
in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Raw materials and consumables 18.3 17.9
The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial. 
17. Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in 
advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable. Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 
Trade receivables 178.1 102.0
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (1.7) (1.1)
Trade receivables – net 176.4 100.9
Other receivables 32.7 66.5
Prepayments 48.5 18.8
Accrued income 45.4 23.0
Receivable from central government 34.0 50.9
 337.0 260.1
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Other receivables 1.6 0.8
As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Total 
£m 
Neither past due 
nor impaired
£m
Less than 30 days
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days 
£m 
90-120 days
£m
Past due but not 
impaired – more 
than 120 days
£m
2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8
2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 –
Trade receivables at nominal value of £1.7m (2015: £1.1m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of 
receivables were as follows: 
Total
£m
At 27 June 2015 1.1
Charge for the year 1.1
Utilised (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.3)
At 2 July 2016 1.7
As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 
   
2016
£m
2015
£m
60-90 days    – –
90-120 days   – –
More than 120 days   1.7 1.1
   1.7 1.1
  
138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
15. Assets classified as held for sale 
This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale. The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally 
through a sale rather than through continuing use. For accounting policies see ‘Non-current assets held for sale’ in note 2. 
At 2 July 2016, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of £0.8m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and are included in the 
regional bus segment. 
During the year ended 2 July 2016, assets held for sale were sold for a profit of £0.7m, which is included within operating costs in the income statement. 
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £6.0m, consisting of £2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and £3.5m of 
bus vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.  
16. Inventories 
Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products. For accounting policies see ‘Inventories’  
in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Raw materials and consumables 18.3 17.9
The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial. 
17. Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in 
advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable. Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 
Trade receivables 178.1 102.0
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (1.7) (1.1)
Trade receivables – net 176.4 100.9
Other receivables 32.7 66.5
Prepayments 48.5 18.8
Accrued income 45.4 23.0
Receivable from central government 34.0 50.9
 337.0 260.1
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Other receivables 1.6 0.8
As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Total 
£m 
Neither past due 
nor impaired
£m
Less than 30 days
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days 
£m 
90-120 days
£m
Past due but not 
impaired – more 
than 120 days
£m
2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8
2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 –
Trade receivables at nominal value of £1.7m (2015: £1.1m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of 
receivables were as follows: 
Total
£m
At 27 June 2015 1.1
Charge for the year 1.1
Utilised (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.3)
At 2 July 2016 1.7
As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 
   
2016
£m
2015
£m
60-90 days    – –
90-120 days   – –
More than 120 days   1.7 1.1
   1.7 1.1
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 
18. Cash and cash equivalents 
The majority of the Group’s cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to comply with DfT short term liquidity 
requirements. For accounting policies see ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 82.1 145.5
Cash and cash equivalents 554.2 458.7
 636.3 604.2
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between 
one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates. The fair 
value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value. 
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up 
to the value of distributable reserves or based on a working capital formula. As at 2 July 2016, balances amounting to £562.3m (2015: £537.6m) were 
restricted. Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for rail season tickets, which was £181.3m at 2 July 2016 (2015: £172.8m). 
Non cashflow movements 
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group transferred in certain assets and liabilities relating to the handover of the GTR franchise. Initial cash 
received by the Group as a result of the rail franchise handover is detailed below: 
GTR
£m
Property, plant and equipment 6.9
Inventories 5.3
Trade and other receivables 7.1
Trade and other payables (53.9)
Provisions (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 34.8
 –
19. Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts owed to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket 
income. They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to central government.  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 
Trade payables 262.0 148.9
Other taxes and social security costs 30.6 22.8
Other payables 67.9 106.6
Deferred season ticket income 181.3 175.4
Accruals 122.1 106.0
Deferred income 56.0 148.2
Payable to central government 149.9 60.5
Government grants 2.7 4.5
 872.5 772.9
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Government grants  4.3 5.2
 4.3 5.2
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: 
• Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms 
• Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
20. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The Group’s sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.  
For accounting policies see ‘Interest-bearing loans and borrowings’ and ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
Net cash/debt and interest-be aring loans and borrowings 
The net cash/debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After more than 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.00 0-5 years – 113.0 – 113.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.3) (0.6) – (0.9)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-2 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs – – – –
Finance leases and HP commitments  
(see note 21) 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 – – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 312.4 – 312.4
Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 – 0.9
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.3 313.0 – 313.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (636.3) – – (636.3)
Net cash (636.0) 313.0 – (323.0)
   
Restricted cash*  562.3
Adjusted net debt  239.3
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After more than 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.01 0-5 years – 111.0 – 111.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-3 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.5) (0.1) – (0.6)
Finance leases and HP commitments  
(see note 21) 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (0.7) 310.2 – 309.5
Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 – 1.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.2 311.1 – 311.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (604.2) – – (604.2)
Net cash (604.0) 311.1 – (292.9)
  
Restricted cash*   537.6
Adjusted net debt  244.7
* Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and short term deposits. The restricted cash can only be distributed with the agreement of the 
DfT, normally up to the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula. 
  
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
20. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The Group’s sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.  
For accounting policies see ‘Interest-bearing loans and borrowings’ and ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
Net cash/debt and interest-be aring loans and borrowings 
The net cash/debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After more than 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.00 0-5 years – 113.0 – 113.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.3) (0.6) – (0.9)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-2 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs – – – –
Finance leases and HP commitments  
(see note 21) 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 – – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 312.4 – 312.4
Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 – 0.9
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.3 313.0 – 313.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (636.3) – – (636.3)
Net cash (636.0) 313.0 – (323.0)
   
Restricted cash*  562.3
Adjusted net debt  239.3
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After more than 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.01 0-5 years – 111.0 – 111.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-3 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.5) (0.1) – (0.6)
Finance leases and HP commitments  
(see note 21) 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (0.7) 310.2 – 309.5
Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 – 1.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.2 311.1 – 311.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (604.2) – – (604.2)
Net cash (604.0) 311.1 – (292.9)
  
Restricted cash*   537.6
Adjusted net debt  244.7
* Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and short term deposits. The restricted cash can only be distributed with the agreement of the 
DfT, normally up to the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 
Analysis of Group net debt 
 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m
Syndicated loan 
facility
£m
Dollar loan
£m
Hire purchase/ 
finance leases 
£m 
£200m 
sterling bond
£m
Total
£m
28 June 2014 281.8 (120.0) (2.5) (2.0) (200.0) (42.7)
Cashflow 287.6 9.0 2.5 1.7 – 300.8
On handover of rail franchise 34.8 – – – – 34.8
27 June 2015 604.2 (111.0) – (0.3) (200.0) 292.9
Cashflow 32.1 (2.0) – 1.1 – 31.2
On acquisition – – – (1.1) – (1.1)
2 July 2016 636.3 (113.0) – (0.3) (200.0) 323.0
Syndicated loan facility 
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a £280.0m five year syndicated loan facility. The loan facility is unsecured and interest is 
charged at LIBOR + Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group. The facility had an initial maturity of July 2019, with two 
one-year extensions, the second of which was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the facility to July 2021 from that date. 
As at 2 July 2016, £113.0m (2015: £111.0m) of the facility was drawn down.  
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a £200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.  
£200m term loan 
On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into a £200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the £200m sterling 7.5 year bond. The facility is 
available to draw down between 4 September 2017 and 29 September 2017. Once drawn down, the facility is available to the Group with extensions 
for up to a further 24 months. The loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR + Margin, where the margin is dependant on the Group’s 
investment grade rating, currently BBB- and Baaa3. 
Dollar loan 
On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture. The joint 
venture ceased trading on 25 July 2014, and on termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid and the facility subsequently cancelled. 
The dollar loan was unsecured and interest was charged at US$ LIBOR + Margin. 
Debt issue costs 
There are debt issue costs of £0.9m (2015: £1.2m) on the syndicated loan facility. 
The £200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of £nil (2015: £0.6m). 
The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities. The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a 
minimum net interest cover. At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.  
21. Finance lease and hire purchase commitments 
This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments. For accounting policies see ‘Interest bearing loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. These contracts have no terms of 
renewal or purchase option escalation clauses. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the 
present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: 
2016 
 
2015 
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present value  
of payments 
£m 
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present value 
of payments
£m
Within one year 0.3 0.3  0.2 0.2
After one year but not more than five years – –  0.1 0.1
Total minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3  0.3 0.3
Less amounts representing finance charges – –  – –
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3  0.3 0.3
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22. Financial risk management objectives and policies 
This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group  
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks. 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term 
deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Group’s activities, namely working 
capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade 
payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps. The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and 
interest rate risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. At the year end, the Group did not hold any interest rate swaps. 
It is, and has been throughout 2014/15 and 2015/16, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only 
purchased for internal benefit. 
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Commodity price risk is managed via fuel 
derviatives. Risks arising from these are explained in note 23. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates. The Group’s policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short 
term on UK money markets. Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up 
to 36 months.  
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and/or interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 2 July 
2016 and 27 June 2015 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place. The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in 
interest rates. 
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group (excluding unamortised issue costs) as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 
2015 is as follows: 
 
Average 
rate
%
Within 
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 2 July 2016   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.00 – – – – 113.0 – 113.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 113.0 – 113.0
Cash assets 0.55 (636.3) – – – – – (636.3)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (636.3) – – – 113.0 – (523.3)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – 200.0 – – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 8.89 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 – – – – 200.3
   
Year ended 27 June 2015   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.10 – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Cash assets 0.54 (604.2) – – – – – (604.2)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (604.2) – – – 111.0 – (493.2)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – – 200.0 – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 – – – 200.3
The expected maturity of the financial assets and liablities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities. 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed 
rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest 
bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
  
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22. Financial risk management objectives and policies 
This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group  
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks. 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term 
deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Group’s activities, namely working 
capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade 
payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps. The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and 
interest rate risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. At the year end, the Group did not hold any interest rate swaps. 
It is, and has been throughout 2014/15 and 2015/16, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only 
purchased for internal benefit. 
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Commodity price risk is managed via fuel 
derviatives. Risks arising from these are explained in note 23. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates. The Group’s policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short 
term on UK money markets. Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up 
to 36 months.  
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and/or interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 2 July 
2016 and 27 June 2015 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place. The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in 
interest rates. 
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group (excluding unamortised issue costs) as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 
2015 is as follows: 
 
Average 
rate
%
Within 
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 2 July 2016   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.00 – – – – 113.0 – 113.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 113.0 – 113.0
Cash assets 0.55 (636.3) – – – – – (636.3)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (636.3) – – – 113.0 – (523.3)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – 200.0 – – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 8.89 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 – – – – 200.3
   
Year ended 27 June 2015   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.10 – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Cash assets 0.54 (604.2) – – – – – (604.2)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (604.2) – – – 111.0 – (493.2)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – – 200.0 – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 – – – 200.3
The expected maturity of the financial assets and liablities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities. 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed 
rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest 
bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 
Interest rate risk table 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 
profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings) based on recent historic changes. 
Increase/ 
decrease in  
basis points 
Effect on profit 
before tax
£m
Effect on 
equity
£m
2016  
GBP 50.0 (0.5) (0.5)
GBP (50.0) 0.5 0.5
2015  
GBP 50.0 (0.5) (0.5)
GBP (50.0) 0.5 0.5
Liquidity risk 
The Group has in place a £280.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.  
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a £280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, with two one-year extensions replacing the 
previous £275.0m five year syndicated loan facility. The second of the one-year extensions was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the 
current facility to July 2021. 
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a £200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017. The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates 
are detailed in note 20.  
On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into a £200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the £200m sterling 7.5 year bond. The facility is 
available to draw down between 4 September 2017 and 29 September 2017. Once drawn down, the facility is available to the Group with extensions 
for up to a further 24 months. 
Available liquidity as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 was as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Five year syndicated facility 2019/2021 280.0 280.0
£200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0
Total core facilities  480.0 480.0
Amount drawn down at 2 July 2016 313.0 311.0
Headroom 167.0 169.0
The Group’s bus vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five year 
primary borrowing periods. This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group has foreign exchange exposure in respect of cashflow commitments to both its operations in Germany and in Singapore, of which neither 
are currently material to the Group. 
Credit risk 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables (see note 17) and cash deposits (see note 18). The maximum credit risk exposure  
of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt. A provision is made where 
there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows. 
The majority of the Group’s receivables are with public (or quasi-public) bodies (such as the DfT). The Group does not consider these counterparties to  
be a significant credit risk. Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated 
A- or A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies. The treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any 
one given financial institution. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Contractual payments 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments. 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.9 116.9 – 118.0
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.7 – 202.7 – 213.4
Other financial liabilities  – 2.4 7.9 4.1 – 14.4
Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 – – 594.1
 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 – 939.9
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.7 113.8 – 114.7
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.6 – 212.9 – 223.5
Other financial liabilities  – 4.8 14.3 5.5 – 24.6
Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 – – 421.9
 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 – 784.7
Managing capital 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to 
support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in 
economic conditions. Details of the issued capital and reserves are shown in note 25. Details of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are shown in 
note 20. 
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new 
shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015. 
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt (adjusted to exclude restricted cash) to EBITDA* is within a 
range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-. 
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s as follows: 
Standard & Poor’s  BBB- (Stable outlook) 
Moody’s  Baa3 (Stable outlook) 
Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 2 July 2016. 
The Group’s policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x. The Group’s calculation of adjusted net debt is  
set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash. During the year no 
specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating. 
Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at 2 July 2016, 
was 1.36x (2015: 1.32x). Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 (revised) of £37.0m (2015: £20.0m) 
resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.12x (2015: 1.19x). 
* Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs. 
Operating leases 
The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the 
risk of ownership at the end of the contract. This results in £1.1m (2015: £1.1m) of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been 
charged to interest. The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of £24.6m (2015: £20.1m). 
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.  
  
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Contractual payments 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments. 
Year ended 2 July 2016 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.9 116.9 – 118.0
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.7 – 202.7 – 213.4
Other financial liabilities  – 2.4 7.9 4.1 – 14.4
Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 – – 594.1
 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 – 939.9
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.7 113.8 – 114.7
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.6 – 212.9 – 223.5
Other financial liabilities  – 4.8 14.3 5.5 – 24.6
Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 – – 421.9
 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 – 784.7
Managing capital 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to 
support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in 
economic conditions. Details of the issued capital and reserves are shown in note 25. Details of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are shown in 
note 20. 
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new 
shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015. 
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt (adjusted to exclude restricted cash) to EBITDA* is within a 
range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-. 
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s as follows: 
Standard & Poor’s  BBB- (Stable outlook) 
Moody’s  Baa3 (Stable outlook) 
Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 2 July 2016. 
The Group’s policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x. The Group’s calculation of adjusted net debt is  
set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash. During the year no 
specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating. 
Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at 2 July 2016, 
was 1.36x (2015: 1.32x). Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 (revised) of £37.0m (2015: £20.0m) 
resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.12x (2015: 1.19x). 
* Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs. 
Operating leases 
The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the 
risk of ownership at the end of the contract. This results in £1.1m (2015: £1.1m) of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been 
charged to interest. The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of £24.6m (2015: £20.1m). 
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.  
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 
23. Derivatives and financial instruments 
A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset. The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks 
associated with fuel price fluctuations. Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives and finance lease/hire purchase contracts. 
For accounting policies see ‘Financial assets and derivatives’, ‘Fair value measurement’ and ‘Interest bearing loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
a. Fair values 
The fair values of the Group’s financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 and  
are as follows:  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets 0.2 –
Current assets 0.6 –
 0.8 –
Current liabilities (10.3) (19.1)
Non-current liabilities (4.1) (5.5)
 (14.4) (24.6)
Net financial derivatives (13.6) (24.6)
Year ended 2 July 2016 
Amortised cost 
£m
Held for trading –
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
£m 
Total 
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
Fuel price derivatives – (13.6) (13.6) (13.6)
Net financial derviatives – (13.6) (13.6) (13.6)
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
 (0.3) (13.6) (13.9) (13.9)
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Amortised cost 
£m
Held for trading – 
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
£m 
Total 
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
Fuel price derivatives – (24.6) (24.6) (24.6)
Net financial derivatives – (24.6) (24.6) (24.6)
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
 (0.3) (24.6) (24.9) (24.9)
The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 17, 19 and 20 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of £209.5m (2015: £213.7m) but is carried at its amortised cost of £200.0m (2015: £199.4m). The 
fair value of the £200m sterling 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded. 
The fuel price derivatives were valued externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date. 
All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates. 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: 
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly 
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 
As at 2 July 2016, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.  
During the year ended 2 July 2016, there were no transfers between valuation levels. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
23. Derivatives and financial instruments continued 
b. Hedging activities 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its 
exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.  
Bus 
As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 370 million litres for the five years ending June 2021. The fair value of the asset or liability 
has been recognised on the balance sheet. The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in 
market fuel prices. 
As at 2 July 2016 the amounts hedged are as follows: 
2017 2018 2019* 2020* 2021*
Actual percentage hedged 100% 100% 60% 30% 10%
Litres hedged (million) 125 124 73 36 12
Price (pence per litre) 36.4 34.7 32.3 33.4 35.1
* Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2016 market price. 
Rail 
As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 12 million litres for the year ended 1 July 2017 and 4 million litres for the 2018 financial 
year, representing the anticipated fuel usage in London Midland. The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet. The 
value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices. 
The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was £9.2m credit (net of tax) (2015: £15.8m debit (net of tax)) taken through other 
comprehensive income. 
24. Provisions 
A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is 
therefore often estimated. The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments. 
For accounting policies see ‘Provisions’ and ‘Uninsured liabilities’ in note 2. 
Franchise 
commitments
£m
Uninsured 
claims 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6
Provided (after discounting) 12.4 20.8 0.9 34.1
Utilised (12.9) (16.0) – (28.9)
Released (3.4) (5.6) (0.5) (9.5)
Unwinding of discounting 0.8 1.6 – 2.4
At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 32.0 75.4
Non-current 73.7 32.2
 105.7 107.6
Franchise commitments comprise £57.7m (2015: £60.1m) dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, 
and £2.4m (2015: £3.1m) provisions relating to other franchise commitments. Of the dilapidations provisions, £12.1m (2015: £52.1m) are classified as 
current. All of the £2.4m (2015: £3.1m) provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current. During the year £3.4m (2015: £9.3m) 
of provisions previously provided were released following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions. The dilapidations will be incurred as 
part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next three years. The provisions are based on management’s assessment of most probable outcomes, 
supported where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors. 
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group 
by the insurer. Of the uninsured claims, £16.0m (2015: £19.1m) are classified as current and £26.1m (2015: £22.2m) are classified as non-current based 
on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years. 
Within other provisions, £3.2m (2015: £2.8m) relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which £1.2m (2015: £0.8m) are classified as current, and 
£2.0m (2015: £2.0m) are classified as non-current. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years. The remaining other 
current provision of £0.3m (2015: £0.3m) relates to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.  
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
23. Derivatives and financial instruments continued 
b. Hedging activities 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its 
exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.  
Bus 
As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 370 million litres for the five years ending June 2021. The fair value of the asset or liability 
has been recognised on the balance sheet. The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in 
market fuel prices. 
As at 2 July 2016 the amounts hedged are as follows: 
2017 2018 2019* 2020* 2021*
Actual percentage hedged 100% 100% 60% 30% 10%
Litres hedged (million) 125 124 73 36 12
Price (pence per litre) 36.4 34.7 32.3 33.4 35.1
* Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2016 market price. 
Rail 
As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 12 million litres for the year ended 1 July 2017 and 4 million litres for the 2018 financial 
year, representing the anticipated fuel usage in London Midland. The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet. The 
value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices. 
The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was £9.2m credit (net of tax) (2015: £15.8m debit (net of tax)) taken through other 
comprehensive income. 
24. Provisions 
A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is 
therefore often estimated. The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments. 
For accounting policies see ‘Provisions’ and ‘Uninsured liabilities’ in note 2. 
Franchise 
commitments
£m
Uninsured 
claims 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6
Provided (after discounting) 12.4 20.8 0.9 34.1
Utilised (12.9) (16.0) – (28.9)
Released (3.4) (5.6) (0.5) (9.5)
Unwinding of discounting 0.8 1.6 – 2.4
At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 32.0 75.4
Non-current 73.7 32.2
 105.7 107.6
Franchise commitments comprise £57.7m (2015: £60.1m) dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, 
and £2.4m (2015: £3.1m) provisions relating to other franchise commitments. Of the dilapidations provisions, £12.1m (2015: £52.1m) are classified as 
current. All of the £2.4m (2015: £3.1m) provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current. During the year £3.4m (2015: £9.3m) 
of provisions previously provided were released following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions. The dilapidations will be incurred as 
part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next three years. The provisions are based on management’s assessment of most probable outcomes, 
supported where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors. 
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group 
by the insurer. Of the uninsured claims, £16.0m (2015: £19.1m) are classified as current and £26.1m (2015: £22.2m) are classified as non-current based 
on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years. 
Within other provisions, £3.2m (2015: £2.8m) relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which £1.2m (2015: £0.8m) are classified as current, and 
£2.0m (2015: £2.0m) are classified as non-current. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years. The remaining other 
current provision of £0.3m (2015: £0.3m) relates to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 
25. Issued capital and reserves  
Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value. For accounting policies see ‘Treasury shares’ in note 2. 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
Millions
2016 
£m Millions
2015
£m
As at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7
The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income and have a par value of 10p per share. 
Share capital 
Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Group’s equity, both nominal value and share premium. 
Reserve for own shares 
The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,017,412 ordinary shares (8.6% of share capital), of which 115,182 are held for LTIP and DSBP 
arrangements. 
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders’ returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate 
circumstances. During the year ended 2 July 2016 the Group has repurchased 172,964 shares (2015: no shares purchased). The Group has not cancelled  
any shares during the year (2015: no shares cancelled). 
Share premium reserve 
The share premium reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group. This 
treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares. 
26. Commitments  
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.  
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier. 
Capital commitments 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Contracted for but not provided – acquisition of property, plant and equipment 78.3 52.7
Contractual commitments 
The Group had contractual commitments, regarding payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise, which transferred to GTR on 26 July 
2015 of £nil at 2 July 2016 (27 June 2015: £22.5m payable within one year). 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
26. Commitments continued 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items. Renewals are at the option of the lessee. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: 
As at 2 July 2016 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8
Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4
 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9
As at 27 June 2015 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9
Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9
 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor 
The Group’s train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the 
railway infrastructure (track, stations and depots). 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: 
2016  2015 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail  
agreements 
£m  
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail 
agreements
£m
Within one year 3.5 2.9  4.8 2.8
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.5 2.8  11.7 –
Over five years – –  2.1 –
 6.0 5.7  18.6 2.8
Performance bonds 
The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of £76.2m (2015: £124.3m), a loan guarantee bond of £36.3m (2015: £36.3m), and 
season ticket bonds of £227.1m (2015: £207.2m) to the DfT in support of the Group’s rail franchise operations.  
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued 
certain performance bonds and a letter of credit. The letter of credit at 2 July 2016 is £45.0m (2015: £45.0m). 
The Group has a bond of $10.9m SGD (2015: $nil SGD) to the Land Transport Authority of Singapore in support of the Group’s Singapore bus 
operations. At the year-end exchange rate this equates to £6.1m (2015: £nil). 
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
26. Commitments continued 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items. Renewals are at the option of the lessee. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: 
As at 2 July 2016 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8
Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4
 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9
As at 27 June 2015 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9
Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9
 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor 
The Group’s train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the 
railway infrastructure (track, stations and depots). 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: 
2016  2015 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail  
agreements 
£m  
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail 
agreements
£m
Within one year 3.5 2.9  4.8 2.8
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.5 2.8  11.7 –
Over five years – –  2.1 –
 6.0 5.7  18.6 2.8
Performance bonds 
The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of £76.2m (2015: £124.3m), a loan guarantee bond of £36.3m (2015: £36.3m), and 
season ticket bonds of £227.1m (2015: £207.2m) to the DfT in support of the Group’s rail franchise operations.  
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued 
certain performance bonds and a letter of credit. The letter of credit at 2 July 2016 is £45.0m (2015: £45.0m). 
The Group has a bond of $10.9m SGD (2015: $nil SGD) to the Land Transport Authority of Singapore in support of the Group’s Singapore bus 
operations. At the year-end exchange rate this equates to £6.1m (2015: £nil). 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149 
27. Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a workplace saving scheme for our employees. We also administer a defined benefit 
pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals. The train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined 
benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these 
schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise. For accounting policies see ‘Retirement benefits’ in note 2. 
Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: 
2016 
 
2015 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total 
£m 
Bus  
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
£m
Pre-tax pension scheme liabilities (2.7) – (2.7)  (59.5) – (59.5)
 
2016 
 
2015 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total 
£m 
Bus  
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
£m
Remeasurement gains/(losses) due to:    
 Experience on benefit obligations 68.8 (0.4) 68.4  21.9 32.9 54.8
 Changes in demographic assumptions  (10.6) – (10.6)  – – –
 Changes in financial assumptions (102.1) (184.0) (286.1)  (93.5) (206.0) (299.5)
 Salary cap introduction – 48.1 48.1  – – –
 Return on assets greater than discount rate 99.4 102.2 201.6  72.3 65.8 138.1
 Franchise adjustment movement – 79.4 79.4  – 131.2 131.2
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 55.5 45.3 100.8  0.7 23.9 24.6
Bus schemes 
The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan 
For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan (the Go-Ahead Plan), which 
consists of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows. 
The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme. It is now closed to new entrants and 
has been replaced by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme. The expense recognised for the defined 
contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is £9.9m (2015: £11.3m), being the contributions paid and payable. The expense recognised for the 
workplace saving scheme is £2.8m (2015: £1.9m) being the contributions paid and payable. 
The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a member’s 
final salary. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund. Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the 
advice of an independent qualified actuary. The defined benefit section of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan has been closed to new entrants and 
closed to future accrual. 
The Go-Ahead Plan is a plan for related companies within the Group where risks are shared. The overall costs of the Go-Ahead Plan have been 
recognised in the Group’s financial statements according to IAS 19 (revised). Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of contributions 
paid by that company. The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 (revised) cost of the scheme and the aggregate 
contributions paid. 
The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation. This 
regulatory framework requires the Trustees of the Go-Ahead Plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the 
necessary contributions as part of each triennial valuation. The last actuarial valuation of the Go-Ahead Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2015. 
The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead Plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return 
seeking assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on 
plan assets. Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy. 
Other pension plans 
Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan. This scheme is externally funded and is now 
closed to new entrants. Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.  
Summary of bus schemes year end assumptions 
 
2016
%
2015
%
Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3
Discount rate 2.8 3.8
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.0
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the 
accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65. 
 
2016
Years
2015
Years
Pensioner 21 20
Non-pensioner 22 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the 
impact of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
 
2016
Pension deficit
%
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7) (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6
The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods. The use of 0.1% and 1 year in the sensitivity analysis is 
considered to be a reasonable illustrative approximation of possible changes, as these variations can regularly arise. 
Maturity profile of bus scheme s defined benefit obligation 
The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 2 July 2016. 
2016
 £m
June 2017 22.5
June 2018 23.0
June 2019 23.5
June 2020 24.1
June 2021 24.6
June 2022 to June 2026 131.5
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 275.1 36.0  254.3 38.6
Bonds 16.5 2.2  15.9 2.4
Property 69.6 9.1  61.4 9.3
Liability driven investing portfolio 392.2 51.4  306.1 46.4
Cash/other 9.7 1.3  21.5 3.3
 763.1 100.0  659.2 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (765.8) (718.7)
Assets at fair value 763.1 659.2
Pension scheme liability (2.7) (59.5)
  
150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the 
accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65. 
 
2016
Years
2015
Years
Pensioner 21 20
Non-pensioner 22 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the 
impact of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
 
2016
Pension deficit
%
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7) (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6
The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods. The use of 0.1% and 1 year in the sensitivity analysis is 
considered to be a reasonable illustrative approximation of possible changes, as these variations can regularly arise. 
Maturity profile of bus scheme s defined benefit obligation 
The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 2 July 2016. 
2016
 £m
June 2017 22.5
June 2018 23.0
June 2019 23.5
June 2020 24.1
June 2021 24.6
June 2022 to June 2026 131.5
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 275.1 36.0  254.3 38.6
Bonds 16.5 2.2  15.9 2.4
Property 69.6 9.1  61.4 9.3
Liability driven investing portfolio 392.2 51.4  306.1 46.4
Cash/other 9.7 1.3  21.5 3.3
 763.1 100.0  659.2 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (765.8) (718.7)
Assets at fair value 763.1 659.2
Pension scheme liability (2.7) (59.5)
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 151 
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Service cost 0.1 –
Administration costs 1.8 2.2
Settlement (gain)/ loss (0.5) 0.5
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.1 2.4
Total pension costs 3.5 5.1
The £0.5m settlement gain represents gains made by the pension scheme in respect of the pension increase exchange exercise undertaken in the year. 
Analysis of the change in the pension sc heme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 718.7 663.3
Service cost  0.1 –
Interest cost  26.4 27.2
Settlement gain (0.5) –
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
 Experience on benefit obligations (68.8) (21.9)
 Changes in demographic assumptions 10.6 –
 Changes in financial assumptions 102.1 93.5
Transfer payments – (17.9)
Benefits paid (22.8) (25.5)
Pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 765.8 718.7
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year 659.2 603.5
Interest income of plan assets 24.3 24.8
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 99.4 72.3
Administration costs (1.8) (2.2)
Group contributions 4.8 4.7
Transfer payments – (18.4)
Benefits paid (22.8) (25.5)
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year 763.1 659.2
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2017 6.5
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2017 –
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2017 6.5
Rail schemes 
The Railways Pension Scheme (RPS) 
The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme. The RPS is a shared 
costs scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60%/40% between the franchise holder/employee respectively. The RPS sections are all open to new 
entrants and the assets and liabilities of each company’s section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes. 
Changes in financial assumptions includes the effect of changes in the salary cap agreed to offset additional National Insurance costs as a result of the 
schemes no longer “opting out”. 
British Railways Additional Superannuation Scheme (BRASS) matching AVC Group contributions of £0.7m (2015: £0.8m) were paid in the year. 
It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the 
obligations recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 (revised) are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term. However, 
in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted. On entering into a 
franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of 
contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.  
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant 
UK legislation. 
IAS 19 (revised) would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the 
terms of each franchise agreement. Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure 
that the financial statements present fairly the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its 
legal RPS defined benefit obligations. In all other respects the Group’s accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 (revised) and the treatment adopted 
for non-rail defined benefit schemes. In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of 
IAS 19 (revised) in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Group’s obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the 
existing RPS deficits to a new franchise owner at exit. 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a ‘franchise adjustment’, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that could arise 
from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required 
to fund or benefit from. 
Summary of year end assumptions 
 
2016
%
2015
%
Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3
Discount rate 2.8 3.8
Rate of increase in salaries 3.1 4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.3
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the 
accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.  
 
2016
Years
2015
Years
Pensioner 22 22
Non-pensioner 24 24
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013. 
Sensitivity analysis 
Due to the natue of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small movements in 
any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis. 
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 1,907.6 96.5  1,663.6 95.5
Property 67.2 3.4  71.4 4.1
Cash 2.0 0.1  7.0 0.4
 1,976.8 100.0  1,742.0 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s 60% share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (2,625.8) (2,290.4)
Assets at fair value 1,976.8 1,742.0
Gross deficit (649.0) (548.4)
Franchise adjustment 649.0 548.4
Pension scheme liability – –
  
152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a ‘franchise adjustment’, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that could arise 
from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required 
to fund or benefit from. 
Summary of year end assumptions 
 
2016
%
2015
%
Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3
Discount rate 2.8 3.8
Rate of increase in salaries 3.1 4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.3
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the 
accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.  
 
2016
Years
2015
Years
Pensioner 22 22
Non-pensioner 24 24
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013. 
Sensitivity analysis 
Due to the natue of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small movements in 
any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis. 
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 1,907.6 96.5  1,663.6 95.5
Property 67.2 3.4  71.4 4.1
Cash 2.0 0.1  7.0 0.4
 1,976.8 100.0  1,742.0 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s 60% share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (2,625.8) (2,290.4)
Assets at fair value 1,976.8 1,742.0
Gross deficit (649.0) (548.4)
Franchise adjustment 649.0 548.4
Pension scheme liability – –
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 153 
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Service cost 85.5 63.2
Administration costs 3.9 3.0
Interest cost on net liabilities 21.2 16.9
Interest on franchise adjustments (21.2) (16.9)
Pension cost 89.4 66.2
Analysis of the change in the empl oyer’s 60% share of pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pension scheme liabilities less members share (40%) of the deficit – at start of year  2,290.4 1,601.6
Franchise adjustment (100%) (548.4) (337.3)
 1,742.0 1,264.3
Liability movement for members’ share of assets (40%)  119.9 94.1
Service cost (60%) 85.5 63.2
Interest cost (60%)  60.6 55.2
Interest on franchise adjustment (100%) (21.2) (16.9)
Remeasurement losses/(gains) due to: 
 Experience on benefit obligations (60%) 0.4 (32.9)
 Changes in financial assumptions (60%) 184.0 206.1
 Salary cap introduction (60%) (48.1) –
Benefits paid (100%) (66.9) (51.7)
GTR franchise award – employers’ share of pension scheme liabilities (60%) – 354.8
GTR franchise award – franchise adjustment (100%) – (63.0)
Franchise adjustment movement (100%) (79.4) (131.2)
 1,976.8 1,742.0
Franchise adjustment (100%) 649.0 548.4
Pension scheme liabilities less members share (40%) of the deficit – at end of year 2,625.8 2,290.4
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year (100%) 1,742.0 1,264.3
Interest income of plan assets (60%) 39.3 38.3
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate (60%) 102.2 65.8
Administration costs (100%) (6.6) (5.0)
Group contributions (100%) 43.5 41.5
Benefits paid (100%) (66.9) (51.7)
GTR franchise award (100%) – 291.8
Members’ share of movement of assets (40%) 123.3 97.0
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year (100%) 1,976.8 1,742.0
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2017 37.4
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2017 24.2
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2017 61.6
 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 (revised) the following adjustments would have been 
made to the financial statements: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Balance sheet 
Defined benefit pension plan (649.0) (548.4)
Deferred tax asset 116.8 109.7
 (532.2) (438.7)
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement gains 79.4 131.2
Tax on remeasurement gains (14.3) (26.2)
 65.1 105.0
Income statement 
Operating costs – franchise adjustment (21.2) (16.9)
Deferred tax charge 3.8 3.4
 (17.4) (13.5)
Risks associated with defined benefit plans 
Rail schemes 
Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train 
operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise. As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within 
this business. 
Bus schemes 
The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group 
Pension Plan, closed to future accrual. 
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 
Risk Description Mitigation 
Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with 
reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension 
maturity; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. 
Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion  
of return-seeking assets (equities, diversified growth funds and  
global absolute return funds), and to offset the additional risk,  
hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should 
reduce volatility. 
Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in  
all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded  
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven 
investments. 
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked  
to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. 
The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, 
which helps to offset this risk. 
Life expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits 
for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual 
reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk. 
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain. In the past these have  
led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases,  
and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment  
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation  
Tax. The UK government has legislated to end contracting out  
in 2016. Further legislation could result in an increase in the  
value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. If this legislation is 
implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation  
of the arrangements. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, 
reducing risk to legislative change. The Group takes professional 
advice to keep abreast of legislative changes. 
 
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 (revised) the following adjustments would have been 
made to the financial statements: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Balance sheet 
Defined benefit pension plan (649.0) (548.4)
Deferred tax asset 116.8 109.7
 (532.2) (438.7)
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement gains 79.4 131.2
Tax on remeasurement gains (14.3) (26.2)
 65.1 105.0
Income statement 
Operating costs – franchise adjustment (21.2) (16.9)
Deferred tax charge 3.8 3.4
 (17.4) (13.5)
Risks associated with defined benefit plans 
Rail schemes 
Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train 
operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise. As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within 
this business. 
Bus schemes 
The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group 
Pension Plan, closed to future accrual. 
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 
Risk Description Mitigation 
Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with 
reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension 
maturity; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. 
Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion  
of return-seeking assets (equities, diversified growth funds and  
global absolute return funds), and to offset the additional risk,  
hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should 
reduce volatility. 
Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in  
all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded  
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven 
investments. 
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked  
to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. 
The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, 
which helps to offset this risk. 
Life expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits 
for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual 
reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk. 
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain. In the past these have  
led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases,  
and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment  
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation  
Tax. The UK government has legislated to end contracting out  
in 2016. Further legislation could result in an increase in the  
value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. If this legislation is 
implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation  
of the arrangements. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, 
reducing risk to legislative change. The Group takes professional 
advice to keep abreast of legislative changes. 
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155 
28. Related party disclosures and Group undertakings 
Our subsidiaries listed below each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group. The Group has a number of related parties including 
joint ventures, pension schemes and directors. For accounting policies see ‘Interests in joint arrangements’ in note 2. 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: 
 % equity interest 
Name Country of incorporation  2016 2015
Trading subsidiaries  
Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom
2
 100 100
Go North East Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Northern Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London Central Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Metrobus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Transport Support Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Konectbus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Travel (Wallingford) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hedingham and District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
HC Chambers and Son Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom  100 100
New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Govia Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Holding LLC United States of America – 100
Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany  100 100
Go-Ahead Holding (Singapore) PTE Ltd Singapore 100 –
Go-Ahead Loyang PTE Ltd Singapore 100 –
Jointly controlled entities  
On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom
3
 50 50
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
2 Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc. All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings. 
3 On Track Retail Limited is a start up company and was immaterial to the Group’s financial statements. 
The above trading subsidiaries have one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. With the exception of On Track Retail Limited, 
whch also have redeemable preference shares. 
The registered office of all trading subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3
rd
 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE. 
The registered office of Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH incorporated in Germany is: Platz vor dem Neuen Tor 2, D- 10115, 
Berlin, Germany. 
The registered office of trading subsidiaries incorporated in Singapore is: 2 Loyang Way, Singapore 508776. 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
28. Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued 
 % equity interest 
Name Company number Country of incorporation  2016 2015
Dormant subsidiaries  
Eastern Railway Limited 7164882 United Kingdom  100 100
Go Wear Buses Limited 2019645 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Reading Limited 3158846 United Kingdom  100 100
South Central Limited 4173713 United Kingdom  100 100
The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited 2125799 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Property Development Limited 7128594 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead XX Limited 8205871 United Kingdom  100 100
GHI Limited 4262016 United Kingdom  100 100
Southern Vectis Limited 2005917 United Kingdom  100 100
Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited 2901263 United Kingdom  100 100
Go Coastline Limited 2018469 United Kingdom  100 100
Go London Limited 2849983 United Kingdom  100 100
Go West Midlands Limited 2490584 United Kingdom  100 100
Levers Coaches Limited 2524573 United Kingdom  100 100
MetroCity (Newcastle) Limited 4153866 United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Trains Limited 3007943 United Kingdom  100 100
Victory Railway Holdings Limited 3147927 United Kingdom  100 100
Govia Northern Limited 6537238 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London & East Midlands Railway Limited 5814586 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and West Midlands Railway Limited  
(previously North London Orbital Railway Limited) 5537947 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Abingdon Bus Company Limited 3151270 United Kingdom  100 100
Reed Investments Limited 4236536 United Kingdom  100 100
Gatwick Handling Limited 2984113 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Heathrow Limited 2813292 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Manchester Limited 1883900 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Stansted Limited 1983429 United Kingdom  100 100
Midland Airport Services Limited 1592083 United Kingdom  100 100
Oxford Newco Limited 9542008 United Kingdom  100 100
London General Trustee Company Limited 6953098 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Finance Company 4699524 United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited 2752603 United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Trim Limited 2017829 United Kingdom  100 100
Solent Blue Line Limited 2103030 United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Services) Limited 2201331 United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Southampton) Limited 1622531 United Kingdom  100 100
The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited 0241973 United Kingdom  100 100
Tourist Coaches Limited 3006529 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited 1671355 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited 4613075 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited 2091878 United Kingdom  100 100
Dockland Buses Limited 3420004 United Kingdom  100 100
Blue Triangle Buses Limited 3770568 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Leasing Limited 5262810 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Sverige AB Sweden 100 –
Go-Ahead Norge AS Norway 100 –
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
The registered office of all dormant subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3
rd
 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE. 
The registered office of Go-Ahead Sverige AB incorporated in Sweden is: Mäster Samuelsgatan 20, SE 101 39, Stockholm, Sweden. 
The registered office of Go-Ahead Norge AS incorporated in Norway is: Filipstad Brygge 1, NO 0125, Oslo, Norway. 
All dormant companies listed above incorporated in the United Kingdom have taken advantage of the UK Companies Act 2006, S480 exemption 
from audit. 
  
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
28. Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued 
 % equity interest 
Name Company number Country of incorporation  2016 2015
Dormant subsidiaries  
Eastern Railway Limited 7164882 United Kingdom  100 100
Go Wear Buses Limited 2019645 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Reading Limited 3158846 United Kingdom  100 100
South Central Limited 4173713 United Kingdom  100 100
The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited 2125799 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Property Development Limited 7128594 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead XX Limited 8205871 United Kingdom  100 100
GHI Limited 4262016 United Kingdom  100 100
Southern Vectis Limited 2005917 United Kingdom  100 100
Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited 2901263 United Kingdom  100 100
Go Coastline Limited 2018469 United Kingdom  100 100
Go London Limited 2849983 United Kingdom  100 100
Go West Midlands Limited 2490584 United Kingdom  100 100
Levers Coaches Limited 2524573 United Kingdom  100 100
MetroCity (Newcastle) Limited 4153866 United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Trains Limited 3007943 United Kingdom  100 100
Victory Railway Holdings Limited 3147927 United Kingdom  100 100
Govia Northern Limited 6537238 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London & East Midlands Railway Limited 5814586 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and West Midlands Railway Limited  
(previously North London Orbital Railway Limited) 5537947 United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Abingdon Bus Company Limited 3151270 United Kingdom  100 100
Reed Investments Limited 4236536 United Kingdom  100 100
Gatwick Handling Limited 2984113 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Heathrow Limited 2813292 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Manchester Limited 1883900 United Kingdom  100 100
GH Stansted Limited 1983429 United Kingdom  100 100
Midland Airport Services Limited 1592083 United Kingdom  100 100
Oxford Newco Limited 9542008 United Kingdom  100 100
London General Trustee Company Limited 6953098 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Finance Company 4699524 United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited 2752603 United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Trim Limited 2017829 United Kingdom  100 100
Solent Blue Line Limited 2103030 United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Services) Limited 2201331 United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Southampton) Limited 1622531 United Kingdom  100 100
The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited 0241973 United Kingdom  100 100
Tourist Coaches Limited 3006529 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited 1671355 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited 4613075 United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited 2091878 United Kingdom  100 100
Dockland Buses Limited 3420004 United Kingdom  100 100
Blue Triangle Buses Limited 3770568 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Leasing Limited 5262810 United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Sverige AB Sweden 100 –
Go-Ahead Norge AS Norway 100 –
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
The registered office of all dormant subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3
rd
 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE. 
The registered office of Go-Ahead Sverige AB incorporated in Sweden is: Mäster Samuelsgatan 20, SE 101 39, Stockholm, Sweden. 
The registered office of Go-Ahead Norge AS incorporated in Norway is: Filipstad Brygge 1, NO 0125, Oslo, Norway. 
All dormant companies listed above incorporated in the United Kingdom have taken advantage of the UK Companies Act 2006, S480 exemption 
from audit. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157 
Transactions with other related parties 
The Group meets certain costs of administering the Group’s retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support 
functions to the trustees. Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to £0.2m (2015: £0.2m). 
Joint operations 
The Group’s joint operations, On Track Retail Limited ‘OTR’ have their principal place of business in the United Kingdom. The principal activity of OTR 
is the development and provision of web ticketing applications for the rail industry. The activities of the joint operation are strategically important to the 
business activities of the Group. The Group owns 50% of the ordinary share capital of OTR. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
The key management are considered to be the directors of the parent company. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.3 1.9
Long term employee benefits
1
  1.0 2.3
Post employment benefits – 0.1
 2.3 4.3
1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP. 
Material partly owned subsidiaries 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: 
Proportion of equity interest he ld by non-controlling interests: 
Country of incorporation  
and operation 2016 2015
Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35%
London and South Eastern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Southern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
London and Birmingham Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Thameslink Rail Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
New Southern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
1 Subsidiary of Govia Limited. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: 
Govia Limited  22.6 15.8
Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: 
Govia Limited 24.4 13.8
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
158 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
28. Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued 
The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below. The information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations: 
Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies fo r the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 2,498.0 2,397.4
Operating costs (excluding amortisation and exceptional operating costs) (2,455.3) (2,355.1)
Intangible asset amortisation (0.6) (0.8)
Exceptional operating costs – (8.8)
Finance revenue 3.2 2.3
Finance costs (2.9) (2.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 42.4 32.1
Tax expense (9.3) (11.8)
Profit for the year from controlling operations 33.1 20.3
Total comprehensive income 69.8 39.4
Attributable to non-controlling interests 24.4 13.8
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 17.8 12.8
Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subs idiary companies as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current assets – inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 924.5 843.7
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 35.4 25.0
Current liabilities – trade and other payables, provisions (849.7) (815.7)
Non-current liabilities – provisions (45.6) (8.0)
Total equity 64.6 45.0
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent 42.0 29.2
Non-controlling interest 22.6 15.8
These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations. 
Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Operating 62.7 324.9
Investing 20.8 45.5
Financing (53.7) (39.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.8 331.1
158 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
158 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
28. Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued 
The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below. The information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations: 
Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies fo r the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 2,498.0 2,397.4
Operating costs (excluding amortisation and exceptional operating costs) (2,455.3) (2,355.1)
Intangible asset amortisation (0.6) (0.8)
Exceptional operating costs – (8.8)
Finance revenue 3.2 2.3
Finance costs (2.9) (2.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 42.4 32.1
Tax expense (9.3) (11.8)
Profit for the year from controlling operations 33.1 20.3
Total comprehensive income 69.8 39.4
Attributable to non-controlling interests 24.4 13.8
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 17.8 12.8
Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subs idiary companies as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current assets – inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 924.5 843.7
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 35.4 25.0
Current liabilities – trade and other payables, provisions (849.7) (815.7)
Non-current liabilities – provisions (45.6) (8.0)
Total equity 64.6 45.0
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent 42.0 29.2
Non-controlling interest 22.6 15.8
These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations. 
Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Operating 62.7 324.9
Investing 20.8 45.5
Financing (53.7) (39.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.8 331.1
Company statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 159 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year 23.4 72.4
 
Other comprehensive income: 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 56.7 0.7
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified (11.3) (0.1)
 45.4 0.6
 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 45.4 0.6
 
Total comprehensive income for the year 68.8 73.0
 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 159 Company statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
160 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
  
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Share 
premium 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 28 June 2014  4.7 67.4 82.0 1.6 0.7 (69.9) 447.3 533.8
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 72.4 72.4
Remeasurement on defined benefit retirement 
plans (net of tax) – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 73.0 73.0
Dividend income (note 2)  – – – – – – (36.7) (36.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve (note 13) – – (4.9) – – – 4.9 –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 1.1 (1.1) –
At 27 June 2015  4.7 67.4 77.1 1.6 0.7 (68.8) 488.6 571.3
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 23.4 23.4
Remeasurement on defined benefit retirement 
plans (net of tax) – – – – – – 45.4 45.4
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 68.8 68.8
Dividend income (note 2)  – – – – – – (39.4) (39.4)
Movement on revaluation reserve (note 13) – – (3.2) – – – 3.2 –
Acquisition of own shares  – – – – – (4.4) – (4.4)
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 2.3 (2.3) –
At 2 July 2016 4.7 67.4 73.9 1.6 0.7 (70.9) 519.7 597.1
 
 
160 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Company statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 2 July 2016 
160 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
  
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Share 
premium 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 28 June 2014  4.7 67.4 82.0 1.6 0.7 (69.9) 447.3 533.8
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 72.4 72.4
Remeasurement on defined benefit retirement 
plans (net of tax) – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 73.0 73.0
Dividend income (note 2)  – – – – – – (36.7) (36.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve (note 13) – – (4.9) – – – 4.9 –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 1.1 (1.1) –
At 27 June 2015  4.7 67.4 77.1 1.6 0.7 (68.8) 488.6 571.3
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 23.4 23.4
Remeasurement on defined benefit retirement 
plans (net of tax) – – – – – – 45.4 45.4
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 68.8 68.8
Dividend income (note 2)  – – – – – – (39.4) (39.4)
Movement on revaluation reserve (note 13) – – (3.2) – – – 3.2 –
Acquisition of own shares  – – – – – (4.4) – (4.4)
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 2.3 (2.3) –
At 2 July 2016 4.7 67.4 73.9 1.6 0.7 (70.9) 519.7 597.1
 
 
Company balance sheet 
as at 2 July 2016 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 161 
Registered No: 02100855 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
(restated – 
see note 9)
£m
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 3 1.5 1.8
Tangible assets 4 172.7 162.9
Investments 5 215.1 215.1
Financial assets 9 0.2 –
  389.5 379.8
  
Current assets  
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 574.2 660.7
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 14.9 16.3
Cash on deposit  0.4 1.2
Financial assets 9 0.6 –
  590.1 678.2
  
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (67.6) (115.1)
Financial liabilities 9 (10.3) (19.1)
  
Net current assets  512.2 544.0
  
Total assets less current liabilities  901.7 923.8
  
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (269.2) (269.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 12 1.5 (56.7)
Provisions  10 (32.8) (20.9)
Financial liabilities  9 (4.1) (5.5)
  
Net assets  597.1 571.3
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital 13 4.7 4.7
Share premium  67.4 67.4
Revaluation reserve 13 73.9 77.1
Share premium reserve 13 1.6 1.6
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Reserve for own shares  (70.9) (68.8)
Retained earnings  519.7 488.6
Total equity  597.1 571.3
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick Butcher,  
Group Chief Financial Officer 
8 September 2016 
 
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 161 Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the  
company financial statements 
162 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for  
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare  
the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law) including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
directors are required to:  
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
• state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.  
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company, and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
162 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the  
company financial statements 
162 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for  
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare  
the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law) including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
directors are required to:  
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
• state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.  
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company, and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 163 
1. Company accounting policies 
Authorisation of financial statemen ts and statement of compliance 
with FRS101 
The Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the 
year ended 2 July 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
directors on 8 September 2016 and the balance sheet was signed on the 
Board’s behalf by Patrick Butcher. The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public 
limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered 
office in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are publicly 
traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of 
any single shareholder. 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS101) and in 
line with the recognition and measurement criteria of IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as 
disclosed in detail on page 106. 
No profit or loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by 
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Basis of preparation 
The Company transitioned to FRS101from the UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice during the year ended 28 June 2014. The Company  
adopted FRS101 early, which is permitted under the standard.  
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply  
in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 2 July 2016. 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention. 
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling and are rounded  
to the nearest one hundred thousand (£0.1m). 
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions 
available under FRS101 in respect of the following disclosures: 
• the requirements of paragraph 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS2 Share  
Based Payment; 
• the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(b), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), 
B64(j) to B64(m), b64(n)(ii), B64(o)(ii), B64(p), B64(Q)(ii), B66 and B67 
of IFRS3 Business Combinations; 
• the requirement of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
• the requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 Fair Value 
Measurement; 
• the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements to present comparative information in respect of: 
• paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS1; 
• paragraph 73(e) of IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment; 
• paragraph 118(e) of IAS38 Intangible Assets 
• the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 39(c), 40A, 40B, 40C, 
40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements; 
• the requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cashflows; 
• the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; 
• the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures; 
• the requirements in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related 
party transactions entered into between two or more members of a 
group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is 
wholly owned by such a member; and 
• the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of 
IAS36 Impairment of Assets. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out 
in note 12. The Company engages with Willis Towers Watson, a global 
professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, 
to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these 
estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to our particular circumstances. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of 
claims not yet reported to the Company, as detailed in note 10. In order 
to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Company engages with its 
brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise of our claims 
development history is adequately built in to the provision. 
Accounting policies 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income 
will flow to the Company and the value can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable and comprises intercompany management charges and 
property rental. 
Tangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on 
transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in 
value. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on deemed cost 
or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its 
expected useful life as follows: 
Leasehold land and buildings  The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings    Over 50 to 100 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication 
exists the assets are written down to their recoverable amount. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost 
less provision for impairment. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 163 Notes to the Company financial statements  
164 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
1. Company accounting policies continued 
Pension benefits 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is 
determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes 
entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current 
service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the 
present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial 
advice. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in the 
income statement within finance costs. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement 
(eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment 
(reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the 
scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the 
obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet 
comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a 
discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair value of 
plan assets out of which obligations are to be settled directly for The Go-
Ahead Group Pension Plan. Fair value is based on market price 
information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. 
For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits  
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
Share based payments 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to 
the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an 
external valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-
settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the 
price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); 
conditions not related to performances or service (non-vesting condition); 
performance conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions  
(a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting 
date, reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and 
the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. This includes any 
award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or 
the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting 
condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-
settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is 
recognised immediately.  
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an 
undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the 
related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial 
statements. It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement  
is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised  
in the income statement.  
Uninsured liabilities 
The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and 
public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. 
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an 
annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits. A 
provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Company to settle 
claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to 
the overall stop loss.  
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate 
professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected 
settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that 
will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet 
date but that have not yet been reported to the Company. 
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, are 
deducted from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are 
also recognised in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own 
shares. Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Company’s shares is transferred from the reserve for own shares to 
revenue reserves. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair 
value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. 
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any 
gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other 
derecognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially  
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the 
Company, are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding 
liability being recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their 
useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included  
as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
 
164 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements  
164 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
1. Company accounting policies continued 
Pension benefits 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is 
determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes 
entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current 
service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the 
present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial 
advice. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in the 
income statement within finance costs. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement 
(eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment 
(reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the 
scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the 
obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet 
comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a 
discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair value of 
plan assets out of which obligations are to be settled directly for The Go-
Ahead Group Pension Plan. Fair value is based on market price 
information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. 
For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits  
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
Share based payments 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to 
the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an 
external valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-
settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the 
price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); 
conditions not related to performances or service (non-vesting condition); 
performance conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions  
(a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting 
date, reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and 
the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. This includes any 
award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or 
the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting 
condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-
settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is 
recognised immediately.  
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an 
undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the 
related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial 
statements. It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement  
is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised  
in the income statement.  
Uninsured liabilities 
The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and 
public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. 
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an 
annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits. A 
provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Company to settle 
claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to 
the overall stop loss.  
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate 
professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected 
settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that 
will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet 
date but that have not yet been reported to the Company. 
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, are 
deducted from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are 
also recognised in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own 
shares. Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Company’s shares is transferred from the reserve for own shares to 
revenue reserves. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair 
value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. 
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any 
gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other 
derecognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially  
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the 
Company, are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding 
liability being recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their 
useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included  
as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
 
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 165 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and represents a constant 
proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease 
incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Provisions for liabilities 
A provision is recognised when the Company has a legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the effect  
of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted. Where  
the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the 
reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery  
is virtually certain. 
Financial instruments 
The Company uses interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with 
interest rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and 
subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. 
Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, being the 
transaction price plus, in the case of financial instruments not recorded at 
fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.  
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated  
and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. When the cashflow hedge results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that 
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset 
or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income 
statement as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which 
point it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying 
amount of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Software 
Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an 
intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment  
in value. Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over  
its expected useful life of three to five years. 
2. Dividends  
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3
Interim dividend for 2016: 28.33p per share (2015: 26.6p) 12.2 11.4
 39.4 36.7
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 2 July 2016) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share (2015: 63.4p) 29.0 27.2
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 165 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
166 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Intangible assets 
Software
£m
Cost or valuation: 
At 27 June 2015 10.1
Additions 0.8
At 2 July 2016 10.9
 
Amortisation: 
At 27 June 2015 8.3
Charge for the year 1.1
At 2 July 2016 9.4
 
Net book value: 
At 2 July 2016 1.5
At 27 June 2015 1.8
4. Tangible assets 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Long term 
leasehold land 
and buildings
£m
Short term 
leasehold land  
and buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation:  
At 27 June 2015 169.4 0.4 4.4 9.9 184.1
Additions 12.9 – – 0.4 13.3
Disposals (1.7) – – – (1.7)
At 2 July 2016 180.6 0.4 4.4 10.3 195.7
  
Depreciation:  
At 27 June 2015 11.9 – 1.3 8.0 21.2
Charge for the year 0.6 – 0.3 0.9 1.8
At 2 July 2016 12.5 – 1.6 8.9 23.0
  
Net book value:  
At 2 July 2016 168.1 0.4 2.8 1.4 172.7
At 27 June 2015 157.5 0.4 3.1 1.9 162.9
Freehold land and buildings include non-depreciable land amounting to £117.0m (2015: £111.3m). 
  
166 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
166 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Intangible assets 
Software
£m
Cost or valuation: 
At 27 June 2015 10.1
Additions 0.8
At 2 July 2016 10.9
 
Amortisation: 
At 27 June 2015 8.3
Charge for the year 1.1
At 2 July 2016 9.4
 
Net book value: 
At 2 July 2016 1.5
At 27 June 2015 1.8
4. Tangible assets 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Long term 
leasehold land 
and buildings
£m
Short term 
leasehold land  
and buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation:  
At 27 June 2015 169.4 0.4 4.4 9.9 184.1
Additions 12.9 – – 0.4 13.3
Disposals (1.7) – – – (1.7)
At 2 July 2016 180.6 0.4 4.4 10.3 195.7
  
Depreciation:  
At 27 June 2015 11.9 – 1.3 8.0 21.2
Charge for the year 0.6 – 0.3 0.9 1.8
At 2 July 2016 12.5 – 1.6 8.9 23.0
  
Net book value:  
At 2 July 2016 168.1 0.4 2.8 1.4 172.7
At 27 June 2015 157.5 0.4 3.1 1.9 162.9
Freehold land and buildings include non-depreciable land amounting to £117.0m (2015: £111.3m). 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 167 
5. Investments 
Loans to  
Group 
£m 
Shares in Group 
companies
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 63.2 151.9 215.1
  
Provisions:   
At 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 – – –
  
Net carrying amount:  
At 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 63.2 151.9 215.1
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a transaction involving certain properties used by the Group. This has been 
accounted for as a sale and leaseback and results in a long term investment of £63.2m in an intermediate Group company. 
For details of the subsidiary undertakings as at 2 July 2016, refer to note 28 of the Group financial statements.  
6. Debtors 
Amounts falling due within one year 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated – 
see note 9)
£m
Amounts owed by Group companies 552.9 640.0
Corporation tax 8.7 11.1
Other debtors 12.6 9.6
 574.2 660.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated – 
see note 9)
£m
Amounts owed by Group companies 14.9 16.3
 14.9 16.3
7. Creditors 
Amounts falling due within one year 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated – 
see note 9)
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 50.8 95.1
Other creditors 15.5 18.9
Finance leases (note 8) 1.3 1.1
 67.6 115.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated – 
see note 9)
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings repayable: 
 In more than one year but not more than five years 199.1 198.2
Finance leases (note 8) 69.9 71.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.2 –
 269.2 269.4
Included in finance leases is an amount of £71.2m (2015: £72.3m) owing to Group undertakings.  
The Company has no security over its liabilities.  
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 167 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
168 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
8. Finance leases 
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a sale and leaseback of certain properties used by the Group. Future 
minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, for the sale and leaseback of these 
properties are as follows:  
2016  2015 
Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments 
£m 
 Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 4.4 1.3  4.2 1.1
After one year but not more than five years 18.8 7.1  18.2 6.2
After five years 86.4 62.8  91.3 65.0
Total minimum lease payments 109.6 71.2  113.7 72.3
Less amounts representing finance charges (38.4) –  (41.4) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 71.2 71.2  72.3 72.3
9.  Financial instruments  
The fair values of the Group's financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 and are  
as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Financial assets due after more than one year 0.2 –
Financial assets due within one year 0.6 –
 0.8 –
Financial liabilities due within one year (10.3) (19.1)
Financial liabilities due after more than one year (4.1) (5.5)
 (14.4) (24.6)
Net financial instruments (13.6) (24.6)
Following the adoption of IFRS as the reporting framework across the Group’s bus subsidiaries for the year ended 2 July 2016 the Directors have 
reviewed the treatment under IFRS of all the Group’s intercompany trading arrangements. As part of this process they have considered the associated 
balance sheet treatment of the fuel hedge contracts which are transacted by the plc company and then contracted ‘back to back’ through the bus and 
rail trading subsidiaries. These were previously treated as if they were passed through to the subsidiaries involved. Following the review it has been 
determined that the accounting treatment should be corrected to show the positions contracted with external parties and the corresponding financial 
asset or liability due from or to the subsidiary involved. This has had no impact on profit or loss for the period with the offsetting assets and liabilities 
now recognised in the balance sheet with the comparatives restated. There has been no change to the accounting policies or practices in the 
consolidated accounts as a result of this change. 
10. Provisions 
Deferred taxation 
(note 11)
£m
Uninsured claims  
£m 
 Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 27 June 2015 13.3 7.3 0.3 20.9
Provided (after discounting) – 1.7 – 1.7
Released – (3.4) – (3.4)
Utilised – 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax debited to profit and loss 0.6 – – 0.6
Deferred tax on LTIP debited outside of profit and loss 0.5 – – 0.5
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans debited outside of profit and loss 11.3 – – 11.3
Unwinding of discounting – 0.3 – 0.3
As at 2 July 2016 25.7 6.8 0.3 32.8
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group 
by the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within six years. 
The other provision relates to dilapidation costs. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to three years. 
  
168 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
168 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
8. Finance leases 
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a sale and leaseback of certain properties used by the Group. Future 
minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, for the sale and leaseback of these 
properties are as follows:  
2016  2015 
Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments 
£m 
 Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 4.4 1.3  4.2 1.1
After one year but not more than five years 18.8 7.1  18.2 6.2
After five years 86.4 62.8  91.3 65.0
Total minimum lease payments 109.6 71.2  113.7 72.3
Less amounts representing finance charges (38.4) –  (41.4) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 71.2 71.2  72.3 72.3
9.  Financial instruments  
The fair values of the Group's financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 and are  
as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Financial assets due after more than one year 0.2 –
Financial assets due within one year 0.6 –
 0.8 –
Financial liabilities due within one year (10.3) (19.1)
Financial liabilities due after more than one year (4.1) (5.5)
 (14.4) (24.6)
Net financial instruments (13.6) (24.6)
Following the adoption of IFRS as the reporting framework across the Group’s bus subsidiaries for the year ended 2 July 2016 the Directors have 
reviewed the treatment under IFRS of all the Group’s intercompany trading arrangements. As part of this process they have considered the associated 
balance sheet treatment of the fuel hedge contracts which are transacted by the plc company and then contracted ‘back to back’ through the bus and 
rail trading subsidiaries. These were previously treated as if they were passed through to the subsidiaries involved. Following the review it has been 
determined that the accounting treatment should be corrected to show the positions contracted with external parties and the corresponding financial 
asset or liability due from or to the subsidiary involved. This has had no impact on profit or loss for the period with the offsetting assets and liabilities 
now recognised in the balance sheet with the comparatives restated. There has been no change to the accounting policies or practices in the 
consolidated accounts as a result of this change. 
10. Provisions 
Deferred taxation 
(note 11)
£m
Uninsured claims  
£m 
 Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 27 June 2015 13.3 7.3 0.3 20.9
Provided (after discounting) – 1.7 – 1.7
Released – (3.4) – (3.4)
Utilised – 0.9 – 0.9
Deferred tax debited to profit and loss 0.6 – – 0.6
Deferred tax on LTIP debited outside of profit and loss 0.5 – – 0.5
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans debited outside of profit and loss 11.3 – – 11.3
Unwinding of discounting – 0.3 – 0.3
As at 2 July 2016 25.7 6.8 0.3 32.8
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group 
by the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within six years. 
The other provision relates to dilapidation costs. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to three years. 
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169 
11. Deferred taxation 
Deferred taxation provided at the enacted rate is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Capital allowances in advance of depreciation 3.5 3.0
Other timing differences 8.6 6.2
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 13.3 15.4
Retirement benefit obligations 0.3 (11.3)
Deferred taxation (note 10) 25.7 13.3
12. Pension commitments 
Defined contribution 
During the year ended 2 July 2016, the Company participated in the defined contribution scheme of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan (the Go-Ahead 
Plan). This scheme is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme. It is now closed to new entrants and has been replaced by a workplace 
saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme. The expense recognised in these accounts for the year in respect of the defined 
contribution scheme of the Go-Ahead Plan was £0.4m (2015: £0.4m), being the contributions paid and payable. The expense recognised for the 
workplace saving scheme was less than £0.1m (2015: less than £0.1m), being the contributions paid and payable. 
Defined benefit 
During the year ended 2 July 2016, the Company participated in a scheme which is part of the Go-Ahead Plan. The assets of the scheme are held 
separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.  
The defined benefit section of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan has been closed to new entrants and closed to future accrual. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 31 March 2015 and was updated by Willis Towers Watson to take account of the 
requirements of IAS 19 (revised) in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 2 July 2016. 
The total net assets and liabilities of the scheme are recognised on the Company balance sheet. 
The following disclosures provide details of the entire defined benefit scheme.  
The main assumptions are: 
 
2016
%
2015
%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pensions 1.9 2.0
Discount rate 2.8 3.8
Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the 
accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of the pension scheme at age 65. 
 
2016
Years
2015
Years
Pensioner 21 20
Non-pensioner 22 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, the following is an approximate sensitivity 
analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
 
2016
Pension deficit
%
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7) (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6
The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods. The use of 0.1% and 1 year in the sensitivity analysis is 
considered to be a reasonable approximation of possible changes, as these variations can regulary arise. 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 169 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
170 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
12. Pension commitments continued 
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following table shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan. 
2016
£m
June 2017 22.5
June 2018 23.0
June 2019 23.5
June 2020 24.1
June 2021 24.6
June 2022 to June 2026 131.5
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 266.8 35.5  245.3 37.9
Bonds 15.8 2.1  14.9 2.3
Property 68.4 9.1  60.2 9.3
Liability driven investing portfolio 392.3 52.2  306.1 47.3
Cash/other 8.2 1.1  20.7 3.2
 751.5 100.0  647.2 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (750.0) (703.9)
Assets at fair value 751.5 647.2
Pension scheme assets / (liabilities) 1.5 (56.7)
Deferred tax (liability) / asset (0.3) 11.3
Post-tax pension scheme assets / (liabilities) 1.2 (45.4)
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Administration costs 1.8 2.2
Settlement (gain) / loss (0.5) 0.5
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.0 2.3
Total pension costs 3.3 5.0
Analysis of the change in the pension sc heme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 703.9 648.8
Interest cost  25.9 26.6
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
Experience on benefit obligations (68.8) (21.9)
Changes in demographic assumptions 10.6 –
Changes in financial assumptions 101.0 93.1
Settlement gain (0.5) –
Transfer payments (bulk) – (17.9)
Benefits paid (22.1) (24.8)
Pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 750.0 703.9
  
170 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
170 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
12. Pension commitments continued 
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following table shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan. 
2016
£m
June 2017 22.5
June 2018 23.0
June 2019 23.5
June 2020 24.1
June 2021 24.6
June 2022 to June 2026 131.5
Category of assets at the year end 
2016  2015 
£m %  £m %
Equities 266.8 35.5  245.3 37.9
Bonds 15.8 2.1  14.9 2.3
Property 68.4 9.1  60.2 9.3
Liability driven investing portfolio 392.3 52.2  306.1 47.3
Cash/other 8.2 1.1  20.7 3.2
 751.5 100.0  647.2 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (750.0) (703.9)
Assets at fair value 751.5 647.2
Pension scheme assets / (liabilities) 1.5 (56.7)
Deferred tax (liability) / asset (0.3) 11.3
Post-tax pension scheme assets / (liabilities) 1.2 (45.4)
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Administration costs 1.8 2.2
Settlement (gain) / loss (0.5) 0.5
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.0 2.3
Total pension costs 3.3 5.0
Analysis of the change in the pension sc heme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 703.9 648.8
Interest cost  25.9 26.6
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
Experience on benefit obligations (68.8) (21.9)
Changes in demographic assumptions 10.6 –
Changes in financial assumptions 101.0 93.1
Settlement gain (0.5) –
Transfer payments (bulk) – (17.9)
Benefits paid (22.1) (24.8)
Pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 750.0 703.9
  
 
The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171 
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year 647.2 591.7
Interest income on plan assets 23.9 24.3
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 99.5 71.9
Administration costs (1.8) (2.2)
Group contributions 4.8 4.7
Transfer payments (bulk) – (18.4)
Benefits paid (22.1) (24.8)
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year 751.5 647.2
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2017 6.5
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2017 –
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2017 6.5
Risks associated with defined benefit plans  
Risks associated with the defined benefit plan are outlined in note 27 to the Group financial statements. 
13. Issued capital and reserves 
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
Millions
2016 
£m Millions
2015
£m
As 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income and have a par value of 10p per share. 
The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,017,412 ordinary shares (8.6% of total share capital), of which 115,182 are held for LTIP and DSBP 
arrangements. The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders’ returns and are being held as treasury shares for re-issue in 
appropriate circumstances. During the year ended 2 July 2016 the Company has repurchased 172,964 shares (2015: no shares purchased). The 
Company has not cancelled any shares during the year (2015: no shares cancelled). 
The revaluation reserve represents the value of properties involved in an asset backed funding transaction with the Go-Ahead Pension Plan, adjusted for 
amortisation, together with historic revaluation balances. The movement on the revaluation reserve represents the write down of the revaluation 
reserve over the expected useful life of the properties, offsetting the depreciation charges being taken to the profit or loss account. 
The share premium reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group. This 
treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The information required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013 is provided in the directors’ report. 
The audit fee payable in respect of the Company was £0.1m (2015: £0.1m). Other fees payable to the auditor in respect of the Company were less 
than £0.1m (2015: less than £0.1m). Please refer to note 5 of the Group consolidated financial statements. 
14. Operating lease commitments 
The Company’s future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are as follows: 
 
Bus Property 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.6
In second to fifth years 1.1 0.8
More than five years 1.3 1.0
 2.6 2.4
 
  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 171 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
172 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
15. Capital commitments 
There were capital commitments of £nil at 2 July 2016 (2015: £nil). 
16. Contingent liabilities 
The Company provides guarantees in respect of bank and equipment finance borrowings of the subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc. 
The Company has issued guarantees dated 30 March 2006 to participating subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan in respect of scheme 
liabilities arising. Total assets in respect of this guaranteed scheme were £1.2m as at 2 July 2016 (2015: liabliity of £45.4m). 
At 2 July 2016 letters of credit amounting to £45.0m (2015: £45.0m) were provided by a Company banker, guaranteed by the Company, in favour of 
one of the Group’s insurers, to cover liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
17. Share based payments 
Full disclosures of the Group’s Sharesave scheme, SIP, LTIP and DSBP are given in note 6 to the Group financial statements. 
18. Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS101, and transactions with 100% subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc have not  
been disclosed. 
The Company owns 65% of the ordinary shares in Govia Limited. London and Southeastern Railway Limited (Southeastern), London and Birmingham 
Railway Limited (London Midland), Thameslink Rail Limited (Thameslink), New Southern Railway Limited (New Southern), Southern Railway Limited 
(Southern) and Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR) are 100% owned by Govia Limited and hence the Company owns a 65% interest. 
 Govia Southeastern London Midland  Thameslink  New Southern  Southern GTR 
 
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Interest paid to related party 0.3 0.3 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Loans to related party – (90.0) – – – – – – – – – – – –
Repayment of loan from 
related party – 28.0 – – – – – – – – – –
– –
Management charges – – 2.3 1.3 1.5 1.1 – – – – 0.1 1.3 2.5 2.2
Amounts owed from 
related party 30.2 30.4 1.8 – 0.7 1.8 – – – – – – 7.1 16.9
Amounts owed to related party – – – 1.8 – – 0.6 0.6 11.0 11.0 – 8.7 – –
During the year Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR have traded with wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company; £13.1m  
(2015: £16.6m) of costs were incurred by Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR on an arm’s length basis.  
172 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial calendar
Final dividend record date 11 November 2016
AGM 3 November 2016
Final dividend payment date 25 November 2016
Half year end 31 December 2016
Half year results announcement 23 February 2017
Half year dividend payment April 2017
Next financial year end 1 July 2017
Full year results announcement 7 September 2017
Annual general meeting
The 29th AGM of the Group will be held at the Hilton Newcastle 
Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR on Thursday 3 November 
2016 at 11.00am. Details of the business to be considered can be found in 
the Notice of Meeting which will be available on the Group’s corporate 
website (www.go-ahead.com) from 30 September 2016. 
Dividend payments
The dividend dates are available on our corporate website in the financial 
calendar. Following each dividend payment date we will send a tax voucher 
to your home address. Please therefore ensure that Equiniti have your 
correct address and bank details.
We recommend that you arrange for your dividends to be paid directly into 
your bank account:
• T o avoid the risk of losing a cheque in the post and thereby incurring a 
replacement fee
• For faster receipt of your dividend which is paid into your account on the 
payment date, rather than waiting for a cheque to be delivered, deposited 
and cleared
T o select this method of dividend payment, please contact Equiniti directly 
using the details on page 176. 
Managing your shares
The Group’s Registrar, Equiniti, is responsible for maintaining our register of 
members. Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should 
contact Equiniti directly. 
Shareholders can sign up for a Shareview portfolio which enables you to:
• View information regarding your holding
• Change your address and bank details online
• Sell or purchase shares in the Group online
Go to www.shareview.co.uk and click on ‘Shareview Portfolio: find out more 
& register’ to sign up for these services. When completing your details you 
will need your shareholder reference number which is the 11 digit number 
found on your latest tax voucher or share certificate. 
Duplicate documents
If you have more than one registered shareholder account, you will receive 
duplicate documentation and split dividend payments. T o request that your 
accounts be combined, please contact Equiniti. 
Electronic communications
As far as possible, the Group provides shareholder documents via the 
corporate website. If you wish to receive future shareholder communications 
electronically, please sign up via Shareview (see ‘Managing your shares’ 
section). By electing to receive shareholder communications electronically 
you will be allowing us to communicate with you securely in a more 
environmentally friendly and cost effective way.
Warning to shareholders
Shareholders are advised to be extremely cautious of any unsolicited advice 
from third parties; offers to buy shares at a discount; or offers of free reports 
about the Group. By law, the Group’s register of members is open to public 
inspection however, we do not endorse any specific share dealing facilities; 
will not pass on shareholder information to any third party; and any requests 
for access to the register are subject to ‘proper purpose’ requirements which 
ensure that personal data is not used unlawfully.
Shareholder information
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 173 Shareholder profile by size of holding as at 2 July 2016
No. of holdings % T otal shares held
% Issued share 
capital
1 - 10,000 2,875 92.32 2,093,532 4.46
10,001-100,000 166 5.33 5,818,143 12.40
100,001-500,000 51 1.64 10,717,220 22.85
500,001-1,000,000 13 0.42 9,461,990 20.17
Over 1,000,001 9 0.29 18,816,924 40.12
T otal 3,114 100 46,907,809* 100
* This total includes 3,902,230 shares held in treasury. 
Shareholder profile by category as at 2 July 2016
No. of holdings
Number of 
shares % of holdings % of shares
Treasury shares 1 3,902,230 0.03 8.32
Directors 6 49,939 0.19 0.11
Other individuals 2,437 3,934,199 78.26 8.39
Institutional investors 670 39,021,441 21.52 83.18
T otal 3,114 46,907,809* 100 100
* This total includes 3,902,230 shares held in treasury.
It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through nominee companies, therefore, the percentage of shares held by private holders is 
likely to be higher than that shown.
Major shareholders
In accordance with Rule 5.1.2R of the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Group had received the following notifications of 3% or 
more over the Group’s total voting rights and capital in issue as at 2 July 2016 and 8 September 2016 (being the latest practical date prior to the date of 
this report):
Number of 
shares held as at 
2 July 2016
1
% of voting 
rights held 
Nature  
of holding
Number of 
shares held as at 
8 September 
2016
1
% of voting 
rights held
Nature  
of holding
JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited 2,129,423 4.95 Direct 2,129,423 4.95 Direct
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 2,714,875 6.31 Direct (0.02%) & 
indirect (6.29%) 
2,714,875 6.31 Direct (0.02%)  
& indirect (6.29%) 
Old Mutual plc 2,666,116 6.20 Indirect (6.18) & 
CFD
2
 (0.02%) 
121,050 0.28 Indirect (0.28%)  
& CFD
2
 (0.00%)
Henderson Group plc – – – 2,101,238 4.88 Indirect
1. These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients’ interests within the respective asset management companies. No further 
notifications have been received; however, the above holdings may have changed without triggering a further notification.
2. Contract for Difference
Shareholder information continued
174 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder and control structure
As at 2 July 2016, the Group’s issued share capital comprised a single class of 
shares referred to as ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 10p each. As at 
this date, there were 46,907,809 ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 
were held in treasury. 
The Group did not purchase any of its own shares during the year either for 
cancellation or to hold as treasury shares, and no such shares were 
purchased between the period end and the date of this report. However, 
Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, the Trustees of The Go-Ahead 
Group Employee Trust (the Trust), purchased 172,964 ordinary shares of 
10p each in the Group as part of a planned program of share purchases 
(2015: nil) to satisfy awards made under the Group’s Long T erm Incentive 
Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards. Since the period end and the 
date of this report, the Trust purchased 32,704 ordinary shares of 10p each 
in the Group. 
The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights 
other than:
• Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider trading laws)
• Restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval 
of the Group to deal in the Group’s securities
All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, regardless of the 
total number of shares held. On a show of hands at a general meeting of the 
Group, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote (except in the circumstance where a proxy has 
been appointed by more than one member, in which case he or she will 
have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been instructed by 
one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more 
members to vote against). On a poll, every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held. The 
Notice of Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either in 
person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2016 AGM. 
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in 
relation to each resolution are announced as soon as practicable  
following the AGM and published on the Group’s corporate website  
(www.go-ahead.com) after the meeting.
The authorities for the Group to allot relevant securities (up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,433,471, and for the disapplication of pre-emption 
rights on the allotment of equity securities (for cash up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £215,021), as passed by ordinary and special resolutions 
at the 2015 AGM, were not utilised in the financial year or up to the date of 
this report. 
These authorities will expire at the 2016 AGM and approval for new 
authorities will be sought. In the last three years no shares have been issued 
on a non-preemptive basis, other than those issued under all-employee 
share schemes which are not included for the purposes of this authority.
The authority for the Group to make market purchases of its own ordinary 
shares, as passed by special resolution at the 2015 AGM, was still in effect at 
the end of the financial year and will expire at the 2016 AGM when approval 
for a new authority will be sought. 
Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of shares that 
can be purchased is 4,300,412. The authority also limits the maximum 
number of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the 
Group and states minimum and maximum prices payable for shares 
purchased under the authority. During the financial year this authority was 
not utilised. 
Each of the Group’s rail franchise agreements is subject to change of control 
criteria that would mean, on a change of control, there would be deemed to 
be an ‘event of default’ that could potentially terminate the rail franchise. This 
is, however, subject to the discretion of the Secretary of State. Additionally, 
the Group’s sterling bond issue dated 24 March 2010, the revolving credit 
facility dated 16 July 2014 and the term loan dated 26 August 2016 are 
subject to change of control clauses that contain certain specified conditions 
which could lead to a compulsory prepayment of the bond and loan 
respectively. Transport for London also has powers to prevent the operation 
of London Bus contracts by an existing operator which is the subject of a 
change of control. 
Corporate website
Our corporate website www.go-ahead.com provides a wealth of 
information on the Group and its activities. Information available on the site 
includes half year results and interim management statements, which are not 
sent to shareholders, as well as share price data, dividend information and 
the financial calendar. Y ou can register to receive email alerts when the 
website has been updated with announcements, press releases and 
other publications.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 175 Corporate information
www.go-ahead.com
enquiries@go-ahead.com
Secretary and Registered Office
Carolyn Ferguson  
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey Street 
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE
T el: 0191 232 3123
Head Office
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
4 Matthew Parker Street,  
London, SW1H 9NP
T el: 020 7799 8999
Registrar
Equiniti Ltd 
Aspect House, Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
T el: 0371 384 2193 *
Auditor
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London, EC4A 3BZ
Joint Corporate Broker
Investec Bank plc 
2 Gresham Street 
London, EC2V 7QP
Joint Corporate Broker
Jefferies Hoare Govett Ltd 
Vintners Place 
Upper Thames Street 
London, EC4V 3BJ
Principal Banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Corporate Banking 
8th Floor, 135 Bishopsgate 
London, EC2M 3UR
Financial PR Advisors
Citigate Dewe Rogerson 
3 London Wall Buildings 
London, EC2M 5SY
* Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday
176 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Summary verification statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has provided verification for The 
Go-Ahead Group plc over selected sustainability Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI) data contained within the 
Group’s annual report covering the period 28 June 2015 
to 2 July 2016. 
The full verification statement including the verification scope 
and  Bureau Veritas’ verification opinion, methodology, areas 
of good practice, recommendations and a statement of 
independence and impartiality can be found on 
The Go-Ahead Group website: 
www.go-ahead.com/sustainability
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
This report is printed on Arctic Matt paper. Manufactured 
at a mill that is FSC® accredited, certified to both  
ISO 14001 Environmental
Management and the European Eco-Management  
and Audit Schemes
Printed by Principal Colour. Principal Colour are 
ISO 14001 certified,  alcohol free and FSC® Chain 
of Custody certified
Photography by Martin Burton 
www.martin-burton.squarespace.com Registered Office
The Go-Ahead Group plc  
3rd Floor 41–51 Grey Street 
Newcastle Upon Tyne 
NE1 6EE
T el: +44 (0) 191 232 3123
Head Office
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
4 Matthew Parker Street 
Westminster 
London SW1H 9NP
T el: +44 (0) 20 7799 8999
www.go-ahead.com
enquiries@go-ahead.com 
