 TIME WELL SPENT
Annual report 2016
—
GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 Greene King is the
LEADING PUB COMPANY 
AND BREWER IN BRITAIN
—
Greene King is the country’s leading integrated 
pub retailer and brewer. In June 2015 we acquired 
Spirit Pub Company. At our year end we operated 
3,035 managed, tenanted, leased and franchised 
pubs, restaurants and hotels, including well known 
brands such as Hungry Horse, Chef & Brewer, 
Flaming Grill, Farmhouse Inns and our Greene King 
locals estate. We also have a proud history of brewing 
award-winning ales for more than 200 years and our 
leading ale brand portfolio includes Old Speckled Hen, 
Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale and Belhaven Best.
3,035
PUBS, RESTAURANTS
AND HOTELS STRATEGIC REPORT
2 Investment case
4 Performance highlights
5 Chairman’s statement
6 Focus area – Best for customers
8 Focus area – Best for teams
10 Focus area – Best for communities
12 Chief executive’s review
16 Our business model
18 Our markets
20 Our strategy
22 Key performance indicators
23 Operational review
 23 Pub Company
 26 Pub Partners
 28 Brewing & Brands
30 Financial review
33 Risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate social responsibility
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
46 Board of directors
47 Corporate governance statement
51 Nomination committee report
52 Audit committee report
55 Remuneration report
67 Directors’ report and disclosures
69 Directors’ responsibilities statements 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71 Independent auditor’s report
77 Group income statement
78 Group statement of comprehensive income 
79 Group balance sheet
80 	 G r o u p	 c a s h 	fl o w 	s t a t e m e n t 	
81 Group statement of changes in equity
82 Notes to the accounts 
117 Company balance sheet
118 Company statement of changes in equity
119 Notes to the company accounts
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
123 	 G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	r e c o r d
124 Shareholder information
IBC Glossary
VIEW THIS REPORT ONLINE
greenekingreports.com/ar16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 2
STRATEGIC REPORT
Investment case
Our	overall	vision	is	to
BUILD THE BEST PUBS 
BUSINESS IN BRITAIN
—
1 
COMPELLING BLEND OF 
GROWTH AND DIVIDENDS
Over the last five years our proven growth strategy, combined 
with our attractive dividend policy, has delivered a total 
shareholder return of 104% compared with a total return for 
the FTSE All-Share of 29%. This includes 29.2% growth in 
Greene King dividends and 67.1% share price appreciation.
1
1. Past performance is not an indicator of future returns.
GREENE KING SHARE PRICE 2011–2016 (p)
May 2011 May 2012 May 2013 May 2014 May 2015 May 2016
200
400
600
800
1,000
0
+67.1%
 – A compelling blend of growth 
and dividends
 – Significant and exciting 
opportunities following	the	
acquisition of	Spirit	Pub Company
 – Synergy, scale and reinvestment
 – Brand optimisation
 – Award-winning teams
 – A high quality, well positioned estate 
 – A strong and flexible balance sheet
Our overall vision is to build the best pubs 
business in Britain; best for our customers, 
best for our teams, best for our shareholders 
and best for our communities. 
Within this, our aim is to offer customers 
experiences that they will value, remember 
and want to share. We will achieve this 
aim principally through the delivery of our 
five strategic priorities that will ensure we 
offer compelling brand propositions, in 
high quality pubs, with unrivalled value, 
service and quality delivered by our 
award-winning teams.
TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2012–2016 (p)
5
10
15
20
25
35
30
+29.2%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
0 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
4 
A HIGH QUALITY, 
WELL POSITIONED ESTATE
As at 1 May 2016 we operated 3,035 managed and tenanted 
pubs. The acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, completed in the 
year, has increased our national presence while maintaining a 
focus on the South East (including London) and the East, 
where around	half	of	our	estate	is	situated.	
We own the freehold title on 83% of our estate. This gives us 
more freedom to renovate our pubs as we see fit and to buy and 
sell pubs when we want to in order to optimise growth and returns 
from the estate. It also removes the ongoing requirement to use 
a proportion of the cash that we generate to pay rent. We believe 
that these benefits, among others, outweigh the initial capital 
outlay associated with purchasing the freehold title of a pub.
Our preference is to hold the freehold title of our assets and, 
where it makes sense to do so, we will look to acquire the 
freehold title of leasehold pubs that we currently operate. 
2 
 S I G NIF I C A N T O P P O R T U NI T I E S 
FOLLOWING THE ACQUISITION 
OF SPIRIT PUB COMPANY
Synergy, scale and reinvestment
The acquisition of Spirit Pub Company was an important step 
towards achieving our vision to be the best pub company in Britain. 
In addition to enhanced brand reach and recognition, we have the 
opportunity to realise significant cost synergies. We have announced a 
target of £35m annualised cost savings and we will reinvest synergies 
in excess of this target in our people, our systems and our brands.
Brand optimisation
Greene King acquired a strong portfolio of brands and formats 
with Spirit – one that it would have been very difficult to replicate 
organically – and we have embarked on an exciting journey to 
optimise the combined brand portfolio. The brand optimisation 
programme will be an important driver of future growth 
and value 	creation.
We have identified five growth brands – Hungry Horse, Flaming Grill, 
Farmhouse Inns, Chef & Brewer and the Greene King brand.
The portfolio of growth brands and formats covers a wide range 
of consumer occasions.
Destination Local
Value
Mainstream
Premium Growth brands/formats
We estimate profit upside from investment in over 300 of our 
existing pubs to reposition them into these growth brands over 
the next three years. In 2016/17 we expect to spend £40–50m 
on converting	around	100	sites	to	a	growth	brand.
3 
AWARD-WINNING 
TEAMS
Our people are fundamental to the success of our business 
and being	the	first	choice	for	people	who	want	to	work	in	the	
hospitality sector is important to us. 
Key to this is our strategy to engage employees through learning 
and, having exceeded our target of offering 2,000 apprenticeships 
last year, we have committed to employing a further 10,000 
apprentices across the business over the next three years. 
During the year, we were recognised by the Sunday Telegraph as 
a Top 50 Apprenticeship Employer and following our investment in 
people and training we were named as the Macro Apprenticeship 
Employer of the Year 2016 by Apprenticeships 4 England.
5 
A STRONG AND FLEXIBLE 
BALANCE SHEET
Our aim is to maximise the strength and the flexibility of our 
balance sheet, and through a relentless focus on cash generation 
we will continue to cover our debt service obligation, our core 
capital expenditure and our dividend through internally generated 
cash flow.
As at 1 May 2016, our net debt relative to EBITDA stood at 
3.9x.
1
 We have successfully reduced this ratio in each of the last 
five years from 5.1x in 2012.
NET DEBT RELATIVE TO EBITDA  
(MULTIPLE OF EBITDA)
1
2
3
4
5
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
1
0
HALF
of the	estate	in 
the South	East 
and the	East
1. Pro-forma. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 4
STRATEGIC REPORT
510
240
330
420
2,200
1,000
1,400
1,800
Performance highlights
GROWTH IN ALL AREAS
—
REVENUE 
(£m)
£2,073.0m +57.6% 
EBITDA
2
 
(£m)
£496.9m +55.8%
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 
EXCEPTIONALS (£m)
£392.2m +53.1% 
ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
1,3
 (p)
69.9p +14.6% 
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
AND EXCEPTIONALS
3
 (£m)
£256.5m +52.2% 
DIVIDEND PER SHARE 
(p)
32.05p +7.7%
270
110
150
190
230
2016 2016 2015 2015 2014
(53 wks)
2014
(53 wks)
2013 2013 2012 2012
2,073.0
256.5
1,315.3
168.5
1,301.6
173.1
1,194.7
158.2
1,140.4
147.2
400
80
160
240
320
2016 2015 2013 2012
392.2
256.2
265.6
248.2
236.2
70 35.00
30 15.00
40 20.00
50 25.00
60 30.00
2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012
496.9
69.9
32.05
319.0
61.0
29.75
329.7
61.4
28.4
306.5
55.6
26.6
292.0
51.3
24.8
150
1.  As throughout, profit figures are shown 
before exceptional items.
2.  EBITDA represents earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptional items and is calculated 
as operating profit before exceptionals 
adjusted for the depreciation and 
amortisation charge for the period.
3.  2011–2013 adjusted for the impact 
of IAS	19(R).
4 .  P r e v i ousl y R e t a il .
5.  Coffer Peach Business tracker.
6.  Pro-forma, calculated by inclusion of 
Spirit management accounts data for 
the seven week pre-acquisition period. 
EBITDA is adjusted for exceptional 
items as detailed in note 3 of the 
financial statements.
Market outperformance
 – Pub Company
4
 like-for-like (LFL) sales +1.5%; 
ahead of the market 	+1.3%
5
 – Pub Partners LFL net income +2.7%
 – Brewing & Brands own-brewed volume (OBV) 
+2.9%;	ale market share up 	40	basis	points	to	10.5%
Financial strength
 – Operating cash flow +24.1%; net debt/EBITDA 
improved	to 3.9x
6
 – Group return on capital employed (ROCE) 
+10 basis	points	to	9.4%
 – Dividend per share up 7.7%, continuing 
our progressive	dividend	track record
Strategic and operational progress
 – Five strategic priorities outlined to drive future 
underlying growth
 – Record customer satisfaction scores in Greene King 
Pub Company;	net promoter	score	(NPS)	+7.9%pts
 – Greene King named Best Managed Pub Operator 
at the 2016	Publican	Awards
Acquired Spirit Pub Company; 
integration and synergies ahead of plan
 – £16.7m of cost synergies delivered versus year one 
target of £12m
 – Tenanted and leased integrated ahead of schedule; 
integration of the managed business well under way
 – Five retail growth brands identified and optimisation 
programme commenced to deliver long-term growth
600
2014
(53 wks)
2014
(53 wks)
2014
(53 wks)
2014
(53 wks) Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 5
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman’s statement
A STRONG BUSINESS
—
I became chairman of Greene King on 2 May 2016 and so this is my first 
report to you on the company, its performance and prospects. Greene King 
is a strong business with an excellent track record and, following the acquisition 
of Spirit Pub Company during the year, we are at an exciting time in our 
development. I look forward to working with the board and senior executive 
team to build upon the success of my predecessor in creating further value 
for all our stakeholders. 
Overview
2016 was a year of strong growth for Greene King, reflecting a continued 
good performance from the underlying business, enhanced by a substantial 
contribution from Spirit. Including a 45 week contribution from Spirit, group 
revenue grew 57.6% and exceeded £2bn. Including synergies, operating 
profit before exceptional items increased by 53.1% and profit before tax 
and exceptional items grew 52.2% to £256.5m, resulting in a 14.6% increase 
in adjusted earnings per share to 69.9p. Cash generation remained strong 
and net debt to EBITDA improved to 3.9x. Excellent progress has been made 
integrating the Spirit business and we realised synergies ahead of target 
in the	first	year.	
Dividend
As a result of this strong growth and reflecting confidence in future prospects, 
the board has recommended a final dividend of 23.6p, giving a total dividend 
for the year of 32.05p. This represents growth of 7.7% compared to last 
year and continues the long-term track record of progressive dividends. 
The board continues to target minimum cover of around two times earnings.
Our people
Greene King is a people business and the strength of the business performance 
during the Spirit integration demonstrates the dedication, hard work and 
passion of our teams. I would like to thank everyone who has worked so 
hard within the enlarged group during the last year to deliver such strong 
results while successfully integrating Spirit. 
Board changes
On 2 February 2016, it was announced that Tim Bridge would be retiring 
at the end of the financial year after more than 45 years with the company 
including ten years as chief executive followed by over ten years as chairman. 
Under Tim’s leadership, Greene King has been transformed and it is a testament 
to his astute assessment of people and business opportunities that the group 
is in such a good state both operationally and financially. It is a privilege to 
succeed	Tim	Bridge	as	chairman 	and	on	behalf	of	the	board	I would	like	to	
thank him for his enormous contribution to Greene King over the years. 
At the beginning of the financial year, Rob Rowley took over the role of 
senior independent director and will be taking the chairmanship of the audit 
committee at this year’s annual general meeting (AGM). Ian Durant will be 
retiring at the AGM after completing nine years as a director, latterly as chair 
of audit, and I wish to record our sincere thanks for his valuable input 
and advice 	over	this	period.	
Looking ahead
The choice available to the UK consumer who wants to enjoy a drink or 
a meal 	with	family	or	friends	has	never	been	wider	and	capital 	continues	
to be attracted to leisure dining. Greene King has great teams, great brands 
and great assets and is well placed within this dynamic environment. The 
recent decision by the UK to leave the EU will need time to be implemented 
and the uncertainty this brings is likely to weigh on the economy in the 
near term. We will not be immune from its effects, but our business has 
shown resilience in the past, our teams are motivated and, particularly 
following the Spirit acquisition, we have many opportunities. I look 
forward to reporting on our continued progress.
Philip Yea
Chairman
28 June 2016
“ We are at an exciting time 
in our development following 
the acquisition of Spirit.”
Chief executive’s review page 12
Board of directors page 46
Corporate governance page 47 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 6
STRATEGIC REPORT
 BEST FOR CUSTOMERS
—
We aim to be the best in the eyes of the customer, 
which means offering our customers 
industry‑leading value, service and quality, delivered 
by the best people and in high quality, appealing 
pubs with clear and exciting brands and formats.
We acquired a strong portfolio of brands with Spirit and, together 
with the existing Greene King brands and formats, we have begun a brand 
optimisation programme. We reviewed the combined portfolio in order 
to select those brands and formats that will drive future growth.
Focus area
We considered:
 – the relevance of the brand or format to current and future customers;
 – long-term opportunities to grow and expand the brand;
 – financial performance; and
 – proximity to other brands within the combined group to ensure 
that we have a balanced portfolio.
Following the review, our five growth brands are Hungry Horse, Flaming Grill, 
Chef & Brewer, Farmhouse Inns and the Greene King locals estate brand.
We then matched each pub with the most appropriate brand 
and selected a number of pubs in which to trial brand changes. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 7
STRATEGIC REPORT
In winter 2015, the ‘Bees Knees’ Fayre & Square 
in Leicester	reopened	as	the	‘Bees	Knees’	
Hungry Horse	–	a	pub	restaurant 	focusing	on	great	
value food and with zoning allowing more families 
to	dine in	a	comfortable	environment,	while	other	
customers enjoy the option to watch sport.
We are very pleased with the results to date: average weekly turnover has 
increased by 42% and we have generated a strong return on our investment.
We have had some positive feedback from our customers too!
BEES KNEES REFURBISHMENT
—
We commissioned a third party to ask our 
customers what they thought of the change for 
their local pub to the Hungry Horse brand. 
This research has confirmed that there is now an increased intention 
to eat	in	the	restaurant 	both	during	the	day	and	in	the	evening.	It	has	
also confirmed that the pub has become more family friendly and likely 
to be chosen as a venue to celebrate special occasions. These results are 
in line without overall strategic objective to build strong and attractive 
brands and 	within	this	to	broaden	the	appeal 	of	our	pubs.
Average weekly takings 
Before: £19.4k
After: £27.5k
28%
15%
Eat in the daytime
26%
12%
Bring my family
18%
6%
Come for special occasions
17%
9%
Eat in the evening
12%
7%
Use it for early evenings of social drinking
 “Looking ahead, for each of the following activities 
below, please say whether you think you will do this 
more often than before in this pub restaurant?”
Source: PDIQ Brand Conversion Research (Dec 2015)
 Pre conversion 
 Post conversion GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 8
STRATEGIC REPORT
 BEST FOR TEAMS
—
“ I really enjoy working in such a 
fast-paced team and developing not 
only my education, but also myself . 
I can see myself growing as a person 
and would recommend to anybody 
wanting to learn on the job to look 
into becoming an apprentice.”
Gabrielle Green, 18, an apprentice chef at the Ship in Bedford
Focus area Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 9
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our people make us who we are and they are our 
greatest asset. We employ more than 44,000 team 
members across the country, so attracting and retaining 
the best people, and developing and investing in 
them, is key to our continued success.
We want to offer the best for our teams and one of the ways in which 
we support their career aspirations is through our award‑ winning 
apprenticeship programme. 
Apprenticeships provide learners with valuable skills which will help 
them to build their career with us. Our programme offers bespoke 
qualifications that cover a range of jobs, including front of house, 
kitchen and management, which are tailored to each of our brands. 
Last year, we exceeded our pledge of recruiting 2,000 apprentices, 
with more than 3,100 starting their apprenticeship and working 
towards a nationally recognised qualification.
This year, we announced our pledge to recruit a further 10,000 apprentices over 
the next three years. This is our commitment to our people and also to 
young people looking for that all important first step on the career ladder.
The acquisition of Spirit Pub Company provided us with the opportunity 
to review both apprenticeship programmes and make improvements which 
will benefit the business in the years to come. The main development 
is that more of our team members are now able to access apprenticeship 
qualifications across the country.
Our apprenticeship programme continues to grow. We have seen a 
175% increase in applications to join Greene King as an apprentice 
compared to the previous year. We are seeing a particular increase in 
16–24 year olds interested in enrolling on our apprenticeship scheme 
and, as our business grows, we are committed to supporting this age 
group further by providing more opportunities to join.
Our apprenticeship programme has been recognised during the last 
12 months by winning a number of awards, including:
 – one of the Daily Telegraph and Top Apprenticeship Careers List’s 
Top 50 Apprenticeship Employers in the UK;
 – named as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer by the National 
Apprenticeship Service;
 – Apprenticeships 4 England’s Macro Employer of the Year;
 – VQ Employer of the Year; and
 – National Apprenticeship Service Regional Winner (East of England).
3,100
APPRENTICES STARTED 
LAST YEAR, EXCEEDING 
OUR PLEDGE OF 2,000
10,000
FURTHER APPRENTICES 
BY MARCH 2019
“ we believe we have a 
responsibility to support 
young people by creating 
these opportunities to earn 
and learn.” GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 10
STRATEGIC REPORT
Focus area
 BES T F OR 
 C OMMUNI T IE S
—
For centuries, pubs have been at the heart of the 
community and today we continue as our ancestors 
did before us by serving, and supporting, those who 
choose to spend time with us. We want to be the best 
we can be for our communities. One of the ways we 
support them is through our charity programme.
We wanted to unlock the powerful opportunity we have to raise money 
for important causes through our local community pubs so, in May 2012, 
we embarked on our first charity partnership with Macmillan Cancer 
Support. At that time, we set ourselves a stretching target of raising 
£1m in three years. We were delighted, and proud, to announce that 
after three and half years we had raised £2m.
We see our team members and guests as the real heroes as they pulled 
together to show such enthusiasm, passion, blood, sweat and tears to beat 
our fundraising goal. 
Some of the key pieces of activity during the last year included:
 – the World’s Biggest Coffee Morning;
 – the Hungry Horse Macmillan Week;
 – locals’ Macmillan Fundraising Month of May; and
 – in local communities, family fun days, bingo nights, bike rides, 
marathons, climbs and much more! 
This year, we were proud to receive the Pub Aid Award at the All Party 
Parliamentary Beer Group Annual Awards for our fundraising 
achievements for Macmillan. 
The impact and reward of the partnership is not just felt by Macmillan. 
It has helped us to connect with our local communities and allowed 
our team members to show their creativity, strength and bravery 
in their fundraising and build stronger relationships together. 
We know the £2m raised will make a huge impact on cancer patients and 
their families and, this year, we revealed we would continue our successful 
partnership with Macmillan for a further three years. The money raised 
over the next three years will continue to fund vital services such as 
Macmillan nurses and local support programmes supporting people 
with cancer to better self-manage in their own communities.
£2m
PROUD TO HAVE RAISED 
£2M FOR MACMILLAN 
CANCER SUPPORT
3 years
EXTENDED PARTNERSHIP 
FOR A FURTHER 
THREE YEARS Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 11
Our partnership with Greene King began in 
May 2012 and we continue to be overwhelmed 
by the generosity and ingenuity of Greene King 
employees and customers in raising money for 
Macmillan. The money that Greene King has raised 
will make a real difference to the lives of people 
affected by cancer and their families. It will provide 
practical, medical, financial and emotional support 
and will help them take back control of their lives.
At Macmillan we believe that 
no one should face cancer 
alone and with the continued 
support of our partner 
Greene King – no one will.”
Rachel Gascoigne, partnership manager at 
Macmillan Cancer Support STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief executive’s review
A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR
GROUP REVENUE WAS:
£2,073.0m
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS WAS UP:
53.1%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
AND EXCEPTIONALS WAS:
£256.5m
ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS 
PER SHARE GREW:
14.6%
It has been a transformational year for Greene King, with the acquisition 
of Spirit in June 2015 followed by significant progress integrating the ‘best 
of both’ businesses and realising cost synergies, helping to deliver further 
improvement in earnings and dividends, and strong returns. 
Trading environment
In the first half, improvements in the economic environment, including 
increased consumer confidence and sustained real income growth, were 
slow to positively impact the UK eating and drinking out market. As the 
UK referendum approached in the second half, the environment softened 
and consumers appeared more reluctant to spend discretionary income 
due to the uncertainty. 
Following the UK’s vote to leave the European Union, the increasingly 
uncertain trading environment is likely to weigh on consumer sentiment 
in the	near	term.	However,	Greene	King	has	a	strong	track	record	of	
performing well in challenging trading environments and we have levers 
to pull	within	our	business,	particularly 	following	the	Spirit	acquisition,	
to refocus	our	investment	and	help	limit	the	indirect	impact	from	lower	
consumer confidence. In addition, we have limited exposure to European 
sales, although we have some exposure to foreign exchange rate movements 
through overseas sourcing. We will look to mitigate the impact of this 
as far 	as	possible.	
Outside of the consequences of the vote, UK eating and drinking out 
remains a dynamic market with intense competition for every pound in 
the consumer pocket. This environment of increasing consumer choice 
extends beyond the traditional pub and restaurant sector and includes 
the supermarkets	and	the	takeaway 	aggregators 	who	have	made	eating	
at home	more	attractive. 	Understanding	this,	and	ensuring	our	offer	is	
compelling enough to compete successfully with this broader competitive 
set, is increasingly important for delivering long-term growth.
Consumers remain highly value conscious with a heightened awareness 
of price,	a	demand	for	excellent	and	personalised	service,	and	a	desire	for	
higher quality on the plate and in the glass. These trends will be exacerbated 
by the uncertainty surrounding Brexit and we are well positioned to take 
advantage of any weakening in spending power utilising our successful 
value brands and formats. 
They are also seeking experiences they can share with both friends and 
family and with a much wider audience on social media. Our aim is to create 
experiences that our customers will value and remember, and that they 
want to share with others. While digital and technology will increasingly 
contribute to the overall customer experience, it is the physical interaction 
with our people and our pubs that will enhance these experiences. We 
believe that our high quality estate, together with our approach to digital, 
can set us apart from our broad competitive set.
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 13
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our people are core to our business and we constantly strive to pay them 
appropriately for their hard work while also ensuring we maintain a high 
level of investment in their development and training. We remain confident 
of being able to mitigate most of the impact from the ongoing increases in 
the National Living Wage. We continue to expect the benefits of mitigating 
actions to be fully achieved in 2018/19 and there are no changes to our 
estimate that the incremental impact, over and above general wage inflation, 
will be £2m in the current financial year and will reach an annualised run 
rate of £6m per annum in 2018/19.
Now that the revised statutory Pubs Code has been announced, and 
assuming there are no further changes, we are planning for the introduction 
of the Code at the end of July 2016. We believe the overall financial impact 
on the group will be immaterial. 
Performance summary 
Total revenue grew 57.6% to £2,073.0m while operating profit
1
 was 53.1% 
higher than last year at £392.2m, including £16.7m of synergies achieved 
during the year. 
The operating margin was 18.9%, 0.6%pts lower than last year. This comprised 
a positive contribution from cost synergies, diluted by a higher contribution 
from managed pubs, higher lease costs following the Spirit acquisition and 
incremental investment in our people and in customer service.
In Pub Company, this investment in our people helped to drive LFL sales 
growth of 1.5%, ahead of the market
2
, and included LFL sales growth in 
the original Greene King managed estate of 1.9%. Total sales growth in 
Pub Company was 68.7% while operating profit grew by 56.8% to 
£299.2m. 13 new pubs were opened during the year. 
Having achieved a record customer satisfaction score in Greene King Pub 
Company in the first half, further progress was achieved in the second half 
resulting in a 7.9%pts increase in the full year. We also saw an improved trend 
in team member retention and in our food safety ratings. The improvements 
in these metrics indicate the success of our teams in continuing with 
business as usual during the integration process. 
The tenanted and leased businesses were successfully integrated at the end 
of the first half and the combined Pub Partners business grew LFL net income 
by 2.7% in the year. Average EBITDA per pub increased by 14.3% reflecting 
further improvements in estate quality as a result of the Spirit acquisition, 
the disposal of 48 pubs from the combined estate and synergy contribution. 
Brewing & Brands achieved record revenue of £196.9m, including 2.9% 
OBV growth, and we extended our share of the UK ale market by 40bps 
to 10.5%. Operating profit grew 9.7% to £32.7m.
The integration of Spirit progressed ahead of plan, with synergy realisation 
of £16.7m in the year exceeding our expectations. Overall, the positive 
group performance delivered a 24.1% increase in net cash flow generated 
from operations and we again covered our debt service obligation, core 
capital expenditure and dividend from internally generated cash. Net debt 
to EBITDA improved to 3.9x.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 14.6% to 69.9p and, as a result of 
this growth	and	our	confidence	in	the	future,	we	have	declared	a	7.7%	
increase in the dividend per share, maintaining our long-term progressive 
dividend policy.
The business achieved another year of robust returns, generating a ten 
basis point increase in ROCE to 9.4%, which remains comfortably ahead 
of our weighted average cost of capital (WACC). 
1.  Throughout this review, operating profit, operating profit margin and EBITDA 
are stated 	on	a	pre-exceptional	basis.
2. Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
Serving food 
at a Hungry Horse. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 14
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief executive’s review	continued
Spirit integration 
On 23 June 2015, we completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, 
adding 791 managed pubs and 416 tenanted and leased pubs to the estate. 
Following a thorough review of Spirit, we commenced the exciting task of 
integrating these two leading pub businesses using a ‘best of both’ companies 
approach. At the end of the first half of the year, our two tenanted and 
leased businesses were integrated ahead of schedule. We also drove strong 
acceptance of the Greene King beer brands within Spirit’s managed pubs 
and we announced a decision to retain both the Spirit and Greene King 
head offices. During the second half, the Greene King beer portfolio gained 
further traction within Spirit pubs, we commenced the roll out of the 
‘best of both’ pub IT system and the majority of the people transition 
was completed.
The scale of change in the combined business since the acquisition is significant. 
While maintaining trading momentum, we have driven fundamental 
improvements to how the business is structured and run. Keeping Spirit’s 
Burton office as the headquarters for our managed pub business and 
putting together a senior management team with the requisite retailing 
experience and skills has given us a platform to create an exceptional 
retailing business that can generate sustainable competitive advantage. 
Following a strong start, momentum with the realisation of cost synergies 
continued in the second half with good progress on procurement, where 
we saw a number of supplier negotiations concluded sooner than anticipated. 
As a result, £16.7m of cost synergies were achieved in the year compared 
with our original expectation of around £12m. We continue to anticipate 
annual cost synergies in the region of £35m by the end of 2017/18, of 
which 80% will be realised by the end of this financial year. Non-recurring 
costs of achieving these synergies are still expected to total £25m. Our 
intention remains to invest cost synergies in excess of our stated target 
to strengthen	key	areas 	within	Pub	Company	such	as	our	people,	our	
systems and our brands.
“ The acquisition of Spirit 
in June 2015 was followed 
by significant progress 
integrating the best 
of both businesses.”
The new Pub 
Company support 
centre in Burton, 
Spirit’s former 
headquarters. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
Brand optimisation 
We acquired a strong portfolio of brands and formats with Spirit – one 
that would have been very difficult to replicate organically – and we continue 
to anticipate material benefits from optimising the combined brand portfolio, 
which will provide an exciting growth opportunity over the next few years. 
The combined business has 20 brands and formats and our plan is to reduce 
this to around ten. We are evolving the future brand portfolio and plan 
to focus	on	five	growth	retail	brands	and	formats:	Hungry	Horse,	Flaming	
Grill, Farmhouse Inns, Chef & Brewer and Greene King. We will also 
continue to develop our hotels and Metropolitan, our premium London 
pub format. 
In order to select the growth brands and formats to invest in, we looked 
at the consumer relevance and financial performance of each brand, the 
long-term opportunities to grow and expand and the proximity to other 
pubs within the combined group. 
There is potential profit upside from investment in over 300 of our existing 
pubs to reposition them into the growth brands over the next three years. 
Our priority in 2016/17 is to convert around 100 Fayre & Square pubs into 
the growth brands, of which the majority will be rebranded as Hungry Horse. 
We also plan to simplify our Local Pubs estate. We will reduce the number 
of formats and we will replace any existing retail branding with Greene King 
branding, considerably increasing the size of the Greene King branded 
estate and creating a significant pub retail brand in the UK eating and 
drinking out market. 
In the current year, we expect to spend around £40–50m on these conversions 
and anticipate generating EBITDA returns significantly above our cost of 
capital. We expect a £1m dilutive profit impact in the first year, including 
the impact of additional opening costs.
Best for our communities
Our pubs are at the heart of the community and have a unique opportunity 
to play an active role in the communities they serve. We understand the 
importance of operating a sustainable and responsible business and, as an 
industry leader, it is our duty to set an example by delivering a winning 
social responsibility programme.
During the year, we were proud to deliver the following initiatives:
 – in March we announced that our teams and customers raised £2m 
for our	charity	partner,	Macmillan 	Cancer	Support,	doubling	our	initial	
target. To mark the milestone, we were pleased to renew our partnership 
with Macmillan Cancer Support for a further three years;
 – a partnership with The Prince’s Trust to launch ten programmes across the 
country giving unemployed young people an opportunity to step into work;
 – for the third year running, we donated to the Pub is the Hub 
Community Services Fund in order to help to support rural pubs that 
want to diversify their services for the benefit of their communities; and
 – further reduction in water consumption with Spirit named as the 
Water Efficient Project of the Year at the 2015 Energy Awards.
Outlook 
Trading in the first eight weeks of the year has strengthened, helped by the 
European Football Championships and better weather in May, with Pub 
Company LFL sales up 2.8%. We are pleased with the initial performance of 
the brand optimisation programme and the exciting opportunity this presents 
to deliver long-term growth, and today we have outlined five strategic priorities 
to	deliver	our	vision	of	being	the	best	pub	company	in Britain.
The increasing uncertainty surrounding the UK’s future withdrawal from 
the European Union is likely to have a negative impact on the economy 
and on consumer confidence in the near term. However, with our track 
record of success in previous challenging conditions, our strong balance 
sheet and the limited direct impact on our business from Brexit, we remain 
confident that our strategy will drive further growth in earnings, returns 
and dividends and we look forward to delivering further financial and 
strategic progress in the current financial year.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
28 June 2016
Dining at a 
Chef & Brewer pub. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our business model
DELIVERING VALUE 
TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS
—
The Greene King vision is to be the 
best company	in Britain:	the	best	for	
our customers,	the	best	for	our teams,	
the best for our shareholders and 
the best for our	communities.	
Our integrated business model is 
predicated on balancing strong cash 
generation	with	investment	to further	
position the business towards long-term 
growth markets and, as a result, deliver 
value	to	all of our	key	stakeholders.
Our business consists of three divisions: 
Pub Company	(previously	Retail),	
Pub Partners	and Brewing	&	Brands.
Underpinning our business model is a financial strategy 
to maximise	the	strength,	flexibility	and	efficiency	of	our	
balance sheet, with the aim of supporting growth through 
investment	in our	existing	estate	and	selectively	acquiring	
new	sites,	while maintaining 	our	progressive	dividend policy.
Pub Company: Our Pub Company consists of both more food-focused 
destination pubs and restaurants and more community-focused local pubs. 
The principal revenue streams are food and drink available for consumption 
on our premises. We gain further revenue from our accommodation offer 
on some sites, and a number of our sites have gaming machines. The success 
of our Pub Company is driven by our customers’ desire to eat and drink outside 
of their homes and is specifically determined by the number of customers we 
attract and the amount that they spend with us. Pub Company (1,841 pubs) 
is the key growth driver for the group and in this division we typically own 
and	operate	the	pubs.	This	division	is	a	key focus	area	for	growth	and	we	
will continue to invest the cash generated from the group in our people and 
our	pubs	to	ensure	that	Pub Company	continues	to	gain	share	of	the	UK	
eating	and	drinking	out market.
Pub Partners: Pub Partners is responsible for operating our tenanted, 
leased and franchised pubs and aims to ensure that each pub has the right 
licensee to operate it, on the right agreement with the right offer. Revenue 
in our Pub Partners business of 1,215 pubs is principally achieved through the 
supply of beer and other drinks to our licensees and the rent that they pay 
us for the pub and our support. We also derive a small portion of revenue 
from gaming machines. Although we invest in this business – to ensure that 
we can	offer	prospective	lessees	the	best	pubs	–	the	cash	generated	
is principally	reinvested	into	Pub	Company.
Brewing & Brands: Our Brewing & Brands division operates two 
breweries, one in Bury St Edmunds and the other in Dunbar, that brew 
our core portfolio of ales, which are complemented by an innovative range 
of craft ales. We generate revenue in this division from the sale and distribution 
of ales produced by us in our own breweries, and from the sale and distribution 
of drinks (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic) produced by third parties. As 
well as to our internal customers in the other divisions, we also sell our ales 
to	other	pub	companies	and	to	individual	free	trade	customers.	A further	
important revenue stream is the sale of our own-brewed ales to supermarkets 
and other retail outlets and, increasingly, in the export market.
An integrated business model
In addition to driving growth in Pub Company through enhanced investment, 
further benefits of our integrated business model include the flexibility to transfer 
pubs between Pub Company and Pub Partners and ensure that we match 
each pub with the best operating model. Both Pub Company and Pub Partners 
are customers	of	Brewing	&	Brands	increasing the	distribution	of our	ales.
Acquisition of Spirit
The acquisition of Spirit has added additional scale in both Pub Company 
and Pub Partners, which, in addition to increasing our brand presence and 
recognition, creates opportunities to realise cost synergies in areas such as 
procurement and distribution. We have outlined a ‘best of both’ companies 
approach 	to	the	integration.	For	example,	we	have	based	our	Pub Company	
division at the Spirit office in Burton-upon-Trent, while continuing to locate 
the Pub Partners division, Brewing & Brands and the company headquarters 
in Bury St Edmunds. This arrangement means that Pub Company is more 
centrally located, reflecting our national scale and reach in this division, while 
protecting the heritage and legacy of Greene King by retaining a significant 
presence in Suffolk. We will also optimise the combined brand portfolio, 
reducing the number of brands and formats from 20 to around ten, 
including five growth brands, and focusing our investment.
Pub Partners
Brewing & Brands
Pub Company Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 17
STRATEGIC REPORT
Hungry Horse awarded Best Value 
Pub Restaurant Menu
1
Best Managed Pub Operator
2
Improved value, service 
and	quality;	record NPS
Top 50 Apprenticeship Employer
4
Best Work Experience 
Provider 2015
5
Will employ a further 
10,000 apprentices over 
three years
Raised £2m 
for Macmillan 	–	
double our	initial target
Water Efficient 
Project of the	Year
3
Prince’s Trust partnership
ROCE 9.4% +10bps
Operating cash flow +24.1%
Full year dividend +7.7%
Customers
Communities
Shareholders
Teams
BEST FOR OUR...
—
1.  Menu Innovation and 
Development Awards.
2. 2016 Publican Awards. 3. 2015 Energy Awards. 4. The Daily Telegraph. 5 .  S p r i n g b o a r d A w a r d s 
for Excellence.
Delivering value 
to all	stakeholders GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 18
STRATEGIC REPORT
Overview
Our core markets are the UK eating out and UK drinking out markets. 
We also compete in the UK ale market with our brewing of cask and 
premium ales, and have a foothold in the UK staying out market.
Over the last 12 months our core markets have continued to be supported 
by	the	macroeconomic	environment.	Alongside	the	rest	of the	sector,	we	
continue	to	navigate 	a	number	of changes	in	the	regulatory	environment,	
in	particular 	the	introduction	of the	National 	Living	Wage	and	the	statutory	
Pubs Code. 
The long-term fundamentals behind our core markets remain strong and 
we are cautiously optimistic about the future. We have seen the UK eating 
out market grow and expect it to continue to do so. We also believe it will 
become increasingly dynamic with intense competition for every pound in 
the consumer’s pocket. The UK drinking out market will continue to show 
resilience and hold its share of leisure spend.
Positive sector LFL growth continued, although it was 
a little more subdued in the second half of the year
UK MARKET LFL GROWTH (% ROLLING MAT)
Jun 2012 Jun 2013 Jun 2014 Jun 2015 Apr 2016
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
2.5%
0.0%
Source: Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
While recent sector like-for-like (LFL) sales growth has been a little more 
subdued, within Pub Company, our largest and fastest growing business, 
we successfully outperformed the market in the 12 months to April 2016, 
growing	our	LFL	sales	by	1.5%,	including	by	1.9%	in the	original	Greene	King	
managed estate. 
Economic environment
The macroeconomic environment continued to provide a strong backdrop to 
our core markets with consumers experiencing increases in average weekly 
earnings	(supported	by	a	tightening	labour	market).	As	a	result	of	a low	
inflationary environment, the climb in consumer confidence throughout 2015 
and an increasing appetite for households to spend rather than save, we saw 
UK	real	household	spending	grow	by	c.	2.8%	in 2015.
1
However, the picture was mixed across the year and, in the second half, 
as the	UK	referendum	on	the	European	Union	approached, 	consumer	
confidence dipped and the economic environment showed some signs 
of softening	with	consumers	more	reluctant	to	spend	discretionary	
income in the face of such uncertainty. 
We remain cautiously optimistic about the future UK economic outlook 
and expect consumer discretionary spend to continue to grow, albeit 
at a slower 	rate	as	the	growth	in	average 	weekly	earnings	slows	(as	the	
country approaches full employment) and inflation picks up. 
Although the referendum is now behind us, the process by which Britain 
extracts itself from Europe is uncertain. We are mindful of the potential 
impact of this uncertainty on the consumer and expect consumer confidence 
to remain more subdued until this is clearer.
We are also mindful of the longer-term impact on household incomes 
from government plans to reduce welfare spending, which are likely 
to have	a	disproportionate	impact	on	those	with	lower	incomes.
Households have been increasingly 
choosing to spend rather than save
UK HOUSEHOLD SAVING RATIO (%)
Consumer confidence was strong throughout  
2015, but dipped in early 2016
UK CONSUMER CONFIDENCE COMPOSITE INDEX
Political environment
Regulatory forces have played, and will continue to play, a key role 
in shaping	our	markets	and	our	business.
In July 2015, it was announced that the UK government would introduce 
a compulsory	minimum	wage	premium	for	all	staff	over	25	years	of	age,	
known as the National Living Wage. Our people are core to our business 
and we constantly strive to pay them appropriately for their hard work 
while maintaining a high level of investment in development and training. 
We remain confident of being able to mitigate most of the impact from 
the ongoing increases in the National Living Wage. 
Throughout the year, the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 
has taken steps towards implementation, with the publication of a draft 
statutory Pubs Code in April 2016. Now that the revised Code has been 
announced, and assuming there are no further changes, we can start to 
plan for its introduction at the end of July 2016. We believe that the 
overall financial 	impact	on	the	group	will	be	immaterial.
We welcomed the Chancellor’s decision to freeze excise duty in March 
2016. We maintain our support for an alcohol minimum unit price (MUP). 
We believe MUP, alongside other measures such as improved alcohol 
education, can be a highly effective measure in reducing irresponsible 
retailing and consuming of alcohol, therefore helping to reduce the costs 
to society of rising alcohol related illness and crime. 
We await more detail around the proposed Apprenticeship Levy and will 
again look to work with government to ensure that this legislation supports 
rather than hinders investment in people development and training.
1. Source: Thomson Datastream, Capital Economics.
Sep 2012 May 2013 May 2014 May 2015 May 2016
-30
-20
-10
0
10
-40
Q1 2010 Q1 2011 Q1 2012 Q1 2013 Q1 2014 Q1 2015
4%
2%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
0%
Our markets
Source: GfK.
Source: Capital Economics. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 19
STRATEGIC REPORT
UK eating out
We offer a variety of eating out options and experiences across both 
our destination	and	local	community	pubs,	with	eating	out	representing	
c. 40%	of	leisure	spend	in	2015.	
We compete in a broad UK eating out market made up of around 330,000 
outlets and annual total spend of c. £85bn
1
. Within this market, the pubs 
and bars segment consists of around 50,000 outlets and total spend 
of c. £22bn	–	c.	25%	of	overall	eating	out	spend.
The market is increasingly dynamic. An environment of increasing consumer 
choice extends beyond the traditional pub and restaurant sector and includes 
the supermarkets, who have successfully made eating at home more attractive, 
and the takeaway aggregators who facilitate the option of combining the ease 
of eating out with the comforts of home. Understanding this, and ensuring 
our offer	is	compelling	enough	to	compete	successfully	with	this	broader	
competitive set, is increasingly important for delivering long-term growth.
The overall UK eating out market is expected to grow at an average 
annual rate of c. 3–4% over the next three years
1
, supported by rising real 
incomes, supply growth in the market and increases in the proportion 
of adults	eating	out	of	home	and	the	frequency	with	which	they	do	so,	
driven	in	particular 	by	younger adults.
Hectic lifestyles and the increasing desire to seek experiences mean that 
consumers are increasingly attracted to both informal dining with great 
value food and drink across all day parts as well as more premium 
offerings. Segments of the market such as fast food and ‘retail grab and go’ 
will therefore be among the fastest growing parts of the market. We will 
continue to develop our offer to meet these needs, and are making 
progress in improving our coffee offer and targeting breakfast and snack 
sales as well as the more traditional out-of-home dining occasions.
The pubs and bars segment is forecast to hold its share of this market 
at c. 25%.	Managed 	and	branded	pubs	will	be	the	key	drivers	of	the	
evolution of the pub sector as consumers are drawn to brands that 
stand out	and	have	defined,	consistent	propositions	that	signal	reassuring	
brand familiarity, excitement and the opportunity to try something new. 
In contrast,	overall	spend	in	the	tenanted	and	leased	sector	will	continue	
to decline primarily as a result of falling supply. We see an opportunity 
here to buck the inherent market decline by strengthening the quality 
of our	estate	to	win	share	from	less	well	invested	competitors.
UK drinking out
Through our pubs and our portfolio of award-winning ales we offer choice 
for all types of drinkers and occasions. Drink is a key driver of overall spend 
in the pubs sector with 40% of all meals involving an alcoholic drink and 52% 
of consumers saying that alcohol is an important choice driver for where to 
eat.
2
 A strong drinks range is therefore a crucial factor in achieving overall 
customer satisfaction and we aim to capture share of spend by providing a 
drinks range that offers value, quality and an experience to our guests.
After a notable decline in alcohol consumption between 2007 and 2012, 
consumption has levelled off more recently.
3
 We have seen drinking out spend 
retain its share of leisure spend at c. 22%.
4
 We expect to see continued 
resilience in drinking out spend in value terms, which will be supported by the 
broader increase in discretionary and leisure spend. We also expect the price 
differential between the on and off trades to become less relevant as consumers 
are	drawn	to	the	‘experience’	of drinking	out	of	their	homes.
Other markets
UK ale market
We are the UK’s leading cask ale brewer and premium ale brewer. The overall 
UK ale market was flat in the 12 months to April 2016. This improving picture 
has been driven by a slowing in the decline of standard ale in keg and can 
formats and continued growth of premium ale through cask and bottle formats.
During this period, we were successful in extending our share of the UK 
ale market by 40bps to 10.5%, which we have achieved through building 
consumer loyalty to our core ale brands, which have all grown in the year, 
and through developing our innovative range of seasonal and ‘craft’ beers 
to appeal to a new generation of beer drinkers. 
We expect the UK ale market to continue to evolve and improve and to 
see low single-digit growth in the total market. We remain confident in 
our ability to continue to grow share with our enviable portfolio of brands 
that can meet the needs of consumers across all drinking occasions.
UK staying out market
We compete in the UK provincial staying out market and offer great value 
and convenience to guests on both business and leisure visits, with our estate 
at the year end consisting of 3,399 bedrooms. We see the combination of a 
pub restaurant and adjacent rooms to be an attractive guest proposition 
in the context of increasing business and leisure travel, and therefore one 
which offers plenty of opportunity for pubs to take share from the more 
traditional branded hotel chains. The staying out market enjoyed a strong 
year in 2015, benefiting from the economic recovery and a buoyant travel 
market. RevPAR (revenue per available room) in the market continued to grow 
in the provinces, and RevPAR across our combined Pub Company estate 
grew by 4.5% across the financial year. RevPAR in the provincial staying 
out market is expected to grow by c. 3–4% over the next two years 
(i.e. continued	growth,	albeit	at	a	slower	rate)	driven	by	moderate	
increases in occupancy and hoteliers’ average daily rate.
5
1. M&C Allegra (2015).
2. CGA Peach.
3.  ‘% of UK population who drank in the last week (aged 16 and over)’ 
(source: adult drinking	habits	in	Great	Britain,	2014	ONS,	released	March	2016).
4. GK Leisure Tracker.
5. PwC (2016).
The pubs and bars segment is c. 25%  
of the total UK eating out market
UK EATING OUT MARKET STRUCTURE 2015 (£BN)
We have seen more recent signs of the  
decline in alcohol consumption levelling off
UK ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION – % IN LAST WEEK 2005–2014
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
58%
60%
62%
64%
66%
56%
 Pubs and bars
 Restaurants
 Fast food
 Hotels
  Coffee and 
sandwich retailers
 Retail grab and go
 Other
  I n de pe n de n t
 Tenanted and leased
 Managed and branded
2015 
UK Eating out
85 9 7 8 11 20 7 22
Source: ONS. Source: M&C Allegra (2015).
22 6 10 6
2015 
UK Pubs and bars GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 20
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our strategy
Best for our customers, best for our teams, best for our shareholders 
and best for our communities
Delivering attractive shareholder returns, earnings and dividend growth
TO BE THE BEST PUB 
COMPANY IN BRITAIN
—
Our vision is to be the best pub company in Britain; the best for our customers, our teams, our communities 
and our shareholders. By being the best, we believe we will generate superior underlying growth and returns 
for our stakeholders. Pubs have to contend with a wider set of competitors, including coffee shops, takeaway 
aggregators and grab and go stores and a faster pace of consumer change than ever before. This means we 
will look to redefine what our pubs offer their customers, ensuring they have a broader and more lasting 
appeal. In order to deliver our vision, we have identified five strategic priorities for the medium term:
1
 BUILD 
ATTRACTIVE AND 
STRONG BRANDS
2
 IND U S T R Y - L E A D IN G 
VALUE, SERVICE 
AND QUALITY
3
 WORK WITH THE 
BEST PEOPLE
4
 O WN T H E 
BEST INVESTED 
PUB ESTATE 
IN BRITAIN
5
MAINTAIN A 
STRONG BALANCE 
SHEET AND 
FLEXIBLE CAPITAL 
STRUCTURE Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 21
STRATEGIC REPORT
1 
  BU I LD A T T R A C T I V E 
AND STRONG BRANDS
We must ensure our brands stand out and remain relevant 
to today’s	increasingly	demanding	consumer	in	order	to	drive	
long-term growth. We are optimising our brands and formats 
and using the scale this brings to increase investment in our 
brand propositions to drive greater brand awareness and loyalty. 
We will look to broaden the appeal of our pubs, both in terms 
of the customers who use them and their reasons for visiting. 
For our	Local	Pubs	estate,	Pub	Partners	and	Brewing	&	Brands,	
the Greene King brand is key to superior performance and we 
will extend our brand marketing leadership by investing more in 
communicating the brand’s benefits. A strong digital presence is 
vital in building successful brands and we will create the digital 
industry leader through combining the best of Greene King and 
Spirit’s digital expertise to drive customer engagement, engender 
higher levels of customer brand loyalty and improve the return 
on our marketing investment.
4 
  OWN THE BEST INVESTED 
PUB ESTATE
We want to own and run the best pubs in Britain, which we will 
achieve through proactive management of our pub portfolio and 
continued industry-leading investment in our estate. We will further 
grow the share of our profits from managed pubs, where we 
can determine the customer experience, while valuing the role 
that Pub Partners plays in generating cash, adding scale and 
promoting the Greene King brand. The best pubs have the best 
beers and we will continue to brew our own industry-leading 
beer brands. We believe the strong relationship between our 
pubs and our breweries is a clear competitive advantage. 
We now operate 1,823 pubs, restaurants and hotels in our 
managed estate. We will selectively build and acquire new pubs 
and transfer exceptional tenanted and leased pubs to Pub Company 
when the opportunity arises. We will also selectively reduce the 
size of our current managed estate by selling pubs that dilute returns 
or have an unattractive long-term outlook. In Pub Partners, we 
now operate 1,212 pubs and we will reduce the size of the estate 
through disposals from the tail and through transfers to Pub Company. 
Our	medium-term	target	for	our	Pub	Partners	estate is	around	
1,000 pubs.
Our preference remains to own the freehold title of our assets 
and, where it makes financial sense, we will selectively acquire 
pub freeholds where we currently operate the pub on a lease.
5 
  MAINTAIN A STRONG 
BALANCE SHEET AND 
FLEXIBLE CAPITAL 
STRUCTURE
Underpinning our company strategy is a financial strategy 
to maximise	the	strength	and	flexibility	of	our	balance 	sheet.	
Through a relentless focus on cash generated from operations, 
we will continue to cover our debt service obligation, our core 
capital expenditure and our dividend through internally generated 
cash flow. After the year end, we successfully completed the 
issuance of an additional £300m of bonds in the Greene King 
secured financing vehicle, realising net proceeds of £180m after 
settling certain interest rate swap liabilities. This additional financing 
provides longer-term funding for general business operations 
including increasing our optionality to invest in the business. 
2 
  I ND U S T R Y - L E A D I N G V A L UE , 
SERVICE AND QUALITY
We remain committed to exceeding customer expectations and 
we will achieve this by constantly improving the value offer to our 
customers, the service delivery of our teams and the quality of 
our food and drink offer. We will use our scale to deliver leading 
value propositions through the successful execution of known 
value item (KVI) and everyday low pricing (EDLP) strategies to 
drive a sustainable mix of volume and spend per head growth. 
We will increase investment in our people to ensure we lead 
the industry	on	service	and	successfully	compete	with	the	wider	
competitive set. Lastly, we will evolve and improve the quality 
of the	food,	drink	and	accommodation 	we	offer	our	customers,	
regularly benchmarking against the best in class. 
3 
  WORK WITH THE 
BEST PEOPLE
Being the first choice for people who want to work in the 
hospitality sector is important to us and we want to offer every 
existing team member the opportunity to grow and develop. 
Our refreshed career pathway ‘Craft your career’ provides 
individuals with structured development opportunities while 
further initiatives include our focus on apprenticeships across 
the business,	which	has	led	to	a	commitment	to	employ	a	
further 10,000 apprentices over the next three years.
We also want to recruit, retain and develop the best operators 
in our Pub Partners business and this means extending our focus 
on training and development to both existing and future licensees.
Overall, investing more in the recruitment, retention and 
development of our people will lead to a better trained and 
more motivated team across our business, which will be reflected 
in ongoing improvements in team retention and customer service.  GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 22
STRATEGIC REPORT
Key performance indicators
To	maintain 	focus	on	our	five	strategic	priorities,	we	have	a	set	of	overall	financial 	and	non-financial 	KPIs,	
which are	also	used	to	help	to	align	remuneration	to	performance.
KPI PROGRESS IN FY16
Pub Company like-for-like sales (%)
The sales this year compared to those in the previous year for all 
Pub Company	sites	that	were	trading	throughout	the	two	periods	
being compared,	expressed	as	a	percentage.
In Pub Company, on a combined basis, LFL sales grew by 1.5%, ahead of the 
market, which grew by 1.3% over a broadly comparable period
1
. LFL sales 
growth in the original Greene King estate of 1.9% (2015: 0.4%
2
).
EBITDA per pub: Pub Company
EBITDA (operating profit before depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptionals) 	divided	by	the	average 	number	of	trading	pubs	
in the period.
In FY16, EBITDA per pub in Pub Company was impacted by synergies and 
fair value 	adjustments	offset	by	the	higher	proportion	of	leasehold	properties	
in Spirit – as a result EBITDA per pub fell by -3.6%. However, in the original 
Greene King managed estate average EBITDA per pub grew by 2.3% 
(2015: -0.2%
2
), which excludes synergy contribution. 
Pub Partners LFL net income
Net income is EBITDA in our leased, tenanted and free-of-tie pubs, 
stated before property costs and administrative expenses – the change 
in	net	income	is	on	a	same	estate	basis	(i.e. adjusting	for	disposals).
The tenanted and leased businesses were successfully integrated at the end 
of the	first	half	and	the	combined	Pub	Partners	business	grew	net	income	
by 2.7%	in	the	year	(2015:	+3.5%
2
).
EBITDA per pub: Pub Partners
EBITDA (operating profit before depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptionals) 	divided	by	the	average 	number	of	trading	pubs	
in the period.
Average EBITDA per pub increased by 14.3% (2015: +15.5%
1
) reflecting 
the contribution	of	the	Spirit	sites,	ongoing	improvements	in	the	quality	
of the	estate	(such	as	the	disposal	of	48	pubs	from	the	combined	estate)	
and synergy	contribution.
Brewing & Brands OBV growth (%)
Year-on-year growth in the sold volume of our own-brewed ales. Brewing & Brands achieved 2.9% OBV growth (2015: +4.2%
2
), and helped 
us to	extend	our	share	of	the	UK	ale	market	by	40bps	to	10.5%.	
Return on investment (%)
The incremental EBITDA delivered as a result of our developments, 
divided by the value of the capital investment.
Annualised return on development capex improved to 27.8% (2015: 22%
2
).
Return on capital employed (ROCE) (%)
Pre-exceptional operating profit divided by the average capital employed 
throughout the year. Capital employed is defined as total net assets 
excluding deferred tax balances, derivatives, post-employment liabilities 
and net debt.
The business achieved another year of robust returns, generating a ten basis 
point increase in ROCE to 9.4% (2015: 9.3%) which remains comfortably 
ahead of our cost of capital.
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders, excluding the effect 
of exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period excluding own shares held.
Earnings per share before exceptional items was 69.9p (2015: 61.0p), 
up by 14.6%.
Pub Company net promoter score (NPS) (%)
The percentage of responses where we score 9 or 10 (out of 10) less the 
percentage of responses where we score 0 to 6 (out of 10) to the statement 
‘I am likely to recommend this pub to a friend and/or relative’.
Record customer satisfaction scores; NPS +7.9%pts (2015: +12.3%pts).
Team turnover (%)
The percentage of leavers against the average headcount over a rolling 
annual period, excluding any student leavers.
We saw an improved trend in team turnover. The improvements indicate 
the success	of	our	teams	in	continuing	with	business	as	usual	during	the	
integration process. 
Team engagement (%)
The proportion of respondents who agreed with the following statement: 
‘I would recommend Greene King as a great place to work to others’.
Team engagement currently stands at 73% across the combined group. 
Investing more in the recruitment, retention and development of our people 
will lead to a better trained and more motivated team working across our 
business, which will be reflected in ongoing improvements in team engagement, 
team retention and the service we give to guests.
1. Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
2.  Greene King: excludes synergies arising in the Greene King business. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 23
Operational review
PUB COMPANY
At the year end our Pub Company division comprised 
1,823 pubs and	restaurants 	open	across	Britain,	appealing 	
to	a	broad	range of	the	population.
OUR GROWTH BRANDS REVENUE
£1,688.2m
SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE
81.4%
The Boathouse in Peterborough has 
been converted to a Chef & Brewer 
during the year. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
Operational review	continued
 
LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES
+1.5%
 
OPERATING PROFIT
1
+56.8%
NPS IN THE 
GREENE KING ESTATE
+7.9%pts
INCREASE IN ONLINE 
TABLE BOOKINGS
41%
Our Pub Company strategy is to attract customers with exciting brands 
that deliver unrivalled value, service and quality. The acquisition of Spirit 
Pub Company has helped us accelerate this strategy through the addition 
of successful brands and the opportunity to learn from each other and 
enhance the customer offer. It also allows us to generate greater scale 
to drive	cost	efficiencies	that	can	be	reinvested	in	the	business.	
In the former Greene King estate, total sales grew by 5.1%, while total 
sales increased 68.7% to £1,688.2m when including Spirit. 
Full year LFL sales growth in the Greene King and Spirit managed estates 
was 1.9% and 1.0% respectively. On a combined basis, LFL sales grew by 
1.5%, ahead of the market, which grew by 1.3%
2
 over a broadly comparable 
period. We achieved LFL sales growth in food, drink and accommodation 
and, by brand, we saw notable strength in Chef & Brewer. 
1. Before exceptionals.
2. Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
On a combined basis, operating profit increased 56.8% to £299.2m. The 
combined operating margin declined 1.4%pts reflecting higher lease costs 
following the Spirit acquisition and a 0.3%pt reduction in the margin in the 
Greene King managed estate due to ongoing investment in our people and 
our service proposition. 
1. Build attractive and strong brands
We constantly improve our brands and the offer within them to ensure 
they remain fresh and appealing to today’s demanding consumer. For 
example, to extend the appeal of Hungry Horse while retaining the 
brand’s family focus, we are trialling improved zoning, allowing more 
families to dine in a comfortable environment, while other customers 
enjoy the option to watch sport. 
On digital, we have combined the ‘best of both’ from the Greene King and 
Spirit businesses and our ambition is to create seamless hospitality across 
the whole customer experience. Aiming to facilitate the customer journey, 
we developed our online booking capabilities, which contributed to a 41% 
increase in online bookings. Feedback from our customers on how we are 
doing is important to us and during the year we relaunched our ‘Hungry 
For Feedback’ initiative in Hungry Horse while, recognising the increasingly 
important role of social media, we further rolled out the ‘Always On Service’ 
initiative encouraging pub teams to engage with customers on Facebook 
at a 	pub	level.	We	continued	to	personalise	the	content	of	our	email	
communications with customers and saw an 18% increase in visits to 
our pub	websites.	
Our food festivals turn classic pub food and drink into interesting events, 
giving customers more reasons to visit and offering them the opportunity 
to trade up, which can drive spend per head. Further initiatives to expand the 
appeal of the traditional pub included the relaunch of our value-oriented 
breakfast offer in Farmhouse Inns, extended breakfast service hours in 
Hungry Horse and the introduction of a ‘Grab ‘n’ Go’ price point for a 
coffee and a pastry in Local Pubs. Including the Spirit estate, the proportion 
of sales	generated	before	5.00pm	increased	by	7.6%,	including	by	8.6%	
in the five	retail	growth	brands.	
2. Industry-leading value, service and quality
During the year, we expanded the number of KVIs across the Greene King 
estate, driving repeat visits among core customers and positively impacting 
volumes and gross margins. We introduced an ‘EDLP’ approach into the 
Spirit estate and, aiming to enhance the customer experience, particularly 
ahead of the Euros, upgraded our sports viewing facilities in Flaming Grill 
and in Local Pubs. Elsewhere, we were proud to see Hungry Horse win 
best value pub restaurant menu at the Menu Innovation and Development 
Awards. On service, initiatives focusing on great service at all customer touch 
points led to further increases in NPS since the half year and a 7.9%pt 
increase in the full year in the original Greene King estate to a new company 
record since measurement began in 2011. Quality improvements included 
a refreshed ‘Steak Education’ programme in Flaming Grill, and, in the 
Greene King estate, further improvements in core dishes contributed 
to a 2.3%pt	increase	in	quality	scores	compared	to	last	year.	
“ The acquisition of Spirit 
added successful brands 
and the opportunity 
to enhance the 
customer offer.”
PUB COMPANY CONTINUED
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 25
STRATEGIC REPORT
3. Work with the best people
Our teams are vital to our success and we are pleased with the trend in team 
member retention since the acquisition of Spirit, demonstrating the resilience 
and commitment of our pub teams throughout the integration progress 
to date.	During	the	year,	we	began	developing	updated	employee	value	
propositions by brand, which outline recruitment, retention and development 
opportunities in each as well as the overall employee experience. This 
initiative has delivered positive results to date including the highest team 
member retention in Hungry Horse since measurement began. 
On apprenticeships, we had over 3,000 apprentices in learning during the 
year and we were delighted to be recognised for our commitment to 
apprenticeships through the award of Macro Employer of the Year by 
Apprenticeships 4 England. We were also named as one of the top 50 
apprenticeship employers in the UK by the Daily Telegraph. 
4. Own the best invested pub estate 
We continued to invest in our estate to ensure that our pubs remain 
enticing places for our customers to spend their time. During the year, 
we spent	£139.0m	on	maintaining 	and	developing	the	combined	estate,	
including £51.8m on the Spirit managed estate and, reflecting a rigorous 
approach to investment allocation, we achieved annualised EBITDA 
returns in excess of 27%. Taking advantage of opportunities to selectively 
and strategically expand our Pub Company estate, we opened 13 new 
pubs in the year. We disposed of 26 pubs from the combined managed 
business including ten disposals that were required by the Competition 
and Markets Authority (CMA).
Overall, we were pleased to be recognised with the award of Best Managed 
Operator at the prestigious Publican Awards.
“ We had over 3,000 
apprentices in learning 
during the year.”
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING
Greene King 1,062 +1.9%
Combined 1,740 +67.0% 
OPERATING PROFIT
Greene King
1
 £197.2m +3.4%
Combined
2
 £299.2m +56.8% 
EBITDA
Greene King
1
 £249.9m +4.2%
Combined
2
 £386.0m +61.0% 
AVERAGE EBITDA PER PUB
Greene King
1
 £235.3k +2.3%
Combined
2
 £221.8k -3.6% 
REVENUE
Greene King
1
 £1,051.6m +5.1%
Combined
2
 £1,688.2m +68.7% 
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
Greene King
1
 18.8% -0.3% pts
Combined
2
 17.7% -1.4% pts
1,800
200
600
1,000
1,400
2016
2016
2016
2016
2016
2016
1,062
1,740
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
1,007
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
1,042
1. Excludes synergies in the existing Greene King business.
2.  Includes Spirit acquisition fair value accounting adjustments, synergies and a 45-week 
contribution from Spirit.
1,800
200
600
1,000
1,400
1,688.2
963.0
1,000.7
400
200
250
300
350
249.9
386.0
236.5
239.8
300
100
150
200
250
197.2
299.2
187.7
190.8
20
16
17
18
19
18.8
17.7
19.5
19.1
240
200
210
220
230
235.3
221.8
234.9
230.1
1,051.6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 26
STRATEGIC REPORT
Operational review	continued
REVENUE
£187.9m
SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE
9.1%
PUB PARTNERS
Pub Partners is responsible for operating our tenanted, leased and 
franchised pubs across Britain and aims to be the preferred partner 
for the	best	operators	in	the	industry.
 – Standard tenancy agreement
 – Scholarship tenancy agreement
 – Standard lease agreement
 – Meet & Eat franchise agreement
 – Local Hero franchise-style agreement
 – Turnover agreement
OUR AGREEMENTS
We have expanded our range 
of partner suppliers to include 
premium brands such as Italian 
cuisine-focused Barrel & Stone. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 27
STRATEGIC REPORT
In Pub Partners, our strategy is to be the preferred partner for the best 
operators in the industry. We will achieve this through the offer of the 
best retail partnerships, in flexible formats and in the best pubs. During 
the year, we made further significant progress with this, accelerated by the 
acquisition of Spirit, including its high quality tenanted and leased estate 
and talented operations team.
The integration of Pub Partners and Spirit Leased was successfully 
achieved ahead of schedule at the end of the first half.
Pub Partners traded well throughout the year and the combined estate 
delivered LFL net income growth of 2.7%. Average EBITDA per pub 
increased by 14.3%, reflecting the contribution of the Spirit pubs, ongoing 
improvements in the quality of the estate and synergy contribution.
The addition of 416 tenanted and leased pubs from Spirit led to growth in 
revenue and operating profit in the year of 54.1% and 58.0% respectively. 
Excluding Spirit, revenue declined 2.1% due to disposals, although the operating 
margin improved by 1.3%pts reflecting good cost control and higher estate 
quality. The combined Pub Partners operating margin increased by 1.1%pts 
and was positively impacted by the performance in the original Greene King 
estate, offset by the increased proportion of leaseholds following the Spirit 
acquisition. Average revenue per pub grew 13.8% in the combined estate. 
Central to the successful execution of our strategy is the ability to offer 
licensees the best pubs in their location. During the year, we spent £21.1m 
on maintaining and developing our Pub Partners estate. We also continued 
to optimise the combined estate through the disposal of a further 48 
pubs. These disposals included six that were required by the CMA. 
Aiming to attract and retain the best licensees, we increased our focus on 
food to further support licensees to build sustainable, quality businesses 
and expanded our range of partner suppliers to include premium brands 
such as Italian cuisine-focused Barrel & Stone. We also continued to develop 
our range of attractive and innovative agreements. During the year, Local 
Hero, our franchise-style agreement built around local provenance, saw 
the opening of its 50th site while, together with Spirit, we refreshed our 
suite of turnover agreements. 
Digital is a means through which we can further engage with current and 
prospective licensees and in the year we launched a new and improved 
online application process and expanded our use of social media. Overall, 
our number of Twitter followers increased by 75% and traffic to the 
Pub Partners website increased twelvefold. 
Our teams are important in ensuring we are preferred partners and can 
attract the best operators. Training initiatives included a ‘Bury St Edmunds 
heritage experience’ for our Spirit teams and a continued focus on 
apprenticeships where we now have 154 qualified apprentices 
compared with 85 this time last year. 
These initiatives have contributed to a consistently low proportion of bad 
debts in the estate and a stable average licensee tenure at around five years.
REVENUE PER PUB
+13.8%
EBITDA PER PUB
+14.3%
50
th
LOCAL HERO 
FRANCHISE‑STYLE 
SITE OPENED
1,300
500
700
900
1,100
829
1,193
1,213
881
1. Excludes synergies in the existing Greene King business.
2. Includes Spirit acquisition fair value accounting adjustments, synergies and a 45-week contribution from Spirit.
200
100
125
150
175
119.4
187.9
149.6
121.9
105
45
60
75
90
62.0
95.3
74.9
61.6
90
30
45
60
75
54.4
85.3
65.3
54.0
46
42
43
44
45
45.6
45.4
43.6
44.3
85
45
55
65
75
74.8
79.9
61.7
69.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING
Greene King 829 -5.9%
Combined 1,193 +35.4% 
OPERATING PROFIT
Greene King
1
 £54.4m +0.7%
Combined
2
 £85.3m +58.0% 
EBITDA
Greene King
1
 £62.0m +0.6%
Combined
2
 £95.3m +54.7% 
AVERAGE EBITDA PER PUB
Greene King
1
 £74.8k +7.0%
Combined
2
 £79.9k +14.3% 
REVENUE
Greene King
1
 £119.4m -2.1%
Combined
2
 £187.9m +54.1% 
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
Greene King
1
 45.6% +1.3%pts
Combined
2
 45.4% +1.1%pts
2016
2016
2016
2016
2016
2016
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 28
STRATEGIC REPORT
BREWING & BRANDS
Brewing & Brands sells and distributes a wide range of award-winning 
craft ales 	to	both	the	on	and	the	off-trade.	They	are	brewed	in	one	
of our two	breweries	in Bury	St	Edmunds	and	Dunbar.
OUR CORE BRANDS REVENUE
£196.9m
SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE
9.5%
Operational review	continued
The new Greene King IPA branding 
was extended to bottle formats 
during the year. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 29
STRATEGIC REPORT
In Brewing & Brands, our strategy is to drive growth and cash generation 
through building consumer loyalty to our core ale brands and our innovative 
range of seasonal and ‘craft’ ales. This strategy has led us to being the UK’s 
leading cask ale brewer.
Significant progress was achieved in the year and, including additional volumes 
to Spirit pubs, OBV grew by 2.9%, increasing our share of the UK ale 
market by 40bps to 10.5%
2
.
Revenue grew 2.2% to a record £196.9m, while operating profit grew by 9.7% 
to £32.7m leading to a 1.1%pt increase in the margin. The margin increase was 
predominantly driven by new sales to Spirit managed pubs, which are included 
in the Pub Company revenues along with those to the rest of the Greene King 
estate, but there was also a benefit from a positive channel mix and additional 
cost	efficiencies	realised	in	the	second	half	of the	previous	financial 	year.	
During the year, initiatives to further build consumer loyalty and engagement 
included the Greene King IPA ‘To The Pub’ campaign, which reached an 
audience of over 20 million and resulted in 60% of ale drinkers surveyed 
saying that the adverts encouraged them to buy Greene King IPA on their 
next visit to the pub. Other initiatives were a £1.2m investment in a 
multi-channel media campaign in the Hen brand family and increased use 
of social media to promote the Abbot Ale brand, with industry-leading 
engagement levels to date
3
. 
Our three core ale brand families – Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen 
and Belhaven – saw further volume growth in the year and our ale portfolio 
benefited from a number of exciting new partnerships, including Greene King IPA’s 
sponsorship of the England and Wales Cricket Board. Greene King IPA was 
positively impacted by a brand refresh in the on-trade and growing popularity 
REVENUE
£196.9m +2.2%
200
160
170
180
190
EBITDA
£37.8m +8.3%
38
30
32
34
36
OPERATING PROFIT
£32.7m +9.7%
34
26
28
30
32
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
16.6% +1.1%pts
17
13
14
15
16
2016 2015 2014
“ Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen 
and Belhaven all saw volume 
growth in the year.”
in the export market led by China. Overall, volumes of Greene King IPA grew 
by 8.0%, increasing its share of the UK cask ale market by 0.4%pts. The ‘Hen’ 
brand family had another successful year, particularly in take-home where 
penetration increased by 3%
4
 on last year and, overall, Old Speckled Hen 
remains the number one premium ale brand in Great Britain.
5
New product development remains a core part of our strategy and 
helps us	to	remain	relevant	to	core	consumer	drinking	occasions.	Volumes	
of East	Coast	IPA	continued	to	grow	throughout	the	year,	we	launched	
‘Old Spirited	Hen’	and	we	also	released	limited	edition	ales	such	as	Purple	
Reign, launched in celebration of Her Majesty’s 90th birthday.
Elsewhere, we were proud to see Belhaven awarded ‘Distributor of the Year’ 
in Scotland	at	the	prestigious	DRAM	awards 	and	a	number	of	our	ales,	including	
Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale and Belhaven Best, won gold at this year’s Monde 
Awards. The launch of our new beer café at our Bury St Edmunds brewery has 
added to the brewery tour experience, which itself received a Certificate of 
Excellence on TripAdvisor for the fourth consecutive year.
Following the acquisition of Spirit, we have been encouraged by the response 
of	the	Spirit	pub	managers 	and	their	desire	to	sell	Greene	King	beers	and are 	
delighted that Greene King IPA is on sale in over 90% of Spirit managed pubs.
1. Before exceptionals.
2. BBPA May 2015-May 2016.
3. Google analytics.
4. Kantar Worldpanel 52 w/e 24 April 2016.
5.  CGA Brand Index On-Trade Survey, 52 weeks to 03/16/Nielsen Scantrack volume 
data 52 weeks to 04/16.
16.6
16.1
 
OPERATING PROFIT
1
+9.7%
 
OWN BREWED VOLUME
+2.9%
 
ALE MARKET SHARE
+40bps to 10.5%
GREENE KING 
IPA VOLUMES
+8.0%
2016
196.9
2015
192.7
2014
189.0
2014 2016
37.8
2015
34.9
36.1
2014 2016 2015
32.7
29.8
30.4
15.5 STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial review
STRONG RETURNS AND 
FURTHER DIVIDEND GROWTH
GROUP REVENUE INCREASED:
57.6%
FREE CASH FLOW:
£50.2m
ROCE:
9.4%
DIVIDEND:
32.05p
“ Operating cash flows 
remained strong.”
Income statement 
Revenue was £2,073.0m, an increase of 57.6% compared to the prior year. 
Excluding a £705.1m contribution from Spirit, revenue increased 4.0% to 
£1,367.9m. Pub Company was the biggest driver of this increase, with revenue 
up 68.7% and average revenue per pub rising 1.0%. The combined Pub 
Company business now accounts for over 81% of group revenue. Total 
revenue in Pub Partners was £187.9m. This included the Greene King 
tenanted and leased estate where revenue of £119.4m was down 2.1%, 
due to the impact of pub disposals. Average tenanted and leased revenue per 
pub increased 13.8% and average EBITDA per pub grew 14.3%, demonstrating 
improvements in the quality of the estate and also benefiting from the 
inclusion of synergies and fair value accounting. Brewing & Brands grew 
revenue 2.2% to £196.9m. 
Operating profit before exceptionals was £392.2m, which was an increase 
of 53.1% on the prior year. Group operating profit margin before exceptional 
items was down 60bps to 18.9%, reflecting a higher contribution from the 
managed estate and, within this, a reduction in Pub Company margin from 
19.1% to 17.7%. The reduction of the Pub Company margin was in line 
with expectations and reflected ongoing investment in labour and training 
along with the impact of the higher proportion of leasehold pubs in the 
Spirit estate compared to the Greene King estate. 
Net interest costs before exceptional items were £135.7m and included 
£49.0m of interest relating to Spirit. 
Profit before tax and exceptionals was £256.5m, an increase of 52.2% on 
last year. The tax charge before exceptional items equated to an effective 
tax rate of 19.3%.
Earnings per share before exceptional items of 69.9p was up 14.6%. 
Statutory profit before tax was £189.8m, up 60.6% on last year.
Cash flow and capital structure
Operating cash flows remained strong. We generated free cash flow (FCF) 
of £50.2m, ahead of our scheduled debt repayments of £43.3m and after 
our core capital expenditure and dividend payments. Overall, EBITDA 
before exceptional items was £496.9m. 
Group net debt at the year end was £2,048.4m, an increase of £679.7m 
from the previous year end due to acquiring net debt of £674.5m with 
the Spirit	business.	
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 31
STRATEGIC REPORT
In line with our strategic priorities, our objective is to maximise the 
strength and flexibility of our balance sheet, and the group has a capital 
structure aimed at meeting the short, medium and longer-term funding 
requirements of the business. The principal elements of the group’s capital 
structure are a shorter dated £460m revolving credit facility to June 2018 
that was £315m drawn at the year end and two long-term asset-backed 
financing vehicles. The Greene King securitisation has secured bonds with 
a carrying value of £1,140.9m and an average life of 11 years, while the 
Spirit debenture has secured bonds with a carrying value of £788.7m 
and an 	average 	life	of	12	years.
Our credit metrics remain strong with 96.1% of our interest costs at a 
fixed rate and an average cost of debt of 6.6%. As a consequence of the 
Spirit acquisition, fixed charge cover reduced to 2.3x from 2.9x last year, 
while interest cover increased to 3.3x from 3.0x last year. On a pro-forma 
basis, annualised net debt to EBITDA improved to 3.9x. Our Greene King 
secured vehicle had a free cash flow debt service cover ratio of 1.5x at the 
year end, giving 26% headroom. The Spirit debenture vehicle had a free 
cash flow debt service cover ratio of 1.9x giving headroom of 33%.
After the year end, the group issued a £300m A6 bond at a coupon of 
4.06%, realising net proceeds of £180m after settling certain interest rate 
swap liabilities. Capitalising on our high proportion of freehold assets, this 
transaction increased the proportion of longer-term debt in our capital 
structure and took the outstanding nominal value of bonds issued by 
Greene King Finance plc at that point to £1,447.7m. The Greene King 
bond portfolio is secured against 1,543 pubs with a market value 
of £2.2bn	and	a	carrying	value	of	£1.6bn.	
Capital expenditure and disposals
During the year, we invested in both maintaining and developing our 
existing estate. Total expenditure during the year was £168.4m, made up 
of £110.3m in Greene King and £58.1m in Spirit.
In addition to the acquisition of Spirit, we added 13 new pubs, investing 
£46.7m in our retail expansion. Total cash capital expenditure was 
£194.1m, including £137.5m of core capital expenditure. Core capital 
expenditure included £45.9m on the Spirit estate.
We disposed of 48 pubs from the combined Pub Partners estate, including 
six required by the CMA. We also disposed of 26 Pub Company pubs, including 
ten required by the CMA. Total cash proceeds were £82.6m and a net 
profit on disposal of £23.3m has been recognised. 
Return on capital employed
The group is focused on delivering the best possible returns on our assets 
and on the investments we make. We are focused on capital discipline, 
coupling targeted investment in new build pubs, single-site acquisitions and 
in developing our existing estate to drive organic growth with disposals 
of non-core	pubs.	This	has	contributed	to	a	10bp	improvement	in	group	
ROCE to 9.4%. These returns were achieved despite a 10bp dilutive impact 
from	Spirit.	ROCE	remains	comfortably	ahead 	of the group’s	cost	of	capital. 	
Dividend
The	board	has	recommended	a	final	dividend	of	23.6p	per	share,	up 8.3%.	
This will be paid on 12 September 2016 to shareholders on the register 
at the	close	of	business	on	12	August	2016.
The proposed final dividend brings the total dividend for the year to 
32.05p per share, up 7.7%. This maintains our long-term track record 
of annual 	dividend	growth	and	is	in	line	with	the	board’s	policy	of	maintaining 	
a minimum dividend cover of around two times underlying earnings, 
while continuing	to	invest	for	future	growth.
Tax
The effective rate of corporation tax (before exceptional items) was 19.3% 
compared to 21.0% in the previous year, resulting in a charge to operating 
profits (before exceptional items) of £49.4m. This is slightly below the standard 
UK corporation tax rate due to adjustments in respect of prior periods. 
The exceptional tax credit of £50.5m is discussed under exceptional items.
The group’s business strategy generates revenue, profits and employment, 
all of which deliver substantial tax revenues for the UK government in the 
form of duties, VAT, income and corporation tax. In the year, total tax revenues 
paid and collected by the group were £570m (2015: £405m). The group’s 
tax policy, which has been approved by the board, aligns with this strategy 
and ensures that the group fulfils its obligations as a responsible UK taxpayer. 
Since the year end, a formal agreement has been reached with HMRC on 
a number of historical tax positions. We expect to draw the remaining issue 
to a close and this will be heard by the Court of Appeal in July. The provision 
for uncertain tax positions and related interest accrued at the balance sheet 
date were £10.5m (2015: £31.6m) and £5.9m (2015: £13.9m) respectively. 
Pensions
Following the Spirit acquisition, the group now maintains three defined 
contribution schemes, which are open to all new employees and three defined 
benefit schemes, which are closed to new entrants and to future accrual.
At 1 May 2016, there was an IAS 19 pension deficit of £52.3m representing 
a reduction of £6.9m since the previous year end. The £52.3m comprised 
£48.6m in respect of Greene King schemes and £3.7m in respect of the 
Spirit scheme. 
The deficit reduction resulting from the effect of contributions paid to 
the schemes	and	the	reduction	in	scheme	liabilities	following	changes	to	
demographic assumptions are partially offset by the impact of changes to 
the market-derived actuarial assumptions and a reduction in the market 
value of the schemes’ assets since the previous year end. 
Total cash contributions in the year were £12.5m for past service. 
The triennial funding valuation and recovery plans have now been agreed for the 
three defined benefit pension schemes and future deficit recovery contributions 
are expected to be £3.3m per annum, a reduction of £8.6m per annum. 
Exceptional items
We recorded a net exceptional charge of £16.2m, consisting of a £25.9m 
charge to operating profit before tax, a £40.8m charge to finance costs 
and a net exceptional tax credit of £50.5m. The following items were 
recognised in the year:
 – A £17.5m charge for legal, professional, integration and reorganisation 
costs following the Spirit acquisition.
 – A net impairment charge of £32.2m (2015: £27.4m) was made against 
the carrying value of our pubs and other assets. This comprises an 
impairment charge of £79.8m offset by reversals of previously 
recognised impairment losses of £47.6m. 
 – A net surplus on disposal of property plant and equipment, which 
includes a number of high alternative use value disposals, of £23.3m.
 – £39.1m of exceptional finance costs in respect of the mark-to-market 
movements in the fair value of interest rate swaps not qualifying for 
hedge accounting within the Spirit debenture.
 – The exceptional tax credit of £50.5m consists of a £11.4m tax credit 
on exceptional	items,	a	deferred	tax	credit	of	£33.6m	in	respect	of	the	
licensed estate, a £0.7m tax credit in respect of prior periods and a £4.8m 
tax credit in respect of rate changes. The deferred tax credit in respect 
of the licensed estate includes a credit of £26.8m in relation to revaluation 
and rolled over gains on the licensed estate following clarification from 
HMRC on the treatment of certain judgmental terms.  GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 32
STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial review	continued
Spirit acquisition 
The group completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc 
on 23 June	2015	for	consideration	of	£763.1m.
A fair value exercise was undertaken upon completion and the final 
assessment in respect of the assets and liabilities acquired has been concluded. 
The goodwill on acquisition following the fair value exercise is £434.0m.
Key fair values include the following:
 – Property, plant and equipment values, for which valuations have been 
performed by external surveyors, of £1,413.4m.
 – A £168.3m intangible operating lease asset.
 – The brands acquired with the Spirit business have been valued at 
£16.1m.
 – A £312.7m liability recognised in respect of lease arrangements that are 
not considered to have market rate terms.
 – Derivative liabilities in respect of interest rate swaps of £165.2m.
 – Deferred tax asset of £68.7m recognised relating to losses, derivatives 
and other temporary differences.
 – Net debt acquired, which totalled £674.5m and included cash of £147.5m.
The impact of fair value adjustments and other accounting alignments on 
the annual results has been to increase operating profit by £7.1m, largely 
as a result of the treatment of the off-market lease liability. The benefit 
to profit	before	tax	and	exceptionals	has	been	£7.4m.	There	has	been	
no impact	on	cash.	
Guidance for financial year 2016/17
The 2016/17 pre-exceptional tax rate is expected to be c.20%. 
In Pub Company, we anticipate opening 10–15 pubs in the current year 
and disposing of 65–75 pubs from the estate. 
In Pub Partners, we expect to reduce the estate by 50–65 pubs in the 
financial year. These disposals, as well as potential transfers to Pub Company, 
will improve the quality of the estate while generating cash for other uses 
across the business.
We anticipate spending £130–140m in the current financial year, excluding 
brand optimisation capex, on maintaining and developing our pubs, in order 
to ensure that they remain attractive places for customers to spend their time.
Spend on the brand optimisation programme is expected to total 
£40m–50m in the current financial year – out of a total spend over three 
years of £120–150m – and we are targeting EBITDA returns significantly 
ahead of our cost of capital.
Our blended cost of debt is expected to be c.6.3%.
Kirk Davis
Chief financial officer
28 June 2016
Income statement analysis
Greene King Spirit
1
F16
£m 
Synergies
£m 
Total
£m 
F16
£m 
Synergies
£m 
Accounting
adjustments 
2
£m 
Total
£m 
Total
group
£m 
Revenue 1,367.9 — 1,367.9 705.1 — — 705.1 2,073.0
EBITDA
3
326.5 5.6 332.1 143.4 11.1 10.3 164.8 496.9 
Operating profit
3
258.3 5.6 263.9 110.1 11.1 7.1 128.3 392.2 
Net finance cost
3
(86.7) — (86.7) (49.3) — 0.3 (49.0) (135.7)
Profit before tax
3
171.6 5.6 177.2 60.8 11.1 7.4 79.3 256.5 
Operating profit analysis
3
Greene King Spirit
1
F16
£m 
Synergies
£m 
Total
£m 
F16
£m 
Synergies
£m 
Accounting
adjustments 
2
£m 
Total
£m 
Total
group
£m 
Pub Company 197.2 3.5 200.7 82.9 10.0 5.6 98.5 299.2 
Pub Partners 54.4 1.1 55.5 27.2 1.1 1.5 29.8 85.3 
Brewing & Brands 31.7 1.0 32.7 —  — — — 32.7 
Corporate (25.0) — (25.0) — — — — (25.0)
Total 258.3 5.6 263.9 110.1 11.1 7.1 128.3 392.2 
1. Post acquisition since 23 June 2015.
2. Accounting alignments and income statement impact of fair value adjustments.
3. Before exceptional items. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 33
STRATEGIC REPORT
Risks and uncertainties
As	with	any	business,	Greene	King	faces	a	range	of	risks and	uncertainties	in	the	course	of	its	business.	
It is	essential	that	we	identify	and	manage 	these	risks	effectively	in	order	to	deliver	on	our	strategic	
objective of being the best pub company in the UK and to maximise shareholder returns.
Approach to risk management
Board
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s risk management 
framework. It reviews the group’s principal risks on an annual basis, together 
with the actions taken to mitigate them. This year there has been a particular 
focus on developing our approach to risk appetite. The board has started 
this by defining group-level risk appetite statements, to set out the board’s 
desired risk-taking approach to the achievement of our strategic objectives, 
in the context of managing our principal risks. Our risk appetite is an expression 
of the types and amount of risk we are willing to take or accept to achieve 
our plan. By defining our risk appetite, we will be able to better determine 
the mitigating activities required to manage to within acceptable levels 
both the likelihood of risks occurring and their potential impact. 
Details of our broad risk appetite in relation to each of our key risks is set 
out in the table on page 34.
Audit committee
The board has delegated to the audit committee responsibility for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the group’s risk management processes. It regularly reviews 
the risk management processes for each business unit and functional area. 
Management
The implementation of risk management and internal control systems is 
the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management, 
with each business unit or functional area responsible for identifying, assessing 
and managing the risks in their respective areas. They are required to maintain, 
review and regularly update a risk register to assist in this process.
Risk management process
Classification of risks follows a standard methodology used in risk management 
and takes into account the likelihood of their occurrence and the scale of 
potential impact (both financial and reputational) on the business. 
Once the key economic, operational, financial, people and strategic 
risks have	been	identified,	each	business	unit	and	functional	area 	is	then	
responsible for evaluating current controls, drawing up plans to improve 
controls and managing new risks. Each key risk has an ‘action owner’ to 
ensure that responsibilities are formally aligned. To ensure continuous 
improvement across the business, progress of these risk implementation 
plans is monitored by senior management on a regular basis. 
In addition, a group-wide risk committee reviews the individual risk registers 
in detail, monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists in the production of 
the group risk register, whereby risk registers are aggregated and considered 
on a top-down basis in the context of delivering our strategy for the group. 
Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, the 
risk management processes are designed to manage risks which may have 
a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
MANAGING RISK
—
BOARD
Overall responsibility for risk management
Sets the group’s risk appetite
GROUP RISK 
COMMITTEE
Reviews individual 
risk registers	and	
mitigation plans
Ensures consistency of risk 
profiling	across	the group
Aggregates risk registers to 
create group risk register
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Delegated responsibility for monitoring risk profile 
and mitigation
Regularly reviews risk management processes 
for each division and 	functional	area
SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT
Responsibility for 
identification of risks, 
implementation of 
mitigating actions and 
maintenance of business 
unit and functional 
risk registers 1  Build attractive and 
strong brands
2  Industry-leading value, 
service and quality
3  Work with the 
best people 
4  Own the best 
invested pub estate 
5  Maintain a strong 
balance sheet and 
flexible capital structure
GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 34
STRATEGIC REPORT
Risks and uncertainties	continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
This section highlights some of the key risks and uncertainties which affect Greene King. The group is of course exposed to risks wider than those listed, 
but these are believed to be likely to have the greatest impact on our business at this moment in time.
For the first time this year we have indicated whether we believe the risk has increased, decreased or remained the same during the year and also how 
each risk relates to our strategic priorities.
STRATEGIC RISKS
CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE
LINK TO
STRATEGY
Integration of Spirit Pub Company and failure to deliver the full anticipated synergies
↓
Reduced revenue, 
profitability	and	lower	
growth rates than our 
strategic objectives. 
Integration steering committee overseeing integration.
Retention	arrangements 	in	place	for	critical-to-retain 	staff.
Communication	plan	designed	to	keep	all	staff	and	other	
stakeholders informed of progress and changes impacting them. 
Synergy targets established and systems are in place to record 
synergies captured.	
Brand swap plans in place and being implemented and monitored.
We have an appetite for 
risks which we understand 
and which are consistent 
with the delivery of our 
strategic objectives.
1 3 4
Failure to develop an appealing customer offer, to identify and respond to fast-changing consumer tastes and to maintain 
and grow market share
↔
Reduced revenue, 
profitability	and	
lower growth	rates	
than our budget.	
Research conducted into consumer trends and plans developed 
to respond to key trends, including the piloting of new variations 
of existing brands.
Use of guest satisfaction tools and net promoter scores to collect 
customer feedback and measure performance of our pubs.
Increased investment in support and training for our employees 
to ensure service standards meet guest expectations and 
continue to improve.
Increased use of social media to enhance communication with 
our guests and other consumers.
With our vision to be the 
best pub company in the 
UK we expect to be able 
to react swiftly and 
appropriately to changing 
consumer trends to ensure 
continuity of earnings 
growth and achievement 
of our strategic objectives.
1 2 3 4 5
ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS
CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE
LINK TO
STRATEGY
Reduced consumer confidence in the UK, particularly in light of the referendum vote to leave the European Union and 
increasing competitor activity
↑
Reduced revenue, 
profitability	and	lower	
growth rates. 
Focus	on	value,	service	and	quality	to	appeal 	to	a	broad range 	
of consumers.	Piloting	of	new	variations 	of	existing brands.
Costs are kept under constant review and mitigation plans 
prepared	and implemented	where	appropriate.
Broad geographic spread of pubs including in London 
and the South	East.
Ongoing agreement innovation, training and support 
for our tenants.
Monitoring	of	competitor	activity	at	strategic	and	tactical levels.
We acknowledge and 
recognise that in the 
normal course of business, 
the group is exposed to risk 
and we are willing to accept 
a level of risk in order to 
achieve our strategic 
priorities and will manage 
the business accordingly.
1 2 4
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 35
STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS
CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE
LINK TO
STRATEGY
Significant cyber security breach
↑
Potential impact on our 
ability to do business, 
impacting revenue 
and profitability.
Reputational damage 
and	financial 	damage 	
from	fines	or	
compensation.
Networks	are	protected	by	firewalls	and	anti-virus	protection	
systems	with back-up	procedures	also	in	place.
Plans in place to further enhance controls in this area including 
ongoing investment.
Constant monitoring of threats to data protection by viruses, 
hacking and breach of access controls, with additional controls 
added during the year.
Data governance committee drives improved behaviours 
and management response.
We have a low appetite 
for	significant	breaches	
within our IT operations.
3 5
Risks associated with the recruitment, retention and development of employees and licensees
↔
Inability to execute 
our business	plans	
and strategy. 	
Potential impact on 
the profitability	of	our	
Pub Partners	business	
where the risks relate 
to licensees.
A branded recruitment plan is in place with a strong pipeline 
of suitable	candidates. 	In	addition,	we	operate	a	range	of	
apprenticeship programmes. 
Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they 
remain competitive and appropriate mechanisms are in place 
for managing 	pay	progression.
Career development programmes are in place to retain key 
employees and leadership training has been introduced for 
all levels	of	management. 	
Our annual employee engagement survey is used to obtain 
direct feedback from employees on a range of issues. 
Exit	interviews	are	conducted	with	all	head	office,	Brewing & Brands	
and	Pub	Company	managers 	to	enable	action	plans to be	
developed to deal with key leaver reasons.
The range of tenancy agreements, training programmes 
and support	available 	is	designed	to	attract 	and	retain	
the best quality	licensees.
The nature of the sector 
in which	we	operate	
is predisposed	to	high	
turnover levels, but we 
have a low tolerance for 
levels which exceed the 
sector average. We expect 
our	staff	to	have	appropriate 	
skills to deliver the functions 
of the business.
3
Reliance on a number of key suppliers and third party distributors and on our own ability to produce, package 
and distribute our own beers
↑
Supply disruption 
could impact	customer	
satisfaction, leading 
to loss	of	revenue.
Key supplier or 
distributor withdrawal or 
long-term failure could 
reduce revenues or lead 
to increased costs.
Inability to brew and 
distribute our own 
beers could lead to 
loss of	revenue.
Back-up plans are maintained in the event of the failure 
by or loss	of a key supplier.
Detailed risk management and mitigation plans exist in our 
internal production and distribution activities, which are tested 
regularly	across	the business.	
Key suppliers are expected to maintain disaster recovery plans, 
which	we review	on	a	regular	basis.
We recognise that we 
carry an inherent risk in 
relation to third party 
suppliers, but we seek to 
minimise this risk through 
management and control.
1 2 1  Build attractive and 
strong brands
2  Industry-leading value, 
service and quality
3  Work with the 
best people 
4  Own the UK’s 
best invested 
pub estate 
5  Maintain a strong 
balance sheet and 
flexible capital structure
GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 36
STRATEGIC REPORT
Risks and uncertainties	continued
REGULATORY RISKS
CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE
LINK TO
STRATEGY
Risk of increased regulation, and failure to respond to recent changes in regulation, in relation to any matter affecting 
our retail business, including National Living Wage, the apprenticeship levy, the anticipated rates revaluation in 2017 
and potential future changes in relation to the sale of alcohol
↑
Legislation such as the 
National Living Wage 
and the apprenticeship 
levy will drive up costs 
as will any increases in 
rates charged on our 
pubs and restaurants. 
Legislation impacting 
consumers could 
potentially reduce 
demand leading to 
reduced revenue.
We have developed a plan which will in part mitigate the cost 
impact of the National Living Wage and the apprenticeship levy 
over the next three years.
Monitoring of legislative developments and active engagement 
with government where necessary.
Diversified	offer	includes	soft	drinks,	coffee,	food	and	
accommodation to reduce our reliance on alcohol-based revenue.
We recognise that, in the 
normal course of business, 
we are exposed to legislative 
risk that we need to 
manage appropriately 
in order	to	meet	our	
strategic objectives.
1 5
Failure to respond to the threats to our Pub Partners business posed by the introduction of the ‘market rent only’ 
(MRO) option and the statutory code
↔
Loss of income and 
profits	in	Pub	Partners	
from reduced beer 
margin and penalties 
for breach	of	the	
statutory code.
Development of agreements that are exempt from the MRO 
option with plans to adopt these where possible.
Site-by-site plans developed to mitigate risks.
Upweighted compliance team in place with training for all 
relevant employees, and enhanced processes and procedures 
to reduce	risks.
We recognise that in the 
normal course of business, 
we are exposed to legislative 
risk that we need to 
manage appropriately 
in order	to	meet	our	
strategic objectives.
4 5
Failure to comply with major health and safety legislation, including in the areas of food safety and fire safety, 
or significant food integrity issues
↑
Serious illness, injury 
or even	loss	of	life	to	
one of our customers, 
employees or tenants, 
or	significant	food	
integrity issues, could 
have	a	significant	impact	
on our reputation, 
leading	to	financial 	
loss too.
Comprehensive range of formally documented policies 
and procedures	in	place,	including	centrally	managed 	system	
of compliance	KPI	tracking	and	internal	and	independent	
audits to	ensure	compliance	with	current	legislation	
and approved 	guidance.
Health and safety policies reviewed by our primary authority partner, 
Reading Borough Council, which has rated our safety management 
systems as very good. 
Safety measures are in place, including a supplier assurance 
programme,	to ensure	that	product	integrity	is	maintained 	
and that 	all	food	and	drink	products	are	fully	traceable.
Compliance programme in place to ensure pubs are safely 
handed	over	to new	tenants.
We have no appetite for 
health and 	safety	breaches	
within our operations.
1 2
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 37
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL RISKS
CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE
LINK TO
STRATEGY
Inability to meet the funding requirements of the enlarged group
↓
Reduced revenue, 
profitability	and	lower	
growth rates than our 
strategic plan. 
The	group's	debt	structures	and	financing	requirements	are	kept	
under regular review.
The group has a £460m bank facility to support activities outside the 
securitisation vehicles, which was entered into in July 2013 and is 
available until July 2018. 
We completed a tap of our Greene King securitisation vehicle 
in May	2016.
We expect the group to 
be able	to	access	suitable	
financial 	facilities	to meet 
the ongoing	requirements 
of the	business	and	
our longer-term	
strategic objectives.
5
Liquidity and covenant risk relating to the group’s securitisation and other financing arrangements
↔
A breaching of any 
financial 	covenants	
applicable to the group 
would impact our ability 
to pay dividends or 
reinvest cash, and 
impact our reputation 
and ongoing 
creditworthiness.
Long-term strategy and yearly business plans are formulated 
to ensure	that	financial 	covenants	can	be	met	and	monitored	
on a	regular	basis.	
Working capital is carefully forecast, regularly reviewed 
by the finance	teams	and	closely	managed.
We expect to be able 
to meet	our	payment	
obligations and covenant 
levels under a range of 
cautious but plausible 
liquidity scenarios.
5
Funding requirements of our defined benefit pension schemes, which are subject to the risk of changes in life expectancy, 
actual and expected price inflation and investment yields
↑
Increased	deficit	being	
recognised on our 
balance sheet, and 
volatility	of	the	deficit	
makes longer-term 
planning	more	difficult.
All the schemes are now closed to future accrual 
to reduce volatility.
There is regular monitoring of the schemes’ investments 
and dialogue 	with the	trustees	on	an	ongoing	basis	
regarding funding requirements.
We expect to maintain 
funding levels for our 
pension schemes at 
manageable levels.
5
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the board has assessed the prospect of the company over a period 
of three years from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The board concluded that a three year period was appropriate as it is 
aligned to the group’s strategic planning process. The latest three year plan 
was approved by the board in February 2016 and covers the three year 
period to the end of the 2018/19 financial year. 
Long-term financing is provided by the group’s securitisation and debenture 
vehicles both of which have a weighted average life of 12 years remaining. 
The group also utilises a £460m revolving credit facility to provide liquidity 
and to manage its seasonal cash flows. The latest three year period goes 
beyond the June 2018 date when this facility matures.
The group’s three year plan is prepared by consolidating each business 
segment’s own plan and overlaying group assumptions in respect of estate 
optimisation and capital structure. Key assumptions underpinning the three 
year plan and the associated cash flow forecasts are the economic outlook, 
revenue growth expectations, impact of expected inflationary cost pressures, 
estate development and disposal opportunities, the successful integration 
of the Spirit business and realisation of synergies, and that credit markets 
remain stable in order to renew the revolving credit facility. A further report 
on viability was presented to the board following the conclusion of the tap 
of the Greene King securitisation vehicle which took place after the year end.
The three year plan considers cash flows and compliance with the financial 
covenants contained within the group’s revolving credit facility and 
structured finance vehicles.
As detailed on pages 33 to 37 the board has conducted a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the company. This includes consideration of strategic risks, 
economic and market risks, operational and people risks, regulatory risks and 
financial risks. The resilience of the group to the impact of these risks has been 
assessed by applying significant but plausible sensitivities to the cash flow 
projections based on past experience. This includes modelling the effect of 
reduced consumer confidence and therefore spending, the failure of our business 
to maintain and develop compelling customer offers, food safety issues, lower 
than anticipated acquisition synergies and the impact of increased regulation 
across the business.
Taking account of the company’s current position, principal risks and the 
sensitivity analysis discussed above, as well as the potential mitigating actions 
that the company can take, and the experience that the company has in 
adapting the business to change, the board has a reasonable expectation 
that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 38
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility
We pride ourselves on offering our customers the very best experience 
when they visit us and we continue to focus on delivering industry-leading 
value, service and quality to our customers. With over 3,000 pubs, restaurants 
and hotels across the country, we want to make sure that everybody’s 
time is well spent when they visit us. 
We are committed to supporting our customers to make healthier lifestyle 
decisions and providing them with safe, affordable and memorable experiences. 
Healthy eating
We continue to review the nutritional profiles of a range of our dishes and 
made some positive changes to enable our customers to make healthier 
eating choices.
We continually review our products and, as part of this, we have made 
improvements to a range of sauces, such as an 80% reduction of sugar 
in our	standard 	French	dressing.	We	are	reviewing	the	children’s	menu	
choices across our brands to improve the nutritional profile of our dishes. 
One of our premium children’s burgers now has a 59% reduction in salt. 
Our Hungry Horse children’s menu also now includes a number of dishes 
that are lower in salt, including chicken curry and rice, penne pasta and 
a salad 	bowl.	This	will	continue	to	be	a key	focus	area 	for	Greene	King.
We continue to provide a range of lower calorie menu options for customers 
who are counting the calories and looking for a lighter option when dining 
out. As a key part of the menu development process, we will review and 
develop our menus and our focus for the future is to continue to expand 
our nutritional expertise along with providing lower calorie and healthier 
options for our customers. 
Allergens
We are working towards the development of our company strategy on 
nutrition. Following our acquisition of Spirit, we have an opportunity to 
review our nutritional policies to ensure we have a clear set of guidelines. 
We are evaluating all of our allergen procedures to ensure that we have 
one process	in	place	across	the	group.	This	will	ensure	we	remain	safe	and	
compliant with legislation as we continue to provide our customers with 
allergen information about the meals we provide. 
OUR CUSTOMERS
—
As a leading pub company in the UK, 
with 3,035 pubs, restaurants and hotels, 
two breweries and 44,000 team members, 
we understand the importance of 
making a positive contribution to the 
communities we serve and operating 
in a	responsible,	sustainable 	way.
During this year, we have been focused 
on integrating Spirit Pub Company, 
taking learnings and applying a ‘best of 
both’ approach to our corporate social 
responsibility (CSR). We are pleased 
to have	made	considerable	progress	
on the	integration	and	we	are	now	
reporting as one business. 
We will continue to develop our 
CSR strategy	around	four	key	areas: 	
our customers, our teams, our 
communities and our environment. 
MAKING A DIFFERENCE 
LOCALLY AND NATIONALLY
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 39
STRATEGIC REPORT
Gluten 
We continue to respond to the growing demand to provide a range of dishes 
for customers wishing to avoid gluten. Our spring/summer menus include a 
number of new non-gluten dishes including a mushroom and goat’s cheese 
risotto and chilli salmon, with kale, sweet potato and toasted seeds.
Awards 
Our hard work and focus on providing our customers with the very best 
value, service and quality has once again been recognised this year:
 – We won Best Managed Operator at the Publican Awards, which 
recognised our food offering, diverse portfolio of brands, commitment 
to investing in our people and our charity work.
 – Wacky Warehouse won UK’s Best Children’s Activity Provider 2016 
at the	Tommy’s	awards.
 – We won Best Premium High Street Pub Menu 2016 at the MIDAS 
(Menu Innovation and Development Awards).
 – We were given a Good Egg Award by Compassion in World Farming 
in recognition	of	our	commitment	to	using	only	free	range	eggs	across	
the business in the next five years.
Food standards 
Providing our customers with consistently high quality food is paramount 
to us and we do this by actively promoting kitchen standard excellence. 
In Pub	Company,	this	is	achieved	through	training,	external	audits,	open	
dialogue with local authorities and operational incentive schemes.
We are proud that out of the 1,618 pubs visited in the year by local 
environmental health officers, 1,521 (94%) received a 4 or 5 star rating. 
Such high scores are a reflection of how hard our managers and team 
members work to maintain the highest standards, along with our continued 
investment in improving the quality of our kitchens. We will continue to work 
hard to ensure all of our pubs are doing everything they can to maintain 
the highest standards of hygiene.
Quality standards for our beers
Once again, the Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds and the 
Belhaven Brewery	in	Dunbar	both	maintained 	an	A	grade	rating	with	the	
new British Retail Consortium version 7 standard, confirming that our beers 
are produced to the very highest of quality and food safety standards. 
The quality and dispense services team in our Brewing & Brands division 
completed over 1,400 trade quality audits, including 850 independent Cask 
Marque	audits	covering	our	entire	Pub	Partners	and	Inns	estates.	As a	
result, we have again improved the quality standards in our cellars and 
dispense equipment, which has led to improved standards and a pass 
rate of	95%.
We have seen many of our beers win awards at the Monde Selection, an 
independent quality award, and we were proud that four of our beers, 
Old Speckled Hen, Abbot Ale, Belhaven Black and Belhaven Wee Heavy, 
received the Gold Award this year. 
Responsible retailing
Tackling under‑ age sales
We train all new Pub Company bar team members on our central online 
training tool, which provides training on the obligations and responsibilities 
of the employee including materials highlighting the impact of alcohol on 
children. The training course must be completed and passed before our 
team members can serve alcohol. 
All of our Pub Company premises operate the ‘Challenge 21’ or ‘Challenge 25’ 
programmes. We also support the principles laid out in the Portman Code 
of Practice on the responsible retailing of alcohol. 
Not only are all general managers and front of house team members trained 
when they join us, but we also ensure this training is ongoing so they 
always understand their role in promoting the responsible consumption of 
alcohol	by our	customers.
Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes
We are proud that a significant number of our Belhaven pubs achieved 
Best Bar None accreditations this year, including 19 golds, ten silvers 
and three bronze	awards.
In England, our pubs belong to Pub Watch and Best Bar None where 
access to these schemes is available. 
Designated driver campaign
We are passionate about encouraging our customers to ‘enjoy responsibly’ 
and during 2015’s festive season, we once again supported Coca Cola’s 
Designated Driver Christmas Campaign. This was the seventh year 
in a row	that	we	rewarded	designated	drivers	with	free	soft	drinks.
Minimum unit pricing for alcohol
We continue to call on the government to introduce minimum unit 
pricing in	the	UK.	Alcohol	should	never	be	cheaper	to	buy	than	water	
and government	policy	must	address	the	sale	of	alcohol	at	‘pocket	money’	
prices. We believe that the minimum unit pricing of alcohol would 
be a meaningful 	step	in	reducing	alcohol-related 	harm.
“ We have an ongoing 
commitment towards 
developing healthier menu 
options for our guests.” GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 40
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility	continued
As a pub company, we have a unique opportunity to play an active role 
in the	communities	we	serve	and	support	good	causes.	
We have been running pubs for over 200 years and are committed to 
continuing to being present and involved with community life for many 
more. That is why our charity programme is so important to us.
Macmillan Cancer Support
In March this year, we announced that our teams and customers had raised 
more than £2m for our national charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support, 
doubling our initial target. To mark this milestone, we were proud to renew 
our partnership with the cancer charity for a further three years. 
Our team members have carried out a wide range of fundraising activities 
including cake sales and taking part in challenges such as the Yorkshire Three 
Peaks and the London Marathon. Our pubs, restaurants and hotels across 
the country have pulled together with national campaigns such as the 
World’s Biggest Coffee Morning as well as supporting many local 
fundraisers within their communities. 
We were proud to be recognised by the All Party Parliamentary Beer Group 
by winning the 2016 PubAid award for our fundraising for Macmillan. 
Prince’s Trust
As a leader in the hospitality industry, we want to support young people 
into work by offering opportunities to learn a skill and a trade and helping 
them start their career journeys. As part of this ambition, this year we 
announced a partnership with The Prince’s Trust.
The ‘Get into Hospitality’ programme will offer 150 of the UK’s most 
disadvantaged 16-25 year olds an opportunity to develop skills in the 
hospitality sector, achieve accredited hospitality qualifications and support 
them into jobs and other positive outcomes in the industry.
Subject to successfully completing the three week programme, we aim 
to offer	jobs	and	a	place	on	our	award-winning 	apprenticeship	scheme	
to as	many	course	participants 	as	possible.
There will be ten programmes offered around the country over the next 
12 months. We have successfully completed our first course in London. 
Other locations include Liverpool, Portsmouth and Glasgow. 
Pub is the Hub
For the third year, we have donated to the Pub is the Hub Community 
Services Fund in order to support rural pubs that want to diversify their 
services for the benefit of their communities. Over the course of the 
three years, the money we have donated to the fund comes to £45,000. 
The Community Services Fund, which has been running since April 2013, 
aims to	offer	funds	to	licensees	who	are	looking	to	broaden	their	services	to	
the wider community but are unable to find suitable funding from other sources. 
With grants available of up to £4,000, applicants have to demonstrate that 
they will be offering a new service or replacing a service that has already 
been lost	to	the	local	community,	such	as	a	local	shop	or	a	library.
Prostate Cancer UK
Over 600 of our pubs across the country raised more than £71,000 
for Prostate	Cancer	UK	during	last	year’s	Rugby	World	Cup.	
Taylor Walker, Flaming Grill and Chef & Brewer pubs partnered with 
Prostate Cancer UK last autumn to help support the charity’s Men United 
movement in reaching men.
As well as individual pub fundraising events, a select few were fully 
transformed into Men United Arms. The pubs were rebranded for a few 
days using Prostate Cancer UK branded signs, bunting, beer mats, drip 
trays and team uniforms. 
Great Ormond Street Hospital
Our Taylor Walker pub brand celebrated completing a ten year charity 
partnership programme with Great Ormond Street Hospital which raised 
£100,000 for the children’s charity. 
ITV Text Santa
Customers and team members at our pubs raised £26,000 in aid of ITV’s 
2015 Text Santa fundraising appeal by holding Christmas quizzes. 
Pubs across the country, including the Hungry Horse and Chef & Brewer 
brands and Greene King Local pubs, took part in the national Text Santa 
Christmas Quiz during December. The much-needed funds contributed 
to the	appeal’s 	record-breaking	£8.5m	total.
Cash raised during the appeal is being split between ITV Text Santa’s chosen 
charities, Macmillan Cancer Support, Make-A-Wish
®
 UK and Save the Children. 
OUR COMMUNITIES
—
“ We are supporting 
150 young people 
through our Prince’s 
Trust partnership .” Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 41
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our people are our greatest asset. We now have 44,000 team members 
and our ambition is to be the best employer for each of them. We 
continue to focus on attracting and retaining the best people but also 
understand the importance of motivating, engaging and developing our 
team members right across the business. 
Employee engagement
Our Employee Engagement Survey is a valuable tool to help us build the 
best pub company in Britain. This survey provides us with a wealth of 
information that we are committed to actioning across the business. 
Developing our talent 
We recognise the talent that all our team members bring to Greene King 
and, by nurturing this talent when they first arrive, we aim to provide an 
environment through development and opportunity that allows them 
to flourish	and	craft	their	own	career.
Apprenticeships 
We pride ourselves on developing and investing in our team members 
and also 	supporting	those	who	are	just	beginning	their	careers.	In	March,	
we pledged to take on a further 10,000 apprentices during the next three 
years. Since the launch of our award-winning apprenticeship scheme in 2011, 
we have helped support over 7,400 apprentices to achieve a qualification 
while working in our pubs. 
The scheme offers bespoke qualifications that cover a range of job roles 
including front of house, kitchen and management roles which are tailored 
to each of the Greene King retail brands. The course, which has been 
commended by the Prime Minister David Cameron at a reception hosted 
at 10 Downing Street, has received numerous awards this year including: 
Apprenticeships 4 England’s Macro Employer of the Year; National 
Apprenticeship Service Regional Winner (East of England); VQ Employer 
of the	Year;	and	was	named	as	a Top	100	Apprenticeship	Employer	
by the National 	Apprenticeship	Service.
Creating jobs
Thanks to the opening of newly-built Hungry Horse and Farmhouse Inns 
pubs, we have been able to create 1,000 new jobs across the country 
in the	last	12	months.
In many areas of the country where we run recruitment drives for our 
new pubs, we hold a two week pre-employment training programme in 
conjunction with local Job Centre Plus teams. The schemes prove to be 
very popular and successful and we are able to welcome successful 
candidates to our team.
Diversity
We take pride in making sure all of our team members are given the same 
opportunities to achieve their full potential. We are committed to our equal 
opportunities policy to ensure that our team members and candidates are 
recruited, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their 
skills and suitability for the work performed. 
We promote an environment in our pubs, restaurants, hotels, 
headquarters, pub company support centre and breweries, that is free 
from discrimination. We work to a policy in which no employee receives 
less favourable treatment on the grounds of their colour, nationality, race, 
religion/belief, ethnic or national origin, sex, marital or civil partnership 
status, gender reassignment (whether proposed, started or completed 
and under or not under medical supervision), disability or past disability, 
part-time or fixed-term status, pregnancy or maternity, parental 
responsibilities, sexual orientation or age (a protected characteristic).
Gender diversity
Male Female Total
Percentage
female
Directors 6 1 7 14
Senior managers 
(excluding directors) 164 51 215 24
All employees 23,051 21,085 44,137 48
Workplace pensions 
We are fully compliant with Workplace Pensions Reform Regulations and 
enrol our employees automatically into a qualifying workplace pension.
Support for our tenants 
We have been successfully providing opportunities for self-employed 
entrepreneurs for over 200 years and, following the acquisition of Spirit, 
our Greene King Pub Partners division has grown to more than 1,200 pubs.
We continue to provide a variety of different agreement options for a 
high quality estate of pubs, ranging from Michelin-starred premium food 
pubs to the village local at the heart of the community. Our pubs are as 
individual as the people who run them and often thrive on offering 
genuine local provenance and community activity.
The level of support that we provide to our tenants and lessees is central 
to us being a preferred partner to the best licensees in the country.
Our support is tailored to meet the individual needs of our licensee partners 
and their staff. This year we have developed industry-leading training courses 
to support our partners in a number of areas, including digital marketing, 
management development and becoming a multiple operator. 
In keeping with our ‘best of both’ approach, we have taken on an innovative 
food supply service which was originally used in Spirit and is now, in its first 
year, supplying food to around 120 pubs.
Our Brewing & Brands dispense team helps our tenants and lessees 
to maintain 	consistently	outstanding	cellar	quality	ensuring	that	our	beer	
brands are always being offered at their best. This is all underpinned 
by our	professionally	qualified	business	development	managers 	(BDMs)	
who are	trained	to	the	highest	levels	in	the	industry	and	who	are	dedicated	
to supporting	all	our	licensee	partners	in	making	the	most	of	their	
business opportunities.
OUR TEAM MEMBERS
—
“ We pledge to recruit 
10,000 apprentices during 
the next three years.” GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 42
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility	continued
Energy
We are compliant with the government’s Energy Saving Opportunity 
Scheme (ESOS), which is a mandatory energy assessment scheme in the 
UK. It looks at actions taken and plans made by businesses to reduce 
energy usage and must be completed every four years.
We audited the energy used by our buildings, pubs and breweries to 
identify cost-effective energy saving measures. Procedures in place include 
but are not exclusive to:
 – The ability to measure electricity usage on a 24/7 basis in all of our 
pubs, allowing us to analyse any long or short-term changes. We have 
similar information for mains gas usage in c. 97% of our pubs.
 – Ongoing engagement across our business to encourage teams to save 
energy provided it does not detract from our customers’ experience.
65% of our pubs’ internal lighting is now via LED bulbs. We also have 
an enhanced 	boiler	replacement	programme	to	move	older	sites	to	
energy-saving condensing technology and linked to heating control 
systems to	reduce	gas	usage.
Waste
We are signatories to Courthauld 2025 – a voluntary ten year agreement 
that brings together organisations across the food system, with a goal 
of making	food	and	drink	production	and	consumption	more	sustainable. 	
As part of this commitment we have partnered with SWR waste management 
to deliver a recycling-led waste management solution to our pub estate. 
The ultimate aim is to achieve zero waste to landfill and propel the business 
to the forefront of the hospitality industry with a ‘best practice’ waste initiative. 
Short-term plans involve all pubs segregating food from dry materials 
and in	the	longer	term	we	plan	to	implement	Spirit’s	award-winning 	
backhaul solution to the entire Greene King estate. 
We will continue to implement the ‘best of both’ philosophy, by following 
Spirit’s lead in its diversion from landfill rate, which is currently 96% for all 
waste collected direct from ex-Spirit pubs. In the last year the ex-Spirit 
pubs have also seen a reduction in general waste of 2%, glass volume of 
23% and overall waste volume of 6%. Across the Greene King estate 
diversion	of	waste	from	landfill	stands	at 57%	with	20,696	tonnes	
of waste being	recycled	in	total.
OUR ENVIRONMENT
—
“ We were winners of the 
Water Efficient Project 
at the Energy Awards 
and the Economic 
Sustainability category 
at the Footprint 
Foodservice Awards.” Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 43
STRATEGIC REPORT
Mandatory greenhouse gas reporting
The table above, which has been produced in compliance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013, shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in 
tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent (CO
2
e) for our scope 1 (direct) and scope 2 
(indirect) CO
2
 emissions. The figures below include those of Spirit from 
the date of acquisition, 23 June 2015, except where stated.
Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from the fuels we use in our 
breweries, pubs, restaurants, hotels and offices such as natural gas and 
liquid petroleum gas. It also includes (although not for Spirit) emissions from 
owned vehicles (including company cars) but excludes logistics where we 
outsource this to third parties. Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions in 
respect	of	our	breweries,	pubs	and	restaurants 	are	also included,	except	
in relation to Spirit. 
We have used the UK government’s greenhouse gas (GHG) Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting for all scope 1 emissions (2014 for 2014/15 
and 2015 for 2015/16). GHG emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning 
units have been determined using the simplified material balance method 
as described in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013. 
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with the generation of 
electricity consumed in our sites. Emissions have been calculated using the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme factor 
(2014 for 2014/15 and 2015 for 2015/16).
Electricity and gas figures in the table below cover the CRC reporting 
period from 1 April to 31 March each year, whilst all other figures cover 
our respective financial years. The intensity ratio refers to revenue in 
our Pub	Company	and	Brewing	&	Brands	businesses	as	the	vast	majority	
of our CO
2
 emissions relate to those businesses.
Water 
In readiness for market deregulation in 2017, we have been working hard 
to take best practice from the acquisition of Spirit and apply a ‘best of 
both’ approach across the estate. Water benchmarking across brands 
continues and we have conducted 149 audits of high-consuming pubs 
to highlight	opportunities	for	greater	efficiency.	
We have again managed to reduce consumption on a like-for-like basis. 
Spirit was named winner of the Water Efficient Project at the Energy 
Awards, and, as a group, we won the Economic Sustainability category 
at the	Footprint	Awards.	Both	awards 	recognised	our	continued	effort	
to drive	water	usage	downwards.
Our focus has been to ensure that our water data is in the best possible 
shape to allow us to target more effectively and take advantage of any 
opportunities that the opening market has to offer from a fiscal or socially 
responsible perspective. 
At our Bury St Edmunds brewery we are continually looking at ways to 
reduce our water usage. Current initiatives include reviewing tank cleaning 
programmes and pipeline flushes to maximise efficiency.
CO
2
 emissions by type
Source of emissions
2015/16
 tonnes
 of CO
2
e
2014/15
tonnes
 of CO
2
e
Direct emissions scope 1 Natural gas 61,940 41,741
Gas oil 1,186 806
Kerosene 188 197
Liquefied petroleum gas 5,525 2,624
Red diesel 78 81
Refrigerants 3,115 3,196
Owned vehicles 7,669 7,486
Total direct emissions scope 1 79,700 56,131
Indirect emissions scope 2 Electricity 167,562 111,240
Gross emissions 247,263 167,371
Revenue in Pub Company and Brewing & Brands (£’000) 1,885,100 1,193,400
Tonnes CO
2
e per £100k revenue 13.117 14.025 APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT
Pages 2 to 44 of the annual report form the strategic report.
By order of the board
Lindsay Keswick
Company secretary
28 June 2016
GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 44
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility	continued
SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
—
Case study: supporting our communities
Angefrancois Kevin Grah, 21, is one of the students from the Prince’s Trust 
pilot scheme, which was held in London in April and May. He successfully 
completed the course and is now one of our team members at Loch Fyne 
Covent Garden, where he received his on-the-job training. He now hopes 
to move onto our apprenticeship scheme.
‘I’d been unemployed for a couple of months after having to leave my job 
as a chef at a local Chinese restaurant. I left school with only one GCSE, 
in Italian. 	So,	I	was	struggling	to	be	offered	job	interviews.	
‘A friend of mine actually told me about the Prince’s Trust and so I decided 
to attend the open day, and I’m glad I did.
‘The course taught me a lot, but my highlight really was the work 
placement at Loch Fyne. I was mostly in the kitchen, learning the role 
of the	chef,	and	it	was	great	to	be	able	to	be	so	involved.	Working	in	
such a	fast-paced 	team	was	brilliant.	I	was	in	my	element	and	everybody	
was so welcoming.
‘I’m so pleased my hard work paid off. I’ve been offered a job at the 
Loch Fyne	in	Covent Garden	and,	around	my	college	classes,	I	work	evenings	
and weekends as a waiter. I would love nothing more than to have a long 
future with Greene King. Maybe, one day, I’ll be running my own pub or 
restaurant and helping to support young people.’
Case study: investing in our people
Despite the many celebrity chefs on our televisions, there is an industry 
shortage of chefs. However, our award-winning apprenticeship scheme 
aims to buck the trend, with 719 out of 2,876 apprentices working in 
our kitchens.	
Gabrielle Green, 18, has been an apprentice chef at the Ship in Bedford 
for nine months. After completing her GCSEs, she decided that she did 
not want to continue with typical further education and left school 
at the age 	of	16.	
Now working towards her Level 2 in Hospitality certificate, Gabrielle said: 
‘I’ve always had an interest in cooking, right from a very young age, so 
being a trainee chef as a Greene King apprentice really was an easy move 
to make. I didn’t want to be stuck in a classroom all the time, and now I 
get the chance to learn while being paid at the same time. 
‘I really enjoy working in such a fast-paced team and developing not only 
my education, but also myself. For instance, I have the chance to cook and 
taste food that I’ve never experienced before, and preparing meals is such 
an important responsibility. I really can see myself growing as a person and 
would recommend to anybody wanting to learn on the job to look into 
becoming an apprentice. It’s not only for young people either – anybody, 
at any 	stage	of	their	lives	–	can	do	it.’
“ Being a trainee chef as 
a Greene King apprentice 
was an easy move to make.”
David Redpath, general manager of Loch Fyne Covent Garden, who was 
a ‘buddy’	during	the	London	programme,	said:	
‘I thought this was a great programme and was honoured that it was piloted 
in our restaurant. ‘Get into Hospitality’ gives young people who haven’t yet 
had the best of chances, the opportunity to showcase themselves and prove 
that they really can get the job done. It’s a fantastic scheme, which really does 
help young people learn and progress, and I’d definitely volunteer to help 
out again.
‘We had two students train at our restaurant, and it felt great to watch 
them ‘graduate’ at the end of the programme and I was proud to offer 
our candidates two full time jobs. They have a lot of work and training 
ahead of them, but I know and trust they can do it.’ CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
46 Board of directors
47 Corporate governance statement
51 Nomination committee report
52 Audit committee report
55 Remuneration report
67 Directors’ report and disclosures
69 Directors’ responsibilities statements
— GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of directors
Philip Yea (61)
Chairman
Commenced role – May 2016 
(Appointed to board in 
February 2016)
Philip Yea became chairman in 
May 2016 after being appointed 
to the board as an independent 
non-executive director in February 
2016. He is senior independent 
director at both Vodafone Group 
plc and Computacenter plc. He is 
also a non-executive director of 
Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies 
Investment Trust plc, and an 
independent director and trustee of 
the Francis Crick Institute. His prior 
executive career included roles as 
finance director of Diageo plc and 
chief executive of 3i Group plc.
Ian Durant (57)
Non-executive director
Commenced role – 2007 
Ian Durant is a former finance 
director at Liberty International plc 
and has extensive financial experience. 
He is also chairman of Capital & 
Counties Properties plc and Greggs plc 
and a non-executive director of 
Home Retail Group plc. Ian stood 
down as senior independent director 
at the end of the financial year.
Rooney Anand (52)
Chief executive
Commenced role – 2005 
(Appointed to board in 2001)
Rooney Anand joined the group 
as managing director of the 
brewing division and was 
promoted to chief executive in 
2005. He was previously president 
and managing director of the UK 
bakery division at Sara Lee, the 
international consumer goods 
business, and, prior to that, 
was at United Biscuits.
Rob Rowley (66)
Senior independent 
non-executive director
Commenced role – 2014
Rob Rowley joined the board in 
July 2014 and has extensive board 
experience gained as a former 
finance director of the Reuters 
Group plc. He is currently a 
non-executive director and 
chairman of the audit committees 
at Taylor Wimpey plc and Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc, having 
retired from the same role at 
Moneysupermarket.com Group plc 
in April 2016. Rob was appointed 
senior independent director 
in May 2015.
Kirk Davis (44)
Chief financial officer
Commenced role – 2014
Kirk Davis joined Greene King 
from JD Wetherspoon plc where 
he had been finance director since 
2011. He has extensive retail 
experience having held senior 
finance roles at Tesco and 
Marks & Spencer and is a member 
of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Lynne Weedall (49)
Non-executive director
Commenced role – 2012 
Lynne Weedall is currently group 
HR director for Selfridges Group 
and brings to the board a wealth of 
experience of HR and organisational 
development gained from a variety 
of roles in the retail sector, including 
at Dixons Carphone, Whitbread 
and Tesco.
Mike Coupe (55)
Non-executive director
Commenced role – 2011 
Mike Coupe is the chief executive 
of J Sainsbury plc and also brings 
knowledge and experience from 
working for other large, multi-site 
retail organisations, including Asda 
and Tesco, before that.
N N
N N N
A
A A R
R
R R
Senior management
The senior management team 
comprises Rooney Anand, chief 
executive, Kirk Davis, chief financial 
officer, the managing directors of 
each of the group’s business units 
and the heads of key functional 
areas, including retail, trading and 
marketing, HR and property. 
They meet once every four weeks 
under the chairmanship of the 
chief executive. 
Nomination committee
Audit committee
Remuneration committee
N
A
R
Key to committees Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to introduce this report, which is my first 
since becoming chairman at the beginning of the current financial 
year. My predecessor, Tim Bridge, took his responsibility for ensuring 
that we met high standards of corporate governance very seriously, 
and I will continue to do so throughout my tenure.
During the year the company again applied the main principles 
and relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code), and I hope this report gives you a good understanding 
of the systems of governance and control which continue to operate. 
As you might expect, the board was very busy during the 2015/16 
financial year dealing with the integration of Spirit Pub Company, 
the acquisition of which completed in June 2015. I am pleased to have 
joined Greene King at such an exciting time in our development. I am 
looking forward to working closely with Rooney and the rest of the 
board in the next stage of our progress as a leading pub hospitality 
company, whilst at the same time continuing to ensure that we have a 
well balanced and effective board, strong oversight of risk management, 
alignment of remuneration policies with shareholder interests and 
sound shareholder relationships. 
In accordance with the Code, we conducted a board evaluation exercise 
during the year. Having joined the board in February, and to facilitate 
my understanding of the board and its ways of working, it was agreed 
that I should undertake that evaluation by means of individual discussions 
with each board member, with a view to looking forward and focusing 
on how to improve board effectiveness, rather than looking back 
at past practice.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow directors for their support 
since my appointment. Together, I believe we can continue to 
maintain a strong and effective governance system to enable the 
business to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and 
safeguard our shareholders’ long-term interests. 
Philip Yea
Chairman 
Corporate governance statement
Statement of compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code
The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is 
available at www.frc.org.uk. The code sets out guidance in the form 
of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed 
and controlled to follow good governance practice. Companies listed 
in the UK are required to disclose how they have applied the main 
principles and whether they have complied with its provisions 
throughout the financial year. Where the provisions have not been 
complied with companies must provide an explanation. 
The board considers that the company has complied with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 throughout 
the year in all respects, save that, with the impending retirement 
of Tim Bridge at the end of the financial year, no evaluation was 
undertaken of his performance as chairman as is required by 
Code provision A4.2. 
Board independence – current directors
Name Independent
Nomination
 committee
Audit
 committee
Remuneration
 committee
Philip Yea Yes N
Rooney Anand No
Mike Coupe Yes N A R
Kirk Davis No
Ian Durant Yes N A R
Rob Rowley Yes N A R
Lynne Weedall Yes N R
“ I believe we can 
continue to maintain 
a strong and effective 
governance system.”
Philip Yea, Chairman GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The board
Board composition
As at the year end the board comprised the chairman, two executive 
directors and five non-executive directors. The non-executive chairman 
was Tim Bridge, who retired at the end of the year. The new chairman 
is now Philip Yea. The chief executive is Rooney Anand and the senior 
independent director during the year was Rob Rowley. 
The board believes that the structure and size of the board is appropriate 
and that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process. 
The board is currently looking to recruit a further non-executive director, 
to replace Ian Durant, who will be retiring from the board at the AGM in 
September. Further details are set out in the nomination committee report.
The directors’ biographies are on page 46. 
Independence of non-executive directors
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half 
of the board, excluding the chairman, are non-executive directors. The board 
is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were independent throughout 
the year, in that they satisfied the independence criteria of the code on 
their appointment and continue to satisfy those criteria. 
Tim Bridge, the chairman during the last financial year, was not independent 
on appointment, having previously served as chief executive. However, the 
board was satisfied that he showed independent judgment, that his performance 
as chairman was effective and that he demonstrated continued 
commitment to the role. 
Philip Yea, the new chairman, is independent on appointment, having 
never been employed by the company and having diverse business 
interests beyond the company.
Rob Rowley was the senior independent non-executive director during 
the year. He too has never been employed by the company and has diverse 
business interests. As well as supporting the chairman and acting as a 
sounding board for the chairman and an intermediary for other directors, 
a key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available 
for direct contact from shareholders should they require. During the year 
Rob Rowley played an active role in the recruitment of Philip Yea as the 
new chairman, as explained in the nomination committee report.
Leadership
Role of the board
The board has collective responsibility for the long-term success of the 
company and for its leadership, strategy, control and management. 
The offices of chairman and chief executive are separate and distinct and 
the division of responsibilities between them has been clearly established, 
set out in writing and agreed by the board. 
The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the 
board and for ensuring that each non-executive director is able to make 
an effective contribution to the board through debate and discussion with 
the executive directors. He is also responsible for setting the style and 
tone of board discussions.
The chief executive’s role is to develop the company’s strategic direction 
and to lead senior management in executing the company’s strategy 
and managing the operational requirements of the business. 
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that 
the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined 
and fully discussed, that the performance of the company is monitored and 
challenged and that the financial information provided is comprehensive 
and accurate. They are also responsible for ensuring, through the relevant 
committee, that appropriate remuneration arrangements are in place 
for the executive directors.
Operation of the board
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its 
consideration, including approval of the long term objectives and strategy, 
approval of budgets and financial statements including the annual report 
and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the 
group and overall corporate governance issues. It reviews trading performance 
and considers major capital expenditure. 
The board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing committees, 
details of which are set out on page 49. By delegating key responsibilities to 
these committees, the board is able to ensure that adequate time is devoted 
by board members to the oversight of key areas within their responsibility.
Day to day management and control of the business is delegated to the 
executive directors, business unit managing directors and certain key functional 
heads, who meet formally on a four-weekly basis together with other 
senior managers as appropriate. 
Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, with main 
meetings linked to key events in the company’s financial calendar, with the 
annual results and dividend being approved in June or July and the interim 
results and dividend in November or December. Regular agenda items 
include an overview of the market and current trading as well as a detailed 
review of financial performance against agreed targets. 
There is a two-day meeting of the board in February each year focusing 
on strategy, with the business unit managing directors and heads of the 
main functional areas, namely trading, marketing, HR and property, 
attending for part thereof. The strategy sessions include an in-depth 
review of relevant economic factors and issues affecting the sector and 
management’s projections for the medium term. The board then has the 
opportunity to agree the strategic plans across all areas for the short and 
medium term. Following approval of the company’s strategy, budgets are 
prepared for the next financial year, which are reviewed and approved 
by the board in April. The board also has a programme to review each 
business unit and main functional area in detail on a regular basis, with 
particular focus on the achievement of strategic objectives. The relevant 
managing director or functional head attends such meetings to present 
and answer questions.
The board has responsibility for determining, with the assistance of the 
audit committee, whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair 
balanced and understandable to enable shareholders to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. In coming to its view, the board 
took into account the views of the audit committee, which assisted in the 
process this year, as well as its own knowledge of the group, its strategy 
and performance in the year, the guidance given to all contributors to 
the annual report and a detailed review by senior management of the 
overall content.
A key focus area for the board during the year included the integration 
of the Spirit business following completion of the acquisition of Spirit Pub 
Company in June 2015, to ensure that planned synergies are being effectively 
captured and that the business is being appropriately managed during the 
integration period. Regular reports on progress have been presented to 
the board with plenty of opportunity for the board to raise any concerns. 
Looking forward this focus will continue whilst the programme of brand 
swaps is carried out and the remaining synergies continue to be captured.
Another key focus area for the board has been financing, to ensure that 
the group had available sufficient funds to deliver its capital expenditure 
programme and for general business purposes. The board approved the 
£300m tap of the Greene King securitisation vehicle which completed 
shortly after the year end realising net proceeds of £180m after settling 
certain interest rate swap liabilities. 
The board has also spent some time considering matters relating to risk, 
including the issue of risk appetite and a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the group. Further details, including the new viability statement, 
are set out in the risk management section which starts on page 33. 
Corporate governance statement continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to 
progress the company’s business and if necessary, board meetings can be 
held at short notice. Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the 
board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to 
be dealt with between scheduled board meetings. It is expected that all 
directors attend board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are 
prevented from doing so by prior commitments. If directors are unable to 
attend meetings in person or by telephone they are given the opportunity 
to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting. 
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out 
in the adjacent table.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to each board or 
committee meeting to ensure that directors have sufficient time to review 
them before the meeting. Documentation includes detailed management 
accounts, reports on current trading, reports from each business unit and 
main functional areas and full papers on matters where the board is 
required to give its approval. 
The chairman holds regular, informal meetings with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present and the non-executives 
also meet with the chairman and the chief executive on an informal basis 
twice each year.
COMMITTEES
MEMBERS
Nomination committee report
page 51
Audit committee report
page 52
Remuneration report
page 55
Board
Nomination
committee
Audit
committee
Remuneration
committee
Executive directors
Rooney Anand 8/8 — — —
Kirk Davis 8/8 — — —
Non-executive directors
Tim Bridge 8/8 3/3 — —
Mike Coupe
1
8/8 3/3 2/3 3/3
Ian Durant 8/8 3/3 3/3 3/3
Rob Rowley 8/8 3/3 3/3 3/3
Lynne Weedall
2
7/8 3/3 — 3/3
Philip Yea
3
3/3 1/1 — 1/1
1.  Mike Coupe was unable to attend one audit committee meeting due to prior 
commitments with J Sainsbury plc.
2.  Lynne Weedall was unable to attend one board meeting due to prior commitments 
with Selfridges Group.
3. Philip Yea was appointed to the board on 2 February 2016.
GREENE KING BOARD
The board is ultimately responsible for the long-term success of the company. Its principal responsibilities are to:
 – approve the group’s long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall funding strategy;
 – approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts;
 – approve acquisitions and disposals; and
 – oversee the group’s operations and review performance in the light of the group’s strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
NOMINATION
 – reviews structure, size and composition 
of the board; 
 – makes recommendations for 
appointments; and
 – succession planning.
Philip Yea (Chairman)
Mike Coupe
Ian Durant
Rob Rowley
Lynne Weedall
AUDIT
 – reviews and monitors full year 
and interim results; 
 – monitors internal financial controls; 
 – oversees external audit relationship; and
 – oversees risk management.
Ian Durant (Chairman)
Mike Coupe
Rob Rowley
REMUNERATION
 – sets remuneration policy; 
 – sets executive director remuneration 
and incentives; 
 – approves annual performance 
objectives; and
 – approves granting of long-term incentives.
Lynne Weedall (Chairman)
Mike Coupe
Ian Durant
Rob Rowley GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board effectiveness
Board performance and evaluation
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the board to conduct an 
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and 
directors. This year, on account of the impending retirement of Tim Bridge 
as chairman, there was no formal evaluation of Tim Bridge’s performance 
as chairman. 
The board evaluation exercise was carried out by Philip Yea, who conducted 
an informal review comprising individual meetings with each director to 
elicit any immediate concerns or issues that he should take account of in 
formulating the future conduct, structure and agenda for the board. No 
material concerns were expressed, and so discussions focussed on future 
board composition (given the planned retirement of Ian Durant at the 
AGM), future topics for board review, including succession planning and 
talent management, and other potential changes to board agendas given 
the increased scale of the group following the acquisition of Spirit. The 
findings were recorded in a paper considered by the board at its meeting 
in June 2016.
In addition to the annual evaluation exercise there remains an on-going 
dialogue within the board to ensure that it operates effectively and that 
any matters raised are addressed in a timely manner. 
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the 
remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review 
and the payment of bonuses. 
Training and support
The training needs of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed 
and each director is responsible for ensuring their skills and knowledge of 
the company remain up to date. Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring 
that directors are aware of proposed legislative changes in areas such 
as corporate governance, financial reporting and sector specific issues. 
All directors are encouraged to visit the company’s pubs and restaurants 
and do so throughout the year. 
Newly-appointed directors receive a tailored induction on joining the 
board to acquaint them with the company. This includes meetings with 
other board members and senior management, and the provision of an 
induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies 
and procedures, financial and operational information and a briefing on 
directors’ responsibilities. Philip Yea received a particularly detailed induction 
on joining the board given his future role as chairman of the board, and 
met all the board directors individually and a large number of senior 
managers across the business.
There is an agreed written procedure for directors, in furtherance of their 
duties, to take independent professional advice at the company’s expense. 
Directors also have access to the services of the company secretary. The 
company has in place directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.
Commitment and conflicts of interest
All significant commitments which the directors have outside Greene King 
are disclosed prior to appointment and on an on-going basis when there 
are any changes. The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the 
non-executive directors commits sufficient time to their duties and fulfils 
their obligations to the company.
The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve 
potential situational conflicts of interest. A small number of such potential 
conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain 
directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any 
decision relating to their own position. Directors are also aware that the 
disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not 
detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual 
or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company. 
Communication with shareholders 
The board is keen to ensure that our shareholders have a good understanding 
of the business and its performance, and that the directors are aware of 
any issues or concerns which shareholders may have. Communication 
with shareholders takes a variety of forms.
Institutional shareholders and analysts
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings 
after the announcement of the year-end and interim results. Analysts are 
also invited to presentations at those times and separately to analyst trips 
to visit our premises and hear presentations on specific divisions of the 
business. The board receives regular reports and feedback on the meetings 
held between the executive directors and principal shareholders, and 
copies of analysts’ reports on the company. 
The senior independent non-executive director, Rob Rowley, is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns about governance issues which the 
normal channels of contact fail to resolve. 
AGM
The AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with 
private shareholders, who receive a brief presentation on the business 
before the formal business of the meeting begins. They also have the full 
opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors 
and senior management informally after the meeting. The board aims to 
ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen 
of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM. 
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty working 
days before the meeting. All substantive items of business at shareholders’ 
meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution 
to adopt the annual report. The chairman announces the results of the 
proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show 
of hands. 
The next AGM will be held on 9 September 2016 at the Millennium 
Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, 
Suffolk CB8 0TF. Details can be found in the separate notice of meeting.
Website
The company maintains a website (www.greeneking.co.uk) to provide 
up-to-date, detailed information on the company’s operations and brands, 
which includes a dedicated investor relations section. All company 
announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for 
presentations to investment analysts. We are happy to answer questions 
by telephone or email (investorrelations@greeneking.co.uk or 
companysecretary@greeneking.co.uk).
Board committees
The board has established a nomination committee, an audit committee 
and a remuneration committee, each of which has formal terms of reference 
governing its method of operation. Each of the terms of reference, which 
have been approved by the board, are available on request or to download 
from the company’s website and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
DTR disclosure
The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, the nomination 
committee report and the audit committee report, except for information 
required under DTR 7.2.6 which is set out in the directors’ report.
Corporate governance statement continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Membership
During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge. 
The other members of the committee were Mike Coupe, Ian Durant, 
Rob Rowley, Lynne Weedall and Philip Yea (following his appointment as 
a director in February 2016). Apart from Tim Bridge, all members were 
considered by the board to be independent. On Tim Bridge’s retirement at 
the end of the financial year Philip Yea took over as chairman of the committee.
Responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the nomination committee are to identify, 
evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment to the board, to review 
regularly the structure, size and composition (including skills, knowledge 
and experience) of the board and to make recommendations to the board 
with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary. 
The committee is also responsible for considering the company’s succession 
plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the 
challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what skills and expertise 
are therefore needed on the board in the future, and for reviewing membership 
of the board’s committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed 
upon any individuals.
Activities during the year
The committee held three meetings during the year. Attendance at these 
meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 49. 
Tim Bridge advised the non-executive directors during 2015 that he was 
considering retiring from the board, and so a key activity for the committee 
was to find a suitable successor to him. The committee reviewed a panel of 
head hunters to assist them in the process and chose The Zygos Partnership, 
which has no other connection with the company and which has signed up 
to the voluntary code of conduct on matters such as diversity for executive 
search firms. In conjunction with them, a job specification and a profile 
of the likely characteristics, qualifications, experience and merits required 
were produced before starting the search, with the aim of finding a short 
list of candidates suited to the role, without prejudice between male 
and female candidates.
A long-list of candidates was initially drawn up for the role, from which 
a short-list evolved after extensive discussions by the committee. Rob Rowley, 
as senior independent director, as well as all the other members of the 
nomination committee and Rooney Anand, the chief executive, then 
interviewed the short-listed candidates before the committee made 
a formal recommendation to the board that Philip Yea be appointed 
to the board, initially as a non-executive director and member of the 
nomination and remuneration committees, with a view to him taking over 
as chairman of the board from the start of the current financial year. The 
handover process worked well, giving Philip Yea time for a well-planned and 
extensive induction process, and participation in two board meetings, 
including the strategy sessions, before taking over as chairman.
The committee has also begun the search for a new non-executive director 
to replace Ian Durant who will be retiring at the AGM in September. 
The Zygos Partnership has also been appointed to conduct the search, 
with the aim of finding a suitable candidate.
In terms of committee composition, it was noted that Rob Rowley would 
be taking over as chairman of the audit committee on the retirement of 
Ian Durant, given his recent and relevant financial experience (as former 
finance director of Reuters Group plc). Philip Yea, initially appointed to be 
a member of both the nomination and remuneration committees, became 
chairman of the nomination committee and stood down from the remuneration 
committee with effect from the beginning of the current financial year. 
No other changes were recommended to the composition of the 
board committees. 
The issues of succession planning and board structure will remain the ongoing 
focus of the committee during the course of the forthcoming year.
On the recommendation of the nomination committee, and taking into 
account the continuing effective performance of the directors, the board 
has decided once again this year to ask all ongoing directors to stand for 
re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Philip Yea 
who will be standing for election for the first time.
Other matters considered by the committee during the year included the 
board evaluation exercise, training requirements for directors and the 
committee’s terms of reference. 
Diversity
The board approves of the principle of trying to recruit more women into 
senior management and director roles. There is currently one female director 
on the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the remuneration committee. 
With a board of seven people, the board believes that the key is to ensure 
a suitable range of skills, experience and knowledge across the board members, 
and that the issues of gender and diversity are just two considerations 
to be taken into account when filling board vacancies.
I am pleased to introduce our nomination committee 
report for 2015/16, which explains the committee’s 
focus and activities during the year, a key part of which 
related to my own appointment as a non-executive 
director and chairman-elect. Having now taken over as 
chairman of the board and of the nomination committee 
I shall endeavour to ensure that the committee continues 
to focus on succession planning and on ensuring that 
the size, composition and structure of the board is 
appropriate for the delivery of the group’s strategic 
objectives and that all relevant provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code continue to be met. 
Philip Yea
Chairman of the nomination committee
Nomination committee report GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Membership
The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant. The 
other members of the committee were Mike Coupe and Rob Rowley. 
All members are considered by the board to be independent. The board 
is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and relevant financial experience, as 
the former finance director of Liberty International plc, since renamed as 
Intu Properties PLC, and the current audit committee chairman at Home 
Retail Group plc. Looking forward Rob Rowley, who is the former finance 
director of Reuters Group plc, will take over as chairman of the committee 
following Ian Durant’s retirement from the board at the AGM in September.
Responsibilities
A key responsibility for the audit committee is reviewing the financial 
reporting, controls and risk management processes across the group. 
The committee assesses the external audit conclusions on both the full 
year and interim results, in each case prior to their submission to the 
board. Whilst the board retains responsibility for undertaking the required 
assessment that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, 
the audit committee this year, at the request of the board, has undertaken 
a review of this prior to submission of the annual report to the board, 
as detailed below. 
The committee also reviews the company’s internal control systems, 
advises the board on the appointment of external auditor, oversees 
the relationship with the external auditors, and reviews the quality and 
effectiveness of both the internal and the external audit. In addition, 
the committee is responsible for considering the company’s whistle 
blowing procedures and reviewing their effectiveness in practice. 
In relation to risk matters, the committee reviews the group’s risk 
management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board 
and receives detailed reports on the risk management processes within 
the business units and key functional areas. The committee receives 
regular updates on regulatory, accounting and reporting developments 
and their application to the company.
Operation of the committee
The committee held three half-day meetings during the year. Attendance 
at these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on 
page 49. On each occasion the external auditors, chief financial officer and 
senior members of the finance function attended, as well as the company 
secretary, head of risk and members of the internal audit function. By rotation, 
operational managers and functional heads present risk reports at audit 
committee meetings.
There is an opportunity at each meeting for the committee to discuss 
matters privately with the internal and external auditors without management 
present. Outside of scheduled meeting times, the chairman of the committee 
is in regular contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters 
relevant to the company. 
The committee’s terms of reference are available on the company’s website 
and these are reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the 
responsibility and regulation of the committee. In addition, the committee 
conducts a review of its own performance on an annual basis, taking input 
from the members of the committee, the external auditor and senior members 
of the finance function. As a result of the review the audit committee has 
assisted the board in its fair, balanced and understandable review of the 
annual report, as explained below. 
Financial statements and audit
The committee reviewed and provided input into the audit scope and audit 
plan presented by the external auditor, ensuring there was adequate focus 
on the fair value issues arising from the acquisition of Spirit. In considering 
the financial statements the committee reviewed the group’s accounting 
policies to ensure consistency on a year-to-year basis, and that appropriate 
accounting policies were adopted for new issues such as brand valuations 
associated with the acquisition of Spirit. Significant issues that the committee 
addressed in relation to the financial statements are set out in the table 
on page 53. The committee also reviewed management’s attestation paper 
setting out the information that had been provided to the auditor to enable 
it to form its opinion on the group’s financial statements and demonstrating 
that it was appropriate for the directors to make the representations set out 
in the letter of representation. 
Audit committee report
I am pleased to introduce our 
audit committee report for 2015/16. 
The committee’s key responsibilities 
include monitoring the integrity of 
the group’s financial reporting, internal 
controls and risk management procedures, 
overseeing the internal and external 
audit processes and a range of other 
corporate governance activities. 
During the year the committee devoted particular 
attention to the following key areas: the year-end 
financial statements and interim report and associated 
audit matters, with particular focus on the accounting 
treatment of certain matters arising as a result of the 
acquisition of Spirit Pub Company; the relationship with 
the external auditor, including audit tender and audit 
partner rotation review; and risk management processes 
and internal controls. In particular the committee 
reviewed the viability statement on page 37 before 
it was recommended to the board.
I will be retiring from the board at the AGM in September 
and therefore, during 2016/17, under the stewardship of 
Rob Rowley, the committee will continue its focus on 
the financial statements, on governance matters and 
on risk management, whilst at the same time ensuring 
that the new Ernst & Young audit partner, as explained 
below, has a full and detailed understanding of the issues 
facing the business and is able to deliver a robust and 
detailed audit of the group’s financial statements. 
Ian Durant
Chairman of the audit committee Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Significant issues considered by the audit committee in relation to the financial statements for 2015/16
Matter considered What the committee did
Fair value accounting 
for acquired Spirit 
assets and liabilities
The committee reviewed the proposed fair value accounting treatment of assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the 
Spirit acquisition and the changes proposed to the interim adjustments applied by management at the half year. In particular, 
it considered key judgmental areas including off-market leases, brand valuations and property and lease valuations and the 
treatment of goodwill, ensuring an appropriately rigorous process had been applied to determine fair values based on reasonable 
assumptions. In particular, the committee noted the assessments of independent advisers appointed to undertake property 
valuations of the Spirit estate and to consider the valuation of brands and other intangible assets. Following discussions with 
the external auditors, the committee concluded that the proposed accounting treatment of the Spirit assets and liabilities 
was reasonable and confirmed that the fair values set out in note 7 to the financial statements were appropriate.
Uncertain tax 
positions
The committee undertook a detailed review of uncertain tax positions which have not yet been agreed or are in dispute with 
HMRC. Whilst many of the uncertain tax provisions have been resolved with HMRC, the largest of these, an internal funding 
arrangement undertaken in 2003/4, known as Sussex, remains outstanding. The committee satisfied itself that an appropriate 
provision was in place in respect of this uncertain tax position following discussion with the external auditor. 
Impairment 
of property, plant 
and equipment 
Management prepared a detailed report for consideration by the committee concerning the methodology used to determine 
the extent of any impairment required. The committee considered the methodology used, reviewed management’s proposals 
and considered the expected timetable for the disposal of non-core sites. The committee assessed the proposed changes to 
both the underlying growth rates and the discount rate used and determined them to be appropriate. The committee agreed 
that the growth rates were appropriate at this stage even in light of possible consumer uncertainty following the referendum 
vote to leave the European Union. The external auditors were asked for their input and the committee took into account their 
views on the questions raised. Following the review and discussions the committee concluded that an impairment of £32.2m 
was appropriate in relation to property, plant and equipment. 
Funding headroom 
and covenants and 
the viability 
statement
The committee reviewed the group’s funding headroom and covenants in conjunction with the review of the use of the going 
concern assumption and, in particular, the viability statement on page 37. The committee considered the time period proposed 
for the viability statement, challenged management’s projections, assumptions and stress testing (which included material reductions 
in planned growth rates), as well as the extent to which mitigating actions would achieve the desired outcomes, and took into 
account the external auditor’s comments on its own work on this issue. 
Accounting for 
supplier income and 
customer rebates
The committee reviewed the group’s accounting for supplier income, including listing fees, performance fees and volume 
rebates, noting that such income is not recognised until it can be reliably estimated. The auditor’s review of both supplier 
income and customer rebates was considered. During 2015/16 the annual value of supplier fees and rebates amounted to 
approximately £27m, whilst customer rebates amounted to £22m in the year. The committee was satisfied that the current 
controls in place provided reasonable assurance that the risks associated with these areas were being appropriately managed. 
Accounting for 
deferred tax
The committee reviewed the changes to the deferred tax provision for rolled over gains and property revaluations, which led to 
a £26.8m deferred tax credit. The auditor’s review of the capital gains model and HMRC’s review as part of the dispute resolution 
process were considered. The committee was satisfied that the revised deferred tax provision for capital gains was appropriate. 
Fair balanced and understandable annual report
One of the key governance requirements in relation to the annual report 
is that it should be fair, balanced and understandable. At the request of the 
board this year, the audit committee undertook a review of management’s 
processes in this regard (including the clear guidance given to contributors and 
the review process adopted by management) and also considered in detail 
the draft annual report to ensure that it was fair, balanced and understandable 
in their view. The committee then recommended to the board that it could 
make the required disclosure as set out on page 69.
Effectiveness of the external audit 
After the 2014/15 audit was completed a review of the effectiveness of the 
auditor and of the audit service was undertaken, supported by a questionnaire 
completed by the audit committee chairman, the chief financial officer, and 
a number of key members of the finance team involved in the preparation 
of the statutory accounts. The overall quality of the service, the audit partner 
and the audit team were all reviewed and matters such as the management 
of the audit team, the quality of its challenge, insight and communications 
and the cost-effectiveness of the audit were considered. Taking into account 
the internal review the committee was satisfied that the quality of the audit 
service provided by Ernst & Young LLP was appropriate. The feedback 
from the review was also provided to Ernst & Young LLP. The committee 
also took into account the quality of the audit firm procedures as 
published by the Financial Reporting Council. 
Ensuring external auditor independence
The audit committee is cognisant of the importance of auditor independence 
and objectivity and has a policy in relation to the use of the auditor for 
non-audit work. The company will award non-audit work to the firm 
which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question, 
taking into account the skills and experience of the firm; and (if the audit 
firm is being considered) the nature of the services involved, the level of 
fees relative to the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in place to 
mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and independence 
in the conduct of the audit resulting from such services. 
Work estimated to cost in excess of £25,000 is put out to tender unless 
agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee. The chief 
financial officer may approve specific engagements up to £50,000 (in 
aggregate up to £100,000 p.a.), and the chairman of the audit committee 
may approve engagements up to £100,000 (in aggregate up to £200,000 
p.a.), with fees in excess of those limits being subject to approval of the full 
committee. This policy was complied with during the year.
The audit committee has considered a revised policy for non-audit services 
in line with the recent guidance issued by the FRC which will have effect 
for the group’s 2017/18 financial year. Now that the guidance is finalised, 
the audit committee will confirm its policy and implement it before the 
2017/18 financial year. The revised policy will be more restrictive than 
that which currently exists.
The committee also has a policy in relation to the appointment of former 
partners or employees of the auditor by the group, which provides that audit 
partners will not be offered employment by Greene King or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings within two years of undertaking any role on the audit. Other 
key team members will not be offered employment by Greene King within 
six months of undertaking any role on the audit. Other audit team members 
who accept employment by Greene King must cease activity on the audit 
as soon as they tender their resignation to the audit firm. No members 
of the audit team have joined Greene King in the period. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Audit committee report continued
Ensuring external auditor independence continued
During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within 
Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work, including acting as auditors to the 
Belhaven pension scheme and in relation to the restated FRS 101 accounts 
for Greene King Finance plc, required in relation to the secured financing 
completed in May 2016. The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during 
the year amounted to £0.65m of which £12k related to prior year expenses, 
and £0.04m (6%) related to non-audit work. Further detail is in note 4 
to the financial statements.
In considering the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, 
and the further safeguards in place to protect it, the committee noted the 
annual review undertaken by the external auditor identifying all services 
provided to the group and determined that carrying out such work did not, 
and will not going forward, impair the independence of the external auditor.
External auditor – tendering and re-appointment
The company last tendered the external audit contract in 1997 and 
Ernst & Young have been the auditor since then, with an annual rolling contract 
and subject to an annual shareholder vote at the AGM. Ernst & Young LLP 
are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group every 
five years and the current audit partner’s term ends with completion 
of this annual report. 
In accordance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014 (the Order) and in the light of the transitional 
provisions on audit matters thereunder which allow a period until April 2024 
before an audit tender and change is required, and given the change of audit 
committee chairman which will take place immediately after the signing of 
this annual report, the committee recommended to the board, and the board 
accepted the recommendation, that Ernst & Young LLP should be retained 
as the group’s auditors for the time being. A new audit partner will be 
in place for the 2016/17 financial year audit, and the committee will give 
consideration to undertaking a full audit tender, in which Ernst & Young LLP 
will not be permitted to partake, within the next five years. The company 
was in compliance with the Order during the year.
The committee therefore recommended to the board that Ernst & Young LLP 
should be reappointed as the company’s auditor for the forthcoming year. 
This resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM. 
Internal audit
The company’s internal audit function is responsible for reviewing the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the systems of internal control in place 
to safeguard the assets of the company. Under the terms of reference 
for the function, the internal audit team has direct access to the audit 
committee chairman to enable it to raise any significant issues and to 
maintain independence. Members of the internal audit team also attend 
the audit committee meetings to report on the progress and actions taken 
by the function. During the year, as well as full reviews of relevant areas, 
the internal audit function had also carried out a number of key financial 
control reviews, all of which were reported to management and the 
committee. The committee also reviewed the resources available to the 
internal audit function both in the short term following the acquisition 
of Spirit and on a longer term basis, noting that resources have been 
increased during the year. 
Other matters considered during the year
The committee considered the group’s policy in relation to the valuation 
of its property assets, in the light of the fact that Spirit operated with an 
annual revaluation policy, whereas Greene King has historically adopted 
a policy whereby property plant and equipment are valued at cost or deemed 
cost on transition to IFRS. The committee considered the advantages and 
disadvantages of each approach and recommended to the board no change 
to Greene King’s policy in this regard.
The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual basis, the group’s whistle 
blowing policy and its application across the business. All whistle blowing 
reports were investigated and resolved satisfactorily, with no significant 
issues emerging.
The committee has continued to review the subject of cyber security and 
receives regular reports from management on the issue and how it is 
managing external threats in this area. At the request of the committee, 
management undertook further testing (including by external consultants) 
of the company’s defences against a cyber security attack, implemented 
a number of additional security measures as a result and addressed the 
content of regular committee reporting on this topic. 
The terms of reference of the committee were also reviewed during the 
year and an exercise was undertaken to assess the effectiveness of the 
audit committee itself. 
Internal control and risk management
As disclosed in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report on page 33, 
there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
principal risks faced by the company. The board has overall responsibility 
for the group’s risk management framework and systems of internal 
control and for reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee 
monitors and reviews those internal controls and risks on a regular basis, 
and reports to the board on its findings. During the course of the year the 
committee continued to review reports from a number of business units 
and functional areas on their respective risk management processes and key 
risks and on the key financial internal controls and to challenge representatives 
of the relevant business unit or functional area who attended those meetings 
to present the relevant reports. The risk management framework and 
internal control systems are designed to manage to an acceptable level, 
and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. They 
can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the group’s assets 
are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the business 
and for external reporting is reliable. 
The company has in place procedures to assess the key risks to which it is 
exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address 
these and other issues. There are processes in place which accord with 
the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and these remained 
in place up to the date of this report. The board is satisfied that there are 
no significant weaknesses in these systems and that the group’s internal 
controls are operating effectively.
The key elements of the internal control framework, in addition to the risk 
management processes outlined in the risks and uncertainties section 
of this report, are:
 – the schedule of matters reserved for the board;
 – the group’s defined management structure with suitable authority limits 
and responsibilities, staffed by appropriate personnel;
 – regular updates for the board on strategy;
 – a comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedure including 
annual budgets and a three-year strategic plan, both of which are 
reviewed and approved by the board; 
 – ongoing monitoring by both the board and senior management of 
performance against budgets, through the periodic reporting of detailed 
management accounts and key performance indicators;
 – ongoing monitoring by the board of compliance with financial covenants;
 – a centralised financial reporting system and close process, with controls 
and reconciliation procedures designed to facilitate the production 
of the consolidated accounts; 
 – clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and 
disposals, capital expenditure and project control, with escalating levels 
of authority (including board approval for major acquisitions and disposals), 
detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews;
 – review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal audit team 
responsible and other analytical and control procedures facilitated by 
the EPOS till system;
 – audits conducted by the group internal audit function of business 
and functional control environments; and
 – documented policies to cover bribery and whistle-blowing and regular 
updates on any incidents. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report
I am pleased once again to be able to summarise the 
company’s remuneration policy, the way in which it has 
been implemented during the last financial year and 
the way it will be implemented this forthcoming year.
The remuneration committee remains very mindful 
of investor interest in executive remuneration and has 
again sought to ensure that the remuneration policies 
and practices at Greene King drive appropriate behaviours 
by management that are in the long term interests 
of the company and its shareholders.
Lynne Weedall
Chairman of the remuneration committee
Annual statement
Shareholders approved the remuneration policy for the company’s directors 
at the 2014 AGM, and in line with the regulations on directors’ remuneration, 
the company will next submit its policy to shareholders for approval in 2017. 
Whilst the policy is not required to be presented this year, it has been set 
out in full in this report to assist you in reviewing the implementation of 
the policy in the 2015/16 financial year, details of which are set out in the 
annual report on remuneration on pages 59 to 66. This latter report is 
subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Decisions during the year
As I highlighted in last year’s directors’ remuneration report, given the 
significant changes to the size and complexity of the group as a result of 
the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, the remuneration committee gave a 
commitment to review executive director base salary levels and other 
elements of the directors’ remuneration policy during 2015/16.
Following the completion of the review, the main conclusions reached 
were that no changes should be made to the directors’ remuneration 
policy at this time although a number of decisions were made in respect 
of the operation of the policy.
In particular, in the light of a detailed review of the changes in the size and 
complexity of the group as a result of the Spirit acquisition, the progress 
that management was making in respect of the integration and the individual 
performance of the two executive directors, the remuneration committee 
awarded base salary increases of 13% and 7% to the chief executive and 
chief financial officer respectively, with effect from 19 October 2015, the 
half year point. Further details are set out on page 61. It should be noted 
however that no further increase to the executive directors’ base salary 
was made in May this year, and no further changes will be considered 
until May 2017.
In addition, the committee reviewed the various outstanding long-term 
incentive plan (LTIP) award performance targets to ensure that it was 
satisfied that the EPS and ROCE target ranges provide an appropriate level 
of stretch in light of the acquisition of Spirit. As such, targets for the 2013 
and 2014 awards have been adjusted to take into account the anticipated 
impact of the Spirit acquisition (excluding synergies) and, given that the 
performance targets for the 2015 LTIP awards were set without taking 
into account the expected impact of Spirit, the committee has significantly 
toughened the targets in respect of these awards. Consistent with best 
practice, major investors were consulted in respect of the adjustments, 
which are explained on page 62.
Pay for performance
Bonus pay outs for this year were 97.5% of eligible salary for the 
chief executive and 77.5% of eligible salary for the chief financial officer, 
reflecting the stretching targets set at the beginning of the year. The LTIP 
awards granted in 2013 are expected to vest in August this year at 100% 
of the maximum for the core LTIP award and 76% of the maximum for 
the growth LTIP award. 
We are happy to receive feedback from shareholders at any time in 
relation to our remuneration policies and hope to receive your support 
for the resolution referred to above at the forthcoming AGM.
Lynne Weedall
Chairman of the remuneration committee
28 June 2016 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Policy report
This section of the report sets out Greene King’s current remuneration 
policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM by 96% of shareholders who 
voted. No changes are being made to the policy this year and, therefore, the 
policy is set out below for information only. Details of actual remuneration 
paid, LTIP awards granted and the associated performance conditions are 
set out in the annual report on remuneration which starts on page 59.
Policy overview
The key objective of the company’s remuneration policy is to provide 
a remuneration structure that is aligned with shareholder interests and 
that enables us to attract, motivate and retain talented and high quality 
individuals able to deliver continued growth of the business and achieve 
the group’s strategic aims. The remuneration package is designed to be 
competitive but not excessive and to contain an appropriate balance between 
fixed and variable remuneration and, for the variable remuneration, 
between short-term and longer-term performance. 
The committee has considered whether there are any aspects of the 
policy which could inadvertently encourage executives to take inappropriate 
risk and is satisfied that this is not the case. The committee has also ensured 
that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior management 
does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Details of each element of remuneration, their purpose, link to strategy 
and their operation and performance metrics are set out below.
Policy table
Element of 
remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Salary To recruit, 
reward and 
retain high calibre 
executives with 
an appropriately 
competitive 
base salary.
Base salaries are reviewed annually or 
when a change in responsibility occurs, 
to reflect the executive's responsibilities, 
market value and sustained performance 
level. In setting pay levels, the committee 
considers current market practice and 
makes comparisons against a selection 
of other companies determined 
by reference to turnover, market 
capitalisation and operational details. 
When reviewing base salaries, the 
committee is mindful of the gearing effect 
that increases in base salary will have on 
the potential total remuneration of the 
executive directors.
There is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase. 
The committee is guided by 
the general increase for the 
broader employee population 
but on occasions may need 
to recognise, for example, 
an increase in the scale, scope 
or responsibility of the role.
—
Annual 
performance 
bonus
To incentivise 
executive 
directors to 
deliver superior 
performance 
during the course 
of a year, and 
to promote 
retention and 
stability amongst 
the senior 
management 
team. Performance 
measures and 
targets are designed 
to reinforce 
strategic priorities 
for the year.
Performance measures and targets 
are set at the beginning of each financial 
year to ensure that the measures and 
weightings are appropriate and support 
the business strategy. Bonuses are payable 
after the end of each financial year, based 
on performance against those targets. 
Bonuses are non-pensionable. A clawback 
mechanism applies in the event of a 
material misstatement of the group's 
accounts, error or gross misconduct. 
A maximum of 100% of 
salary can be earned by the 
executive directors, with 
no bonus payable for below 
threshold performance and 
up to 75% of salary for target 
levels of performance. 
Payment of bonuses is 
dependent on a mixture of 
financial targets and specific 
personal targets. In relation 
to the financial targets, awards 
are made on a straight-line 
basis for performance 
between threshold and target 
and on a separate straight-line 
basis for performance 
between target and maximum.
Performance is measured 
relative to challenging targets 
in key financial measures. 
Details of measures and 
weightings for the 2015/16 
financial year and of the 
proposed measures and 
weightings for next year's 
annual bonus, are set out 
in the annual report on 
remuneration, which starts 
on page 59. An explanation 
of how the performance 
measures were chosen is 
given in the notes below.
Remuneration report continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 57
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Element of 
remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Long term 
incentive plan 
("LTIP")
To incentivise 
the executive 
directors to 
deliver superior 
levels of long-term 
performance for 
the benefit of 
shareholders, 
thereby aligning 
their interests 
with those of 
our long-term 
shareholders.
The committee normally makes an annual 
LTIP award, usually in the form of nil-cost 
options. The awards are subject to suitably 
stretching performance conditions set by 
the committee, which are reviewed annually. 
Awards normally vest on the third 
anniversary of grant, subject to performance, 
and will be exercisable until the tenth 
anniversary of grant. A clawback mechanism 
applies in the event of a material misstatement 
of the group's accounts, error or 
gross misconduct. 
A maximum of 200% of salary 
can be awarded each year, 
100% as a core LTIP and 
100% as a growth LTIP. 
Dividend equivalents will be 
paid on any shares that vest. 
The core LTIP will be subject 
to a suitably stretching EPS 
target and the growth LTIP 
to a suitably stretching ROCE 
target. Performance will 
normally be measured over 
a three year period. Vesting 
will generally be subject to 
continued employment. 
The committee retains the 
discretion to scale back the 
vesting levels of the growth 
LTIP award in appropriate 
circumstances. 
Shareholding 
policy
To align the 
interests of 
the executive 
directors with 
shareholders 
and to promote 
a long-term 
approach.
Executive directors are required to build 
and retain a shareholding of at least 100% 
of salary. To the extent that the shareholding 
requirement has not been met, executives 
will be expected to retain at least 50% 
of the net exercised LTIP awards until 
the requirement is met.
Pension To offer market 
competitive levels 
of benefit.
The company contributes to defined 
contribution pension arrangements for 
the executive directors or provides cash 
in lieu where appropriate.
Current company contribution 
levels are 25% for the chief 
executive and 20% for the 
chief financial officer.
—
Benefits To be 
appropriately 
competitive with 
those offered 
at comparator 
companies.
Benefits comprise the provision of 
company cars (or cash allowances in lieu 
thereof), fuel for company cars, life 
assurance, permanent health insurance 
and private medical insurance. 
Benefits are reviewed 
periodically in line with market 
practice and are not pensionable.
—
All employee 
share 
schemes
All employees, 
including executive 
directors, have 
the opportunity 
to build their 
shareholding in a 
tax-efficient way 
by participating 
in the company's 
HMRC approved 
sharesave scheme.
Employees are invited to participate in the 
sharesave in January each year provided 
that they have the requisite service.
The maximum saving under 
the sharesave scheme will be 
no more than HMRC 
approved limits, allowing 
employees to buy company 
shares at up to a 20% discount 
at the end of a three or five 
year savings period.
—
Notes:
1.  A description of how the company intends to implement the policy set out in this table 
for 2016/17 is set out in the annual report on remuneration, which starts on page 59.
2.  The choice of performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect 
the committee’s belief that the compensation should be appropriately stretching, but 
achievable, and tied to both the delivery of profit growth, key financial metrics and 
specific individual objectives. 
3.  The EPS performance condition underpinning the core LTIP award was selected by 
the committee on the basis that it would reward the delivery of long-term financial 
growth and is the most widely understood profit-based measure across the business. 
ROCE was chosen as the performance condition to apply to the growth LTIP award 
as it will ensure that management focuses on generating the necessary returns in 
excess of the cost of capital and because it provides a more strategic measure of long 
term performance, where capital needs to be re-deployed in order to focus on Pub 
Company. The performance targets are set by the committee following a detailed 
review of the company’s projections and are believed to be appropriately stretching.
4.  The policy and practice for the remuneration of employees generally differs 
from that for the executive directors as follows:
 – A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity (or zero bonus opportunity) 
may apply to employees other than the executive directors and certain senior 
executives and targets may differ by business unit and by employee.
 – Other employees may receive fewer or lower levels of benefits than those for 
executive directors. Company car benefits are only offered where required for 
the role or to meet market norms.
 – Pension contribution levels may be lower for employees generally compared 
with those for the executive directors.
 – Participation in the core LTIP is limited to the executive directors and around 
40 senior managers. Participation in the growth LTIP is limited to an even smaller 
senior management population. These differences generally arise from the development 
of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for various categories 
of employees. They also reflect the fact that, in the case of executive directors 
and senior executives, there is a greater emphasis on performance related pay.
5.  Subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, executive 
directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval 
and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Indicative total remuneration levels
The graphs below provide scenarios for the potential future reward 
opportunity for each executive director, and the potential split between 
the different elements of remuneration, under three different 
performance scenarios – minimum, on- target and maximum.
Chief executive officer
3,000,000
2,500,000
2,000,000
500,000
1,000,000
1,500,000
0
Maximum On-target Minimum
42%
30%
33%
47%
24%
23%
100%
£833k
£2,768k
£1,962k
 Core and growth LTIP
 Annual Bonus
 Salary, pension and benefits
Chief financial officer
1,500,000
1,200,000
900,000
300,000
600,000
0
Maximum On-target Minimum
42%
29%
32%
47%
26%
24%
£438k
£1,486k
£1,024k
 Core and growth LTIP
 Annual Bonus
 Salary, pension and benefits
Notes:
1.  Minimum relates to the value of the package assuming that current salary, benefits 
and pension alone are paid. 
2.  The on-target annual bonus opportunity, based on stretching performance targets, 
is 75% of salary for the chief executive and 75% for the chief financial officer.
3.  The on-target vesting level under the core LTIP and the growth LTIP is assumed 
to be 50% and 50% respectively.
4. The maximum scenario assumes full bonus payout and full vesting of LTIP awards. 
5.  No assumption as to share price growth is made in either the on-target 
or the maximum scenarios.
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in 
accordance with the terms of the company’s prevailing approved remuneration 
policy at the time of recruitment. In particular, the annual bonus potential 
will be limited to 100% of salary and awards under the LTIP will be limited 
to 200% of salary.
In the case of an external hire, if required to secure an individual, the 
committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it 
considers them to be in the best interests of the company, to take account 
of deferred remuneration forfeited by the new hire when leaving their former 
employer. Any such additional payments would be one-off in nature, would 
reflect where possible the nature, time horizons and performance requirements 
attaching to that forfeited remuneration and would be limited to the value 
of the forfeited remuneration.
For an internal promotion to executive director level, any variable pay 
element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
in accordance with its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the 
appointment. In addition, any other on-going remuneration obligations 
existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put 
to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity. 
For both external and internal appointments, the committee may agree 
that the company may meet certain relocation and/or incidental expenses 
as appropriate.
Service agreements and exit payment policy
Newly appointed executive directors are offered a service agreement 
with a notice period of one year. In the event of the employment of an 
executive director being terminated, the committee would take into 
account the commercial interests of the company, pay due regard to best 
practice and apply usual common law and contractual principles, including 
the individual’s duty to mitigate their loss.
The payment of any annual bonus in respect of the year of termination is 
subject to the discretion of the committee, which may determine that an 
annual bonus is payable with respect to the period of the financial year 
served, but pro-rated for time served, and not paid until the normal due 
date for the payment of bonuses. 
The vesting of any LTIP awards will be governed by the rules of the LTIP. 
Awards will normally lapse unless the individual is considered a ‘good leaver’. 
An individual would generally be considered a ‘good leaver’ if they left the 
group’s employment by reason of death, injury, ill-health, disability approved 
by the committee, or retirement, although the committee has the absolute 
discretion to treat any individual as a ‘good leaver’ for any other reason. 
In the case of a ‘good leaver’, payments would normally be scaled back 
to recognise the shorter period of service than the award was intended 
to cover and remain subject to outstanding performance conditions. 
Rooney Anand, whose employment with the company commenced on 
6 August 2001, is subject to a one year notice period from the company. 
His terms of employment do not contain any additional terms relating 
to compensation for termination of employment. The terms of his 
appointment as chief executive were agreed and set out in a letter 
dated 24 December 2004.
Kirk Davis’s employment, which commenced on 3 November 2014, is 
subject to the terms of a contract dated 29 September 2014. His employment 
may be terminated by the company on giving one year’s notice, without any 
additional terms relating to compensation for termination of employment.
There are no obligations on the company contained within the existing 
directors’ contracts which would give rise to payments not disclosed 
in this report.
Non-executive director policy table
Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment 
for three-year periods. The table below sets out, for each of the current 
directors, the start and expiry date of their respective appointments.
Director
Date of
appointment
Present
expiry date
Philip Yea 2 Feb 16 1 Feb 19
Mike Coupe 26 Jul 11 25 Jul 17
Ian Durant 16 Mar 07 9 Sep 16
Rob Rowley 18 Jul 14 17 Jul 17
Lynne Weedall 11 Oct 12 10 Oct 18 
Remuneration report continued
100% Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The appointments of all these non-executive directors can be terminated by the company at any time on three months’ written notice, notwithstanding 
the present expiry dates above.
The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the non-executive directors. The non-executive directors are 
not entitled to receive any pension, bonus or long-term incentive benefits from the company in respect of their roles as non-executive directors.
Element of remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Reward Performance metrics
Fee To recruit and retain 
appropriately qualified 
non-executive directors.
The chairman and non-executive director 
fees are typically reviewed every two 
years. Fees are benchmarked against 
similar roles in the sector and in other 
similar sized companies and reflect the 
time commitments and responsibilities 
of each role.
Non-executive director fees may 
include a basic fee and a fee for acting 
as a committee chairman. They are set 
at a level that is considered appropriately 
competitive in the light of market practice.
—
Benefits To be appropriately 
competitive with those 
offered at comparator 
companies.
The chairman's benefits include private 
healthcare and the provision of a 
company car.
Benefits are reviewed periodically in 
line with market practice. The value 
of the chairman's benefits will be 
comparable with those offered 
to the executive directors.
—
External directorships
The company’s policy is to allow executive directors to take up one or more non-executive directorships in an external company, subject to board 
approval. Fees received for serving as a non-executive director of an external company are retained by the executive director. 
Consultation
The company engages regularly with shareholders on matters relating to its strategy and business operations. Where necessary, we also engage with 
shareholders and their representative bodies on matters relating to executive remuneration and it is the committee’s policy to consult with major 
shareholders prior to making any major changes to its executive remuneration structure. 
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the group
The committee does not consult with employees when deciding remuneration policy, although it does receive information on salary increases 
and long-term incentives for employees across the group. 
Annual report on remuneration
This section of the report explains how Greene King’s remuneration policy has been implemented during the year.
The remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is appointed by the board. The members are Lynne Weedall (chairman), Mike Coupe, Ian Durant and Rob Rowley. 
Philip Yea was appointed as an additional member of the committee on 2 February 2016 but stepped down from the committee on 2 May 2016 
when he took over as chairman of the company. All of the committee members are regarded by the board as independent non-executive directors. 
The role of the committee, as set out in its terms of reference (which are available on the company’s website), includes determining the remuneration 
policy for the executive directors, the chairman and certain members of senior management. It agrees total individual remuneration packages, considers 
the granting of awards under the long-term incentive plan and determines bonuses payable to the executive directors and certain senior executives.
It approves the service contracts of the executive directors and any compensation arrangements arising from their termination. The committee is made aware 
of, and takes into account, the salary levels of the wider senior management team and of the incentive arrangements operating throughout the company.
During the year there were three scheduled meetings of the committee. Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 49.
Advisers to the remuneration committee
The committee has appointed New Bridge Street, part of Aon plc, to provide advice on general remuneration matters and comparator information. 
Aon plc provides insurance broking and consultancy services to the group. The committee is satisfied that the provision of these services does not in any 
way prejudice the position of New Bridge Street as independent advisers to the committee. Fees paid during the year to New Bridge Street in respect 
of advice to the committee, generally charged on a time spent basis, were £35,274. 
Rooney Anand, chief executive, attends meetings of the committee by invitation and provides advice to help the committee determine appropriate 
remuneration and incentive packages for the chief financial officer and the other senior executives, but he leaves the meeting when his own remuneration 
is being discussed. The chairman of the board also attends meetings of the committee by invitation. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 60
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Shareholder voting at the 2014 and 2015 AGM
The table below shows the results of the binding vote on the directors’ remuneration policy at the AGM held in September 2014 and the advisory vote 
on the 2014/15 directors’ remuneration report at the AGM held in September 2015.
Votes for Percentage Votes against Percentage Votes withheld
Approval of the directors' remuneration policy report – passed in 2014 138,964,449 95.8% 6,047,870 4.2% 2,105,782 
Approval of the remuneration report – passed in 2015 209,030,752 99.1% 1,916,795 0.9% 9,342,342
Audited information
Single figure of remuneration
The tables below show the details of the total remuneration paid to each director in 2015/16 and 2014/15.
Salary
or fees
£'000
Taxable
benefits
£'000
Pension-
related
benefits 
1
£'000
Annual
bonus
£'000
Long-term
incentives 
2
£'000
Total
£'000
2015/16 (52 weeks) (audited)
Executive directors
Rooney Anand 609 20 152 594 1,172 2,547
Kirk Davis 340 12 68 264 — 684
Non-executive directors
Tim Bridge 183 34 — — — 217
Mike Coupe 46 — — — — 46
Ian Durant 53 — — — — 53
Rob Rowley 46 — — — — 46
Lynne Weedall 53 — — — — 53
Philip Yea 11 — — — — 11
Salary
or fees
£'000
Taxable
benefits
£'000
Pension-
related
benefits 
1
£'000
Annual
bonus
£'000
Long-term
incentives 
2
£'000
Total
£'000
2014/15 (52 weeks) (audited)
Executive directors
Rooney Anand 554 22 139 332 1,092 2,139
Kirk Davis 160 6 32 118 — 316
Matthew Fearn 134 11 45 — 552 742
Non-executive directors
Tim Bridge 174 33 — — — 207
John Brady 10 — — — — 10
Mike Coupe 44 — — — — 44
Ian Durant 51 — — — — 51
Rob Rowley 35 — — — — 35
Lynne Weedall 51 — — — — 51
Notes:
1.  Pension benefits for the executive directors comprised cash in lieu of pension contributions.
2.  Long term incentives in 2015/16 comprised the value of the awards granted in October 2013, which will vest in October 2016 and which were subject to performance targets 
measured over the three years to May 2016. The value of the award has been calculated using £8.66, being the average share price for the last three months of the 2015/16 
financial year, and also takes into account the value of the dividend equivalent shares which accrued on the award. 100% vesting of the 2013 core LTIP award and 76% vesting 
of the 2013 growth LTIP has been assumed. For the long-term incentives in 2014/15 the actual share price on the date of vesting has been used (restated from the estimates 
of £1,088k for Rooney Anand and £550k for Matthew Fearn disclosed in the 2014/15 annual report).
Remuneration report continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 61
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of the elements included in the table above are as follows:
Base salary
The base salaries for 2015/16 for Rooney Anand and Kirk Davis (£567,970 and £328,000 respectively) were increased to £645,000 and £351,000 respectively 
with effect from 19 October 2015, following a detailed review by the committee of the changes in the size and complexity of the group as a result of 
the Spirit acquisition, the progress that management was making in respect of the integration and the individual performance of the two executive directors. 
The base fee for the chairman was £183,000, whilst the base fees for the non-executive directors were £46,000 for Mike Coupe, Rob Rowley and Philip Yea 
and £53,400 for Ian Durant and Lynne Weedall (due to their roles as chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees respectively). 
Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits were provided to directors in line with the policy table set out on page 56.
Pension-related benefits
Cash in lieu of pension contributions were in line with the policy table set out on page 56.
Annual bonus
Executive directors may earn bonuses depending on the company’s performance and their own individual performance. Awards for 2015/16 for the 
chief executive were based 90% on financial performance and 10% on individual performance, whilst for the chief financial officer the respective percentages 
were 72.5% on financial performance and 27.5% on individual performance.
For both the chief executive and the chief financial officer, the financial performance measures were based on profit before tax and exceptionals (PBTE), 
free cash flow and the amount of synergies captured from the Spirit acquisition. The target ranges, outcome and awards (as a % of salary) are included 
in the table below: 
Target range Outcome
Maximum
percentage
of bonus
Actual 
percentage
of bonus
Rooney Anand
PBTE (excluding fair value accounting adjustments) £243.5m – £249.0m £249.1m 62.5 62.5
Free cash flow
1
£26.0m – £32.0m £50.2m 15.0 15.0
Spirit synergies £11.0m – £13.0m £16.7m 12.5 12.5
Personal target
2
— — 10.0  7.5
Total 100.0 97.5
Kirk Davis 
PBTE (excluding fair value accounting adjustments) £243.5m – £249.0m £249.1m 50.0 50.0
Free cash flow
1
£26.0m – £32.0m £50.2m 12.5 12.5
Spirit synergies £11.0m – £13.0m £16.7m 10.0 10.0
Personal targets
3
— — 27.5 5.0
Total 100.0 77.5
Notes:
1.  Free cash flow significantly out-performed the target range as a result of better than anticipated trading, better than expected working capital from the Spirit business and lower 
than anticipated interest and pension costs.
2.  The personal target for Rooney Anand related to the strengthening and development of the senior executive team. Following the remuneration committee’s assessment 
of the personal target and actual performance, 7.5% of salary was awarded. 
3.  The personal targets for Kirk Davis related to targets linked to like for like sales growth and the performance of the senior finance team. As the like for like sales growth targets 
remain commercially sensitive, the target and result have not been disclosed above but will be disclosed next year. Following the remuneration committee’s assessment of the personal 
targets and actual performance, 5% of salary was awarded against these metrics.
Performance against the combined financial and individual targets resulted in bonuses being paid at £594k (97.5% of eligible salary) for the chief executive 
and at £264k (77.5% of eligible salary) for the chief financial officer. Eligible salary is salary earned during the relevant financial year.
Disclosure of 2014/15 bonus targets
On the basis that the financial targets and the company’s performance against those targets for the 2014/15 financial year are no longer considered 
commercially sensitive, details are set out below. The group delivered a strong financial result for the year, achieving record sales and profit, with revenue 
up 3.0%, notwithstanding underlying retail growth being lower than anticipated and operating profit before exceptional items up 3.8%. Profit before tax 
and exceptional items fell 0.8% to £168.5m although adjusted earnings per share were up 1.3%. Operating cash flows continued to be strong.
Performance measure Target range
Actual
performance
Percentage
of bonus
opportunity
awarded
PBTE £167.9m – £175.9m £168.5m 48%
Free cash flow £44.2m – £50.2m £55.7m 100%
Details of the performance against non-financial targets were disclosed last year. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Audited information continued
Long-term incentive plans
The LTIP awards granted on 4 August 2013 were based on a three year performance period ended 1 May 2016. The target ranges, calculated 
on a straight-line basis from 0% to 100%, are set out below.
Performance measure Performance target
Actual
performance
Threshold
vesting
of award
Maximum
percentage
of award
Actual
 percentage
of award
Core LTIP – earnings per share
1
62.3p – 68.5p 69.9p 0% 100% 100%
Growth LTIP – return on capital employed
2
8.85% – 9.55% 9.38% 0% 100% 76%
Notes:
1.  The earnings per share target was adjusted to take account of an increased number of disposals and the acquisition of Spirit which completed in June 2015. No adjustment was 
made in respect of anticipated synergies arising from the acquisition allowing management to benefit from those that have been delivered. The prior target range was 59.7p – 65.9p. 
The committee is satisfied that the adjustment was appropriate and that the revised target was a fairer measure of performance and was no more or less difficult to achieve than 
the previous range.
2.  The ROCE target was adjusted on the same basis as the earnings per share target. The prior range was 9.1% - 9.8%. The committee is satisfied that the adjustment was appropriate 
and that the revised target was a fairer measure of performance and was no more or less difficult to achieve than the previous range.
The award details for the executive directors are therefore as follows:
Director Type of award
Number
of shares
at grant
Number
of shares
to vest
Number
of shares
to lapse
Estimated
value 
1
£'000
Estimated
value of
dividend
equivalent
shares
to vest 
2
£'000
Total
estimated
value
£'000
Rooney Anand Core LTIP 68,630 68,630 — 594 65 659 
Rooney Anand Growth LTIP 68,630 52,159 16,471 452 61 513
Notes:
1. The estimated value of the shares is based on the average share price during the three months to 1 May 2016 (866 p). 
2.  The LTIP enables award holders to benefit from the payment of dividend equivalents but only to the extent that the underlying share awards vest. The estimated value has been 
calculated on the same basis as set out in note 1 above, with an additional estimate for the value of the dividend equivalent shares which will be due in relation to the 2016 final 
dividend payable in September 2016.
Interests under the LTIP
A summary of the current directors’ interests under the LTIP at the beginning and end of the year, and changes during the year, is below:
Date of grant Type of award
Exercise
price
Outstanding
as at
3 May 2015
Granted during
the period
Vested during
the period
Lapsed during
the period 
1
Outstanding
at 1 May 2016 Performance period
Rooney Anand 6-Aug-12 Restricted
forfeitable share
nil 117,000 — 117,000 — — —
4-Oct-13 Core LTIP nil 68,630 — — — 68,630 May 2013 – May 2016
4-Oct-13 Growth LTIP nil 68,630 — — — 68,630 May 2013 – May 2016
24-Jul-14 Core LTIP nil 66,361 — — — 66,361 May 2014 – May 2017
24-Jul-14 Growth LTIP nil 66,361 — — — 66,361 May 2014 – May 2017
10-Aug-15 Core LTIP nil — 66,558 — — 66,558 May 2015 – May 2018
10-Aug-15 Growth LTIP nil — 66,558 — — 66,558 May 2015 – May 2018
Kirk Davis 10-Aug-15 Core LTIP nil — 38,437 — — 38,437 May 2015 – May 2018
10-Aug-15 Growth LTIP nil — 38,437 — — 38,437 May 2015 – May 2018
The 2014 LTIP award targets have been adjusted to take into account the impact of the Spirit acquisition. The EPS target applicable to the core LTIP 
was increased by the forecast net benefit to earnings that Spirit was forecast to generate and the ROCE target applicable to the growth LTIP was adjusted 
to reflect the expected impact of Spirit on returns. No adjustment was made in respect of delivering the potential future synergies to enable management 
to benefit should these be delivered as planned. Under the revised targets there will be no vesting of the core award for EPS growth of 26.2% or less 
above a base of 56.1p, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of 35.3% during the performance period above that base. The prior 
target range was 22–31% above the 56.1p base. For the growth LTIP award, there will be no vesting for ROCE of 9.25% or less, increasing on a straight-line 
basis to full vesting for ROCE of 9.85% at the end of the performance period. The prior target range was 9.4–10.0%.
The 2015 LTIP award targets have also been adjusted to take into account the impact of the Spirit acquisition and in the light of feedback received from 
a number of shareholders following the publication of the 2015 annual report regarding the level of stretch in the targets. Under the revised targets there 
will be no vesting of the core award for EPS growth of 22% or less above a base of 61.0p, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of 
32% during the performance period above that base. The prior target range was 7.5–16.5% above the 61.0p base. For the growth LTIP award, there will 
be no vesting for ROCE of 9.6% or less, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for ROCE of 10.2% at the end of the performance period. 
The prior target range was 9.2–9.7%.
Remuneration report continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 63
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of the awards granted to the directors on 10 August 2015 are as follows:
Director Scheme Type of award
Basis of
award granted
Share price
used for award
purposes 
1
 Number of
shares over
which award
was granted 
Face value
of award Performance period Exercisable between
Rooney Anand Core LTIP nil-cost option 100% of salary
of £567,970
853.33p 66,558 £567,959 May 2015 –
May 2018
11 August 2018 – 
9 August 2025
Rooney Anand Growth LTIP nil-cost option 100% of salary
of £567,970
853.33p 66,558 £567,959 May 2015 –
May 2018
11 August 2018 – 
9 August 2025
Kirk Davis Core LTIP nil-cost option 100% of salary
of £328,000
853.33p 38,437 £327,994 May 2015 –
May 2018
11 August 2018 – 
9 August 2025
Kirk Davis Growth LTIP nil-cost option 100% of salary
of £328,000
853.33p 38,437 £327,994 May 2015 –
May 2018
11 August 2018 – 
9 August 2025
Note:
1. The share price used for award purposes was determined by reference to the average closing share price on the three days immediately prior to the date of the award.
Interests under the executive share option scheme
There are no outstanding interests under the group’s executive share option scheme (under which no awards have been made since September 2008). 
In the prior year the gain made by Rooney Anand on the exercise of his 74,751 share options amounted to £235k.
Interests under the sharesave scheme
The interests of the directors in options granted under the sharesave scheme were as follows:
Outstanding
as at
4 May 2015
Granted
during
the period
Exercised
during
the period
Lapsed during
the period
Outstanding
as at
1 May 2016
Option price
(p) Exercise period
Kirk Davis 3050 — — — 3050 580 1 April – 30 Sept 2018
In the prior year, the gain made by Matthew Fearn on the exercise of his 2,325 share options amounted to £8k.
Payments to former directors
As disclosed in last year’s directors’ remuneration report Matthew Fearn stepped down from the board and his role as chief financial officer on 
29 September 2014. As disclosed last year, he will remain an employee of the company until 24 August 2016 (“date of cessation”). During that time 
he will not be entitled to any remuneration other than as set out below and will not be required to perform any work for the company. 
In accordance with the company’s remuneration policy, an amount equal to £234,802 was paid in the prior year to Matthew Fearn based on 6 months’ 
salary, the value of his company car and the anticipated cost of private medical cover until his date of cessation. The company also maintained 
Matthew’s private medical insurance cover until he was able to procure alternative cover on comparable terms at his own cost.
Life assurance cover will be provided until the date of cessation and any permanent health insurance payments will not be paid until after the date 
of cessation. The company also agreed in the prior year to pay £15,650 plus VAT towards the costs of Matthew’s legal fees incurred in connection 
with the agreement.
No payments in respect of annual bonus for the 2014/15, 2015/16 or any future financial years was or will be paid. 
As set out in last year’s report, the awards granted to Matthew Fearn under the LTIP scheme in 2012 vested at the normal date in August 2015 subject 
to performance and time pro-rating. The actual value received by him, based on the share price at the date of vesting, is shown in the 2014/15 section 
of single figure of remuneration table (updated from the estimated amount disclosed last year). In addition, also as disclosed last year, the awards granted 
to him in 2013 will be permitted to vest at the normal date in October 2016, also subject to performance and time pro-rating. The anticipated value 
of those awards, calculated on the same basis as set out above in the section headed ‘Long term incentive plans’ is as follows:
Former director Type of award
Number
of shares
at grant
Number
of shares
to vest
Number
of shares
to lapse 
1
 
Estimated
value
£'000
Estimated
value of
dividend
equivalent
shares
to vest
£'000
Total
estimated
value
£'000
Matthew Fearn Core LTIP 43,290 20,894 22,396 181 13 194 
Matthew Fearn Growth LTIP 43,290 15,880 27,410 138 10 148
Note:
1.  Matthew Fearn’s core and growth LTIP awards were both pro rated to reflect time served prior to his departure from the company. The resulting amounts will then vest 
as to 100% for the core LTIP and 76% for the growth LTIP as a result of the performance of the company against the performance targets.  GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 64
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Audited information continued
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Under the shareholding guidelines executive directors are required to build and retain a shareholding of at least 100% of salary and must retain 50% 
of the net exercised value of vested LTIP awards until the requirement is met. 
Details of the directors’ shareholdings are set out in the table below.
At 3 May 2015 At 1 May 2016
Director Legally owned Legally owned
Subject to
performance
under the LTIP Total
Shareholding
as percentage
of salary as at
1 May 2016
Rooney Anand 467,265  529,041  403,098  932,139 671
Kirk Davis — 4,000  76,874  80,874 9
Tim Bridge 1,438,531  1,526,432 — 1,526,432 —
Mike Coupe 2,000  3,690 — 3,690 —
Ian Durant 22,320  22,320 — 22,320 —
Rob Rowley — 3,000 — 3,000 —
Lynne Weedall 2,000  2,051 — 2,051 —
Philip Yea — 30,000 — 30,000 —
At 1 May 2016, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 87,900 (2015: 87,900) shares, in addition to the holding shown above. 
The share price as at 1 May 2016 was 818p.
There has been no change in the interests of the current directors since 1 May 2016 to the date of this report.
Other information (unaudited)
Performance graph and chief executive pay 
A graph showing the total shareholder return of Greene King relative to the FTSE All-Share Index over the last seven years in shown below. We have 
chosen this comparator group as it is the most appropriate market index of which the company is a member.
May 2015 May 2016
Greene King plc FTSE All-Share
May 2009 April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 May 2014
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
TSR (rebased to 100)
The table below shows the total remuneration for the chief executive over each of the last seven years.
2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16
CEO single figure (£'000) 1,096 1,406  1,248  2,689  2,517 2,139 2,547
annual bonus percentage of maximum 97% 100% 75% 72% 97% 60% 97.5%
LTIP percentage of maximum 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% 88%
Remuneration report continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 65
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Percentage increase in the chief executive’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the chief executive’s remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change 
in remuneration for all four-weekly paid employees (which include pub and restaurant managers but exclude colleagues working for them in those pubs 
and restaurants), who have been selected as the comparator as they participate in similar remuneration arrangements to the executive directors.
Chief executive
% change
Employees
% change
Salary 9.9 6.7
Taxable benefits -9.7 4.8
Annual bonus 78.7 44.8
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends and group revenue.
2,500
2,000
500
1,000
1,500
0
Revenue Wages and 
salaries before 
exceptionals
Dividends and 
share buy-backs
 2016
 2015
£m
Remuneration from other company directorships
Rooney Anand is non-executive chairman of JB Drinks Holdings Limited and received and retained £56k (2015 – £45k) from that company by way of fees. 
Since January 2016 he has also been a non-executive director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and received and retained £12.5k from that company 
by way of fees during the year. Neither company is a related party of the group.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016/17
Salary
Although the executive directors’ salaries are generally reviewed annually, as explained above their salaries were increased in October 2015 following the 
acquisition of Spirit. As a result, there will be no further change to the base salaries of the executive directors for the current financial year. Their salaries 
with effect from 2 May 2016 (and previous year levels) are as follows:
Name Position
From
2 May
2016
Percentage
increase
From
19 October
2015
Percentage
increase 
From
4 May
2015
Rooney Anand Chief executive £645,000 0.0% £645,000 13.6% £567,970
Kirk Davis Chief financial officer £351,000 0.0% £351,000 7.0% £328,000
Typical pay rises for the group’s four-weekly paid employees (which include pub and restaurant managers but exclude colleagues working for them 
in those pubs and restaurants) were 2.0%.
Pension and benefits 
The pension contributions and benefits will continue in line with the policy table on page 56.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus opportunity will remain unchanged for 2016/17. The chief executive’s financial performance targets will continue to be based primarily 
on group PBTE (maximum weighting 62.5%) and free cash flow (maximum weighting 15%). In addition the chief executive will continue to have a financial 
target relating to the achievement of synergies from the acquisition of Spirit (maximum weighting 12.5%) and a further 10% of his bonus will be based 
on personal targets relating to the development of his senior management team. 
The chief financial officer’s financial performance targets will be based on PBTE (maximum weighting 45%), free cash flow (maximum weighting 10%), 
the achievement of synergies from the acquisition of Spirit (maximum weighting 10%) and Pub Company like for like sales growth (maximum weighting 
15%), and a further 20% of his bonus will be based on personal targets which relate to his performance and that of the senior finance team. 
The committee has decided that the bonus targets should not be disclosed prospectively due to commercial sensitivity. The committee expects to publish 
the performance targets once they have ceased to be commercially sensitive, in the 2017/18 annual report. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 66
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Other information (unaudited) continued
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016/17 continued
LTIP
The awards to be made in 2016 will continue to be based on 200% of the executive director’s base salary (100% for the core LTIP and 100% 
for the growth LTIP), calculated by reference to the average closing prices on the three business days immediately prior to the date of the award. 
The awards will vest three years after the date of the award, subject to continued employment within the group and dependent on performance over 
the three financial years to April 2019. There will be no vesting under the core LTIP award for EPS growth (from a base of 69.9p) of 16% or less, increasing 
on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of 25%. For the growth LTIP award, there will be no vesting for ROCE of 9.75% or less, increasing on 
a straight-line basis to full vesting for ROCE of 10.3%. The committee retains the discretion to scale back the vesting levels of the growth LTIP awards 
in appropriate circumstances. 
Chairman and non-executive directors’ fees
The fees payable to the chairman and the non-executive directors in 2016/17 are as set out below. The chairman will not be entitled to any benefits.
Name Position
2015/16
base fee
2016/17
base fee
Percentage 
increase
Philip Yea Chairman n/a £250,000 —
Mike Coupe Non-executive director £46,000 £50,000 8.7%
Ian Durant Non-executive director £53,400 £60,000 12.4%
Rob Rowley Non-executive director £46,000 £60,000 30.4%
Lynne Weedall Non-executive director £53,400 £60,000 12.4%
The increased fee for Rob Rowley reflects the additional time commitments relating to his role as senior independent director.
Approved by the board on 28 June 2016.
Lindsay Keswick
Company secretary
Remuneration report continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 67
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The directors present their annual report together with the audited 
financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks 
ended 1 May 2016. The company has chosen, in accordance with section 
414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006, to include matters of strategic 
importance, such as future developments in the business of the group, and 
details of the greenhouse gas emissions, in the strategic report which 
otherwise would be required to be disclosed in the director’s report.
Profits and dividends
The group’s profit before taxation and exceptional items for the period 
amounted to £256.5 million (2015 – £168.5 million). An interim dividend 
of 8.45p per share (2015 – 7.95p) was paid on 22 January 2016. The directors 
recommend a final dividend of 23.6p per ordinary share (2015 – 21.8p), 
making a total dividend for the year of 32.05 per share (2015 – 29.75p). 
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend 
will be paid on 12 September 2016 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 12 August 2016.
Directors
Details of the current directors are given on page 46. Philip Yea was 
appointed to the board on 2 February 2016. At the end of the year 
Tim Bridge retired as chairman, having served as a director for 39 years.
The board has recommended that all of the directors offer themselves 
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Philip Yea 
who will be standing for election for the first time. 
Details of the directors’ service agreements, remuneration, and interests in 
long term incentives and awards are set out in the directors’ remuneration report.
Directors’ interests in shares
The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate 
families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: 
3 May 2015 1 May 2016
Rooney Anand 467,265 529,041
Tim Bridge 1,438,531 1,526,432
Mike Coupe 2,000 3,690
Kirk Davis — 4,000
Ian Durant 22,320 22,320
Rob Rowley — 3,000
Lynne Weedall 2,000 2,051
Philip Yea — 30,000
At 1 May 2016, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 87,900 
(2015: 87,900) shares, in addition to the holding shown above. 
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors 
between 1 May 2016 and the date of this report.
Interests in contracts
No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an 
employment contract, that was significant in relation to the group’s 
business at any time during the period. 
Substantial shareholdings
The company has been notified of the following significant holdings 
(3% or more) of voting rights:
1 May 2016 28 June 2016
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited 4.774% 4.774%
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 16.28% 16.28%
Share capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which 
comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12½p, are set out in 
note 27 to the financial statements. The rights attaching to the shares are 
set out in the articles of association. There are no special control rights in 
relation to the company’s shares and the company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
In connection with the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company the consideration 
was satisfied by the allotment of 89,095,959 ordinary shares, with an 
aggregate nominal value of £11,136,995.
A total of 371,620 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 
£46,453 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with the 
company’s share save and executive option schemes.
The company makes regular use of the employee benefit trust (EBT) to 
satisfy the exercise of share options and will make market purchases of 
the company’s shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient 
shares to enable it to do so. 
Purchase of own shares
In accordance with the company’s articles of association, authority was 
sought at the last AGM to purchase up to 10% of the company’s shares in 
issue as at 27 July 2015. The authority, which has not been exercised, was 
approved and remains exercisable until the next annual general meeting 
or 8 February 2017, whichever is earlier. The directors have again sought 
approval for the authority to purchase the company’s own shares.
Voting rights
In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member 
who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote. On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall 
have one vote for every share of which they are the holder. The AGM 
notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect 
of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares held 
by the company.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other 
than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws 
and regulations (for example under the Market Abuse Directive). 
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial 
responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to 
deal in the company’s securities, and are prohibited from dealing during 
close periods.
Change of control
All of the company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating 
to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the 
directors’ remuneration report. Outstanding options and awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject 
to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
The group’s banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the 
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a 
change of control. Certain of the company’s trading contracts also contain 
similar provisions.
There is one employee who, on a change of control of the company 
resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled to 
compensation for loss of office. However, in the context of the company 
as a whole, this agreement is de minimis.
Articles of association
The company’s articles of association may only be amended by special 
resolution at general meetings of shareholders. 
Appointment and replacement of directors
The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five nor more 
than twelve. Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary 
resolution or by the board of directors. A director appointed by the 
board of directors holds office until the next following AGM, and is then 
eligible for election by the shareholders.
Directors’ report and disclosures GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 68
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Appointment and replacement of directors continued
The articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who were elected, 
or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the 
current year shall retire from office and may stand for re-election. In practice 
directors submit themselves for annual re-election in accordance with 
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has 
been given, remove any director from office.
Any director automatically ceases to be a director if (i) they give the company 
a written notice of resignation, (ii) they give the company a written offer 
to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, (iii) all of the other 
directors remove them from office by notice in writing served upon them, 
(iv) they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court 
order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made in respect 
of them, (v) a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any 
arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, (vi) they are 
prohibited from being a director by law or (vii) they are absent from 
board meetings for six months without leave and the other directors 
resolve that their office should be vacated.
Powers of the directors
The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise 
all the powers of the company, subject to its articles of association, any 
relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing 
a special resolution at a general meeting. In particular, the directors may 
exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, 
appoint and remove directors, and recommend and declare dividends.
Communications with shareholders
Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications 
should refer to the shareholders information page for further information 
on how to register via www.greeneking-shares.com.
Charitable donations
The group continues to support community initiatives and charitable 
causes, in particular Macmillan Cancer Support, full details of which are 
given in the corporate social responsibility section of this annual report. 
The group makes no political donations.
Employment and recruitment policies
It is the company’s policy to ensure that employees are recruited, selected, 
developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their skills and 
suitability for the work performed. The company is committed to treating 
all employees fairly and equally and will endeavour to provide workplace 
adaptations and training for employees or candidates who have a disability 
and colleagues who become disabled during their employment.
The company values employee engagement across the business and 
produces a monthly publication that is circulated to all employees 
containing company news and articles, which is circulated to all employees. 
In addition, the company provides regular briefings and presentations to 
staff on the company’s performance and strategy as well as annual and 
interim results. The company operates an HMRC approved sharesave 
scheme open to all employees which helps to align employees with the 
performance of the company.
We are a people business so it is vitally important that we recruit and 
train the right people to deliver value, service and quality to our customers. 
The company works in partnership with local communities to promote 
and provide opportunities for all.
Human rights
Even though the company does not have a formal human rights policy, 
it is committed to conducting business with integrity and fairness.
Corporate responsibility
Disclosure of the group’s greenhouse gas emissions is contained within 
the corporate responsibility statement on page 43.
Directors’ and officers’ indemnity insurance
The group has taken out insurance to indemnify the directors of the company 
against third party proceedings whilst serving on the board of the company 
and of any subsidiary. This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who 
serve on the boards of all subsidiaries. These indemnity policies subsisted 
throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Financial instruments
The group’s policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 24 
to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events
Details of events occurring after the year-end are set out in note 33 
to the financial statements.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information 
to the auditor
The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving 
the directors’ report are listed on page 46. Having made enquiries of fellow 
directors and of the company’s auditor, each of these directors confirms that:
 – to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the 
company’s auditor is unaware; and
 – each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be 
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and 
to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position, are set out in the 
chief executive’s review. The financial position of the group, its cash-flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial 
review. In addition, note 24 to the financial statements includes the group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk. 
The directors are of the opinion that the group’s forecast and projections, 
which take account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
and its stress testing to take account of expected payments in respect of 
uncertain tax positions show that the group should be able to operate within 
its current borrowing facilities and comply with its financing covenants. 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 
and a resolution to re-appoint the firm as the company’s auditor will 
be proposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting 
The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Friday 9 September 2016 at the 
Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, 
Newmarket, Suffolk. The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate 
circular to shareholders. 
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of 
AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a 
whole. The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously 
recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board
Lindsay Keswick
Company secretary
28 June 2016
Directors’ report and disclosures continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 69
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the financial statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare 
the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union, and the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”). Under company law the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group 
and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 – in respect of the group financial statements, state whether IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the group’s financial position and financial performance;
 – in respect of the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the company and/or the group 
will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s and group’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to 
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the directors are also responsible 
for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, directors’ remuneration 
report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law 
and those regulations. The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge:
 – that the consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company 
and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
 – that the annual report, including the strategic report, includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and
 – having taken into account all matters considered by the board and brought 
to the attention of the board during the year, the directors consider that 
the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable. 
The directors believe that the disclosures set out in this annual report 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The directors of Greene King plc are listed on page 46.
P Yea  R Anand
Director  Director
28 June 2016
Directors’ responsibilities statements FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
71 Independent auditor’s report
77 Group income statement
78 Group statement of comprehensive income 
79 Group balance sheet
80 Group cash flow statement 
81 Group statement of changes in equity
82 Notes to the accounts 
117 Company balance sheet
118 Company statement of changes in equity
119 Notes to the company accounts
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Greene King plc
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 1 May 2016 and of the group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union; 
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and 
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the primary statements and related notes of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2016 which comprise:
Group Parent company
Group income statement Company balance sheet
Group statement of comprehensive income Company statement of changes in equity
Group balance sheet Related notes 35 to 45 to the financial statements
Group cash flow statement
Group statement of changes in equity
Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality – Overall group materiality was £12.4m (2015: £7.8m) which represents approximately 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional 
items. The increase in the materiality is primarily due to the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc (Spirit) during the year.
Audit scope – We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre 
which together represent 100% of the group’s results for the year.
 – We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing 
risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Risks of material 
misstatement
 – Fair value estimates of assets and liabilities acquired in the Spirit business combination.
 – Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill.
 – Uncertain tax positions.
 – Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override.
What has changed – Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the 
Greene King plc business and impacting the group financial statements. Since the 2015 audit we have made the following 
changes to our areas of focus:
 – On 23 June 2015, the group completed the acquisition of Spirit. As part of the acquisition accounting, accounting standards 
require the purchase price to be allocated between the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, resulting in the recognition 
of goodwill. We have identified as an additional risk for this year the fair valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 – We no longer consider the funding headroom and compliance with debt covenants as a risk of material misstatement 
on the basis of the increased level of headroom over prior years, even after the acquisition of Spirit.
 – The risk relating to uncertain tax positions has been reduced relative to the prior year due to the agreement of the HMRC 
on many of the arrangements.
 – Our performance materiality was set to a lower threshold in 2016, largely due to the significant changes in the group 
through the acquisition of Spirit which increases the risks of material misstatement. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit. In addressing 
these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, 
we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these risks of material misstatements and our audit response are set out in the below table. This is not a complete list of all 
the procedures we performed in respect of these areas. The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated 
with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2015.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Fair value estimates of assets and liabilities acquired in the Spirit business combination
Refer to the audit committee report (page 53); accounting policies (page 82); and note 17 of the group financial 
statements (page 106)
Risk direction
New
During the period the group acquired Spirit for 
a total consideration of £763m. The acquisition 
is accounted for as a business combination 
in relation to which there are a number of 
significant and complex judgments involved in 
the determination of the fair value of the 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
A purchase price allocation exercise has been 
performed by management, assisted by external 
experts. The primary element of the valuation 
exercise assessed the fair value of the trading 
estate (£1,419m including assets held for sale) 
and the resulting goodwill (£434m). The allocation 
also considered the fair values of intangible 
assets (favourable operating leases and brands), 
borrowings, off market contract liabilities, 
derivative financial instruments, post-retirement 
obligations and scheme assets, other assets 
and liabilities and deferred tax.
We have identified the fair valuation of the 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed 
as a significant risk.
We verified the appropriateness of the group’s accounting 
for the acquisition of Spirit including the following procedures:
 – we challenged the group’s preliminary estimates of fair value 
to test their robustness, by checking completeness of the 
company’s process to identify the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed, and checking internal consistency of the assumptions 
used in the valuations, including of the brand intangible asset, 
off-market leases and onerous contract liabilities;
 – we obtained the group’s external expert’s reports supporting 
the value of the trading estate and brand intangible assets and 
used our firm’s valuation specialists to verify the appropriateness 
of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key 
assumptions and judgments made by the valuers;
 – we also involved our valuation specialists to assist the audit team 
in assessing the appropriateness of the methodology and the 
assumptions applied to value the off market leases and onerous 
contracts, and to independently recalculate the fair value of 
secured bonds and related interest rate swaps;
 – we checked the arithmetical accuracy of management’s 
calculation of the off market liabilities, tested the adequacy of the 
discount rates applied and agreed the future expected payments 
to the terms in the relevant contracts or other supporting 
evidence;
 – in respect of post retirement obligations, we involved 
our pensions specialists to test the reasonableness 
of the assumptions applied by the group’s actuaries;
 – we evaluated the competence and independence of 
the experts used by the group and our in-house experts 
by reference to their qualifications and experience; and
 – we evaluated whether appropriate disclosures have been 
included in the group financial statements.
As a result of the procedures 
performed we are satisfied that 
assets and liabilities acquired are 
measured at fair value in line 
with the requirements of the 
accounting standards. 
We also concluded that 
appropriate disclosures have 
been included in the group 
financial statements. 
Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill
Refer to the audit committee report (page 53); accounting policies (page 82); and note 14 of the group financial 
statements (page 100)
Risk direction 
↔
The group has property, plant and equipment 
(PP&E) with a net book value of £3,671m relating 
to its trading estate and £1,122m of goodwill 
as at 1 May 2016.
For the trading estate, impairments are 
considered on a site by site basis when an 
impairment indicator has been identified 
through reduced profit performance. For 
goodwill, impairment is assessed at an 
operating segment level (i.e. Pub Company 
Greene King, Pub Company Spirit, Pub 
Partners Greene King, Pub Partners Spirit 
and Brewing & Brands), being the lowest 
level at which goodwill is monitored.
We obtained an understanding of the group’s process employed 
to identify indicators of impairment and to estimate appropriate 
impairments of PP&E at a cash-generating unit (CGU) level 
(site level) or goodwill at an operating segment level. We then 
tested key elements of those processes. In particular:
 – we compared the profit growth rates in the cash flow 
forecasts to the budget, external market growth estimates 
rates applied by industry peers and recent actual profit growth 
rates over the last five year period, and corroborated 
explanations for any anomalies;
 – we tested the reasonableness of the discount rate applied to 
cash flows through benchmarking to comparator companies 
and market expectations; 
We considered the reasonableness 
and appropriateness of the group’s 
estimates, noting that all significant 
assumptions fell within a range 
of acceptable outcomes. 
As a result of the procedures 
performed, we concluded that 
the group’s impairment indicator 
analysis and impairment assessment 
for the group’s CGUs had been 
carried out appropriately and 
in accordance with the 
accounting standards. 
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Greene King plc Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 73
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill continued
In assessing impairment, management estimates 
the recoverable value of each site by reference 
to the higher of its value in use (based on the 
group’s key assumptions in relation to forecast 
profits, a growth rate and a discount rate) and 
fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD). As 
a result of the Spirit acquisition and the bond 
issue, current valuations were available upon 
which to base the FVLCD. The recoverable 
value is compared to the carrying value of 
each site to determine any impairment. For 
goodwill, the group performs its impairment 
analysis by considering the value in use of 
the operating segment, based on forecast 
cash flows for that segment, employing 
consistent assumptions.
These processes have a high degree of 
judgment and therefore carry a higher level of 
inherent risk of material error.
 – we reperformed the group’s sensitivities applied to the cash 
flows and considered the group’s judgment of how a reasonably 
possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment 
based upon our knowledge of the group’s activities and factors 
in the sector;
 – we obtained an understanding of the methodology 
management applied to allocate the new Spirit goodwill to the 
operating segments, as well as the methodology applied for 
allocating goodwill to disposals, to ensure that the approach 
taken is in line with the requirements of the applicable 
accounting standards; and
 – we checked the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the 
impairment models.
For the trading estate, additionally:
 – we checked on the impairment model that the site’s 
recoverable value is the higher of value in use and FVLCD;
 – where the FVLCD was required to support the recoverable 
value of a site, we evaluated the robustness and appropriateness 
of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key 
assumptions and judgments made by the experts, using our 
own property valuation specialists, who utilised their knowledge 
of property valuation and comparator transactions on a sample 
of the sites. We also evaluated the competence and independence 
of the experts used by the group and our in-house experts 
by reference to their qualifications and experience; 
 – where impairment indicators existed but no impairment 
charge had been recognised, we sought and corroborated 
explanations from management on individual pubs to assess 
whether an impairment charge was required; and
 – on a sample of sites where judgment has been applied 
to determine the recoverable value, we have obtained and 
corroborated explanations from management.
We evaluated the appropriateness, sufficiency and clarity of any 
impairment-related disclosures provided in the group financial 
statements, including the disclosure of key sensitivities. 
We concur with management’s 
assessment that goodwill for 
each reportable segment is not 
impaired and is recoverable. 
We concluded that the related 
disclosures in the group financial 
statements are appropriate.
Uncertain tax positions
Refer to the audit committee report (page 53); accounting policies (page 82); and note 10 of the group financial 
statements (page 96)
Risk direction 
↓
The group has implemented a number of 
intra-group arrangements to finance third 
party acquisitions and to effect other intra 
group transactions. Certain of the potential 
benefits from these arrangements were 
under dispute by the HMRC. 
Subsequent to the year end, a settlement 
agreement has been confirmed with the HMRC 
in respect of the majority of legacy tax items 
at £21.4m, similar to the liability recognised at 
the 2015 year end and of which £9m remains 
payable at the year end.
The uncertainty over resolution of the remaining 
arrangements (principally an arrangement 
known as ‘Project Sussex’) has required the 
directors to make judgments on the level of 
tax that will ultimately be paid. The directors 
obtained opinions from independent advisers to 
help them assess the level of tax liability required.
Estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions of 
£10.5m (2015: £31.6m) and related interest of 
£5.9m (2015: £13.9m) are included within Income 
tax payable and Trade and other payables 
respectively. This amount excludes the provision 
of £9m related to the legacy items as this is no 
longer considered an uncertain tax position 
on the basis of the agreement confirmed 
shortly after the year end.
We used our tax audit specialists to evaluate the group’s 
assessment of the liability recognised. Our work included:
 – agreeing the amount of the provision recognised (£21.4m) to 
the agreement reached with the HMRC through its 'High Risk 
Corporate Process' on a number of outstanding matters; 
 – with regard to Project Sussex, inspecting correspondence 
with HMRC and the advice received from the group’s advisers, 
and performing our own assessment of the likely outcome of 
litigation on the basis of our experience of similar scenarios; and
 – recalculating the accrual for the interest on late paid corporation 
tax if the group were to settle the Project Sussex liability at the 
amounts provided at the balance sheet date.
As a result of the procedures 
performed we have concluded 
that the provision for uncertain 
tax positions is within a range 
of probable outcomes of the 
final settlement. 
We consider the group’s level 
of disclosure in the financial 
statements is appropriate taking 
into account the FRC guidance 
on this area. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override
Refer to the audit committee report (page 53); accounting policies (page 82); and note 3 of the group financial 
statements (page 89)
Risk direction
↔
In accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) there is a presumed 
fraud risk relating to revenue recognition. 
We consider that there is a higher level of risk 
associated with the appropriate recognition 
of sales in the correct accounting period on 
beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands 
and Pub Partners divisions. This risk is associated 
with the accuracy and completeness of 
retrospective discounts and rebates due 
to the area being more susceptible 
to management override. 
For food, liquor and accommodation sales in 
the Pub Company division, we consider these 
are low risk given that the transactions are 
routine, low value and high volume with no 
estimation uncertainty. Accordingly, the fraud 
risk for such revenues is limited to journal 
entries and other adjustments made at 
the end of a reporting period.
We obtained an understanding of the processes for the recognition 
of revenue in each of the revenue streams, and separately for the 
recognition of retrospective discounts by the group as a whole.
For food, liquor and accommodation sales in the Pub Company 
division we have focused our testing on manual journals posted 
to this revenue stream. Furthermore we have utilised data 
analytics to agree revenue posted to cash received.
For beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands 
and Pub Partners divisions:
 – we performed detailed transaction testing by agreeing a 
sample of individual revenue items to sales invoices, evidence 
of delivery and subsequent cash receipt; 
 – we performed sales cut-off testing immediately before and 
after the year end by testing sales invoices to evidence of 
delivery to ensure that revenue had been recognised in the 
correct accounting period; additionally we have performed 
similar detailed testing on credit notes to confirm that the 
credit note has been recognised in the appropriate accounting 
period; and
 – we conducted specific analytical procedures on revenue and 
credit notes recognised either side of the year end to test 
management’s conclusion that the related revenue had been 
recognised in the correct accounting period.
For retrospective customer discounts and rebates:
 – we performed audit procedures on key customer contracts to 
identify complex rebate agreements and ensure that the treatment 
is appropriate in light of the revenue recognition policy;
 – we agreed the nature and terms of certain significant discount 
arrangements to contracts or other supporting documentation 
and tested a sample of rebates to the specified terms, subsequent 
invoice and if available settlement to ensure the amounts 
accrued were reasonable; and 
 – we analysed the volume of distributor sales in the period 
before and after the year end to ensure correct cut-off.
As a result of the procedures 
performed, we have been able 
to conclude that revenue has 
been recognised in accordance 
with the revenue recognition 
policy and accounting standards.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias 
by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The scope of our audit
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity 
within the group. Taken together this enables us to form an opinion on the group financial statements under International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business 
environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The group’s operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based in the head 
office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits. 
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together represent 
100% of the group’s results for the year. We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying 
and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming 
our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level (referred to as our ‘performance materiality’).
 
MATERIALITY
£12.4m
PERFORMANCE 
MATERIALITY
£6.2m
REPORTING 
THRESHOLD
£600k
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Greene King plc
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 75
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be £12.4m (2015: £7.8m), which is set at approximately 5% (2015: 5%) of pre-tax profit before exceptional items. 
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material 
misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures. Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
How we determined materiality 
Starting basis
Profit before tax £189.8m
Adjustment
Excluding exceptional items 
of £66.7m to determine 
the profit before tax and 
exceptional items of £256.5m
Materiality
£12.4m, being approximately 
5% of the profit before tax 
and exceptional items
Rationale for basis
We used pre-tax profit before exceptional items of £256.5m because it is a key performance indicator used in communications with investors, it is more 
reflective of underlying trading profitability and it is a key metric used by the group in the assessment of the performance of management. We also note 
that market and analyst commentary on the group uses pre-tax profit before exceptional items as a key metric. Therefore, in our view, we consider pre-tax 
profit before exceptional items to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered this to be 
the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the group’s overall control environment, the changes in the business environment 
resulting from the acquisition of Spirit, and the number and monetary amounts of individual uncorrected misstatements identified in prior periods as well 
as the nature of the misstatements, our judgment was that the overall performance materiality for the group should be 50% (2015: 75%) of our planning 
materiality, namely £6.2m (2015: £5.9m). We have set our performance materiality to a lower threshold in 2016, reflecting the significant changes in the 
group through the acquisition of Spirit which increases the risks of misstatement. Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total 
of any detected and undetected audit differences does not exceed our materiality of £12.4m for the group financial statements as a whole.
Audit work on individual components for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on 
a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the size of the component relative to 
the group as a whole and our assessment of risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated 
to components was £2.5m to £5.6m (2015: £2.3m to £5.3m).
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.6m (2015: £0.4m), which is set 
at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.  GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Greene King plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
 – the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
 – the information given in the Corporate governance statement in the annual report which starts on page 47 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report is: 
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
 – otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between 
our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement (included 
on page 69) that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters 
that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Companies Act 
2006 reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
 – the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 68, and longer-term viability, 
set out on pages 37; and
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Statement on the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the entity
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw 
attention to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 – the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or 
to draw attention to.
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Greene King plc website is the responsibility of the 
directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Bob Forsyth (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
28 June 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 77
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2016 2015
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items 
(note 5)
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items 
(note 5)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2,3 2,073.0 — 2,073.0 1,315.3 — 1,315.3 
Operating costs 4 (1,680.8) (25.9) (1,706.7) (1,059.1) (43.9) (1,103.0)
Operating profit 2,4 392.2 (25.9) 366.3 256.2 (43.9) 212.3 
Finance income 7 1.5 — 1.5 0.3 — 0.3 
Finance costs 7 (137.2) (40.8) (178.0) (88.0) (6.4) (94.4)
Profit before tax 256.5 (66.7) 189.8 168.5 (50.3) 118.2 
Tax 10 (49.4) 50.5 1.1 (35.3) 6.4 (28.9)
Profit attributable to equity holders of parent 207.1 (16.2) 190.9 133.2 (43.9) 89.3 
2016 2015
Note
Before
exceptional
items Total
Before
exceptional
items Total
Earnings per share
– basic 12 64.4p 40.9p
– adjusted basic 12 69.9p 61.0p
– diluted 12 64.1p 40.6p
– adjusted diluted 12 69.5p 60.6p
Dividends per share (paid and proposed in respect of the period) 11 32.05p 29.75p
Group income statement
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group statement of comprehensive income
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the period 190.9 89.3 
Other comprehensive loss to be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods:
Cash flow hedges: 
– Losses taken to equity 24 (40.1) (93.4)
– Transfers to income statement on cash flow hedges 24 27.6 29.7 
Tax on cash flow hedges 10 (2.5) 12.7 
(15.0) (51.0)
Items not to be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods:
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 9 (4.5) (11.9)
Tax on actuarial losses 10 (1.5) 2.4 
(6.0) (9.5)
Other comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax (21.0) (60.5)
Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 169.9 28.8  Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 79
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group balance sheet
as at 1 May 2016
Note
As at
1 May 2016
£m
As at
3 May 2015
£m
(see note 10)
As at
4 May 2014
£m
(see note 10)
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 3,671.3 2,235.4 2,169.7 
Intangibles 13 174.6 — — 
Goodwill 13 1,121.9 700.9 703.8 
Financial assets 15 16.8 21.3 24.2 
Deferred tax assets 10 78.7 28.3 13.3 
Prepayments 0.3 0.4 0.3 
Trade and other receivables 19 0.1 0.1 0.1 
5,063.7 2,986.4 2,911.4 
Current assets
Inventories 18 41.3 32.1 30.5 
Financial assets 15 9.8 9.1 8.6 
Trade and other receivables 19 82.7 58.9 60.2 
Prepayments 27.7 18.0 13.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 20 381.7 210.3 216.2 
543.2 328.4 328.8 
Property, plant and equipment held for sale 21 2.3 0.4 81.7 
545.5 328.8 410.5 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (210.3) (189.9) (202.0)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (41.2) (28.1) (9.4)
Trade and other payables 22 (424.0) (294.1) (256.5)
Off market contract liabilities 25 (22.4) — — 
Income tax payable 10 (30.3) (50.8) (46.5)
Provisions 26 (24.7) (0.5) (0.5)
(752.9) (563.4) (514.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (2,219.8) (1,389.1) (1,449.8)
Trade and other payables 22 (1.5) (1.0) — 
Off market contract liabilities 25 (277.5) — — 
Derivative financial instruments 24 (399.7) (208.8) (163.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (17.9) (57.4) (72.0)
Post-employment liabilities 9 (53.6) (60.5) (53.5)
Provisions 26 (12.7) (6.1) (6.0)
(2,982.7) (1,722.9) (1,744.3)
Total net assets 1,873.6 1,028.9 1,062.7 
Issued capital and reserves
Share capital 27 38.6 27.5 27.4 
Share premium 28 261.0 259.3 256.6 
Merger reserve 28 752.0 — — 
Capital redemption reserve 28 3.3 3.3 3.3 
Hedging reserve 28 (182.0) (167.0) (116.0)
Own shares 28 (0.2) (4.9) (6.3)
Retained earnings 1,000.9 910.7 897.7 
Total equity 1,873.6 1,028.9 1,062.7 
Net debt 30 2,048.4 1,368.7 1,435.6 
Signed on behalf of the board on 28 June 2016
P Yea  R Anand
Director  Director GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group cash flow statement
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Operating activities
Operating profit 366.3 212.3
Operating exceptional items 5 25.9 43.9
Depreciation 14 94.9 62.8
Amortisation 13 9.8 —
EBITDA
1
2 496.9 319.0
Working capital and other movements 29 (75.1) 4.6
Interest received 1.5 0.3
Interest paid (132.8) (86.0)
Tax paid (45.7) (40.6)
Net cash flow from operating activities 244.8 197.3
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (194.1) (160.5)
Advances of trade loans 15 (4.1) (5.5)
Repayment of trade loans 15 4.8 7.9
Sales of property, plant and equipment 82.6 94.0
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 17 104.3 —
Net cash flow from investing activities (6.5) (64.1)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid 11 (93.3) (62.8)
Issue of shares 1.7 2.8
Transaction costs for share issue (2.1) —
Purchase of own shares — (4.2)
Repayment of borrowings 30 (44.0) (61.1)
Advance of borrowings 30 65.0 —
Net cash flow from financing activities (72.7) (125.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 165.6 7.9
Opening cash and cash equivalents 20 210.3 202.4
Closing cash and cash equivalents 20 375.9 210.3
1. EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group statement of changes in equity
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
Note
Share
capital
(note 27)
£m
Share
premium
(note 28)
£m
Merger
reserve
(note 28)
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
(note 28)
£m
Hedging
reserve
(note 28)
£m
Own
shares
(note 28)
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 4 May 2014 27.4 256.6 — 3.3 (116.0) (6.3) 897.7 1,062.7
Profit for the period — — — — — — 89.3 89.3
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes (net of tax) — — — — — — (9.5) (9.5)
Net loss on cash flow hedges 
(net of tax) — — — — (51.0) — — (51.0)
Total comprehensive income — — — — (51.0) — 79.8 28.8
Issue of ordinary share capital 27 0.1 2.7 — — — — — 2.8
Release of shares 28 — — — — — 5.6 (5.6) —
Repurchase of shares 28 — — — — — (4.2) — (4.2)
Share-based payments 8 — — — — — — 3.1 3.1
Tax on share-based payments 10 — — — — — — (1.5) (1.5)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — — — — (62.8) (62.8)
At 3 May 2015 27.5 259.3 — 3.3 (167.0) (4.9) 910.7 1,028.9
Profit for the period — — — — — — 190.9 190.9
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes (net of tax) — — — — — — (6.0) (6.0)
Net loss on cash flow hedges 
(net of tax) — — — — (15.0) — — (15.0)
Total comprehensive income — — — — (15.0) — 184.9 169.9
Issue of ordinary share capital 27 11.1 1.7 752.0 — — — — 764.8
Transaction costs for share issue 17 — — — — — — (2.1) (2.1)
Release of shares 28 — — — — — 4.7 (4.7) —
Share-based payments 8 — — — — — — 6.2 6.2
Tax on share-based payments 10 — — — — — — (0.8) (0.8)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — — — — (93.3) (93.3)
At 1 May 2016 38.6 261.0 752.0 3.3 (182.0) (0.2) 1,000.9 1,873.6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies
Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2016 were authorised for issue by the board of directors 
on 28 June 2016. Greene King plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The company’s shares are listed 
on the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of compliance
The group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU as they 
apply to the financial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2016 (prior year 52 weeks ended 3 May 2015).
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. They are presented in pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Greene King plc, its subsidiaries and its related parties, Greene King Finance plc 
and Spirit Issuer plc. Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group. As Greene King plc 
has full control over both entities they are fully consolidated. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year end 
as the parent company with adjustments made to their financial statements to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the group.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. New standards and interpretations which came into force 
during the year did not have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Significant accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years, 
and short leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the shorter of the remaining term of the lease or useful life 
of the asset. There is no depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds, book value. Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over 
their estimated lives which range from three to 20 years.
Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed for all categories of property, plant and equipment and adjusted, if appropriate, 
at each financial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Profit or loss 
on derecognition is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is included in the income 
statement in the year of derecognition.
Intangible assets
Operating lease intangibles
The fair value attached to operating leasehold interests on acquisition are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets. 
The operating lease intangible is amortised over the period of the lease.
Brand intangibles
Brand intangible assets recognised on acquisition are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (15 years).
Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of 
non-controlling interests, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, is determined on a transaction 
by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are taken to the income statement.
When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded 
derivatives in host contracts of the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred to the vendor is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration which are deemed to be an asset or a liability is recognised in the income statement. If the contingent consideration 
is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for the non-controlling interest over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in exchange for the business 
combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships 
or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable 
IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent 
liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest is lower 
than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the 
difference is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Notes to the accounts
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 83
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment
Property, plant and equipment
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash inflows independent of the 
cash inflows of other groups of assets.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication of impairment. If an indication exists, the group makes an estimate of 
the recoverable amount of each asset group. An asset’s or cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal 
and value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets. If there is an indication that any previously 
recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made only if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its 
recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. 
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Details of the impairment losses recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment are provided in note 14.
Goodwill
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the group’s cash-generating 
units (or groups of cash-generating units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree 
are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes and cannot be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Impairment is determined by the recoverable amount of an operating segment. Where this is less than the carrying value of the operating segment 
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. This loss cannot be reversed in future periods.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, any goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in 
this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Goodwill amortised prior to the conversion to IFRS on 3 May 2004 has not been reinstated and the net book value of goodwill at that date has been 
carried forward as the carrying value. Prior to May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves. Such goodwill has not been reinstated and is not included 
in determining profit or loss on disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are derecognised when the 
group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows attributable to the 
instrument are passed to an independent third party. 
Financial assets
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or 
available-for-sale financial assets. The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate, re-evaluates 
this designation at each financial year end.
The group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the group’s beer. Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active market and 
have therefore been designated as ‘Loans and receivables’, carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised 
in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any individual trade loan is impaired. If there is evidence that an impairment loss has been 
incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the loan’s carrying amount and the expected future receipts (excluding future credit 
losses that have not been incurred), discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised in operating profit.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full 
amount is no longer considered probable.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Raw materials are valued at average cost. Finished goods and work in progress 
comprise materials, labour and attributable production overheads where applicable, and are valued at average cost.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale
Property, plant and equipment is classified as held for sale only if it is available for sale in its current condition, management is committed to the sale and 
a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Property, plant and equipment classified as held 
for sale is measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal and is no longer depreciated or amortised.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
Finance costs and income
Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using the effective interest method. Finance income is recognised in the income statement using 
the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement is at fair 
value and the movement is recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting is adopted. For interest rate swaps where hedge accounting is 
not applied the fair value movement is analysed between pre-exceptional finance costs and exceptional finance costs. Pre-exceptional finance costs includes 
cash payments or receipts on the interest rate swaps so as to show the underlying fixed rate on the debt with the remaining fair value movement 
(which is generally the movement in the carrying value of the swap in the period) reflected as an exceptional item. For derivatives acquired at a non-zero 
fair value (e.g. on acquisition) the amortisation of the initial fair value is recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs to offset the cash payments or receipts.
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include the group’s risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged. The group also documents 
how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether it has been, and is likely to 
continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classified as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability), or cash flow (hedging the variability in cash 
flows attributable to an asset, liability or forecast transaction). The group uses certain of its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
Cash flow hedge accounting
The effective portion of the gain or loss on an interest rate swap is recognised in Other comprehensive income (OCI), whilst any ineffective portion 
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in the OCI are transferred to the income statement in the same period that the financial income or expense is recognised, unless 
the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability whereby the amounts are transferred to the initial carrying amount 
of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, amounts previously recognised 
in OCI are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects the income statement. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss recognised in OCI is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Provisions are discounted to present value, where the effect of the time value of money is material, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market estimates of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Off market contract liabilities
Off market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition. For leases 
where the current rentals are below market terms, the related asset is considered to be included within the residual value of the leasehold pub. For 
other acquired pubs an off market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the present 
value of future market rate rentals. The liability unwinds against the rental expense so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms.
The off market contract liability is increased by the unwinding of the discount at acquisition (using the effective rate applied in measuring the off market 
contract liabilities at the date of acquisition) and decreased by utilisation which is unwound against rental expense in the income statement so that the 
income statement charge reflects current market terms.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Defined benefit pension schemes
The group operates three defined benefit pension schemes which require contributions to be made into separately administered funds. The cost of providing 
benefits under the schemes is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method on an annual basis. The current service 
cost is charged to operating profit. Any remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in full in the group statement of comprehensive income in the 
period in which they occur.
When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and related scheme assets are remeasured and the resulting gain or loss is recognised 
in the income statement in the same period.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability/(asset) by the discount rate both 
as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit liability/(asset) during the period 
as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
The defined benefit asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the present value of the schemes’ obligations less the fair value 
of scheme assets. Defined benefit assets are restricted to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
Defined contribution pension schemes
The cost of the group’s defined contribution pension schemes amounts to the value of contributions made. Contributions are charged to the income 
statement as they become payable. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares. The fair value 
of the shares and options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted. No account is taken in the fair value 
calculation of any vesting conditions (service and performance), other than market conditions (performance linked to the price of the shares of the company). 
Any other conditions that are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered non-vesting conditions. 
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value. The fair value of shares and 
options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the vesting conditions 
are fulfilled ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest. The periodic charge or credit is the movement 
in the cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions have not been met. 
Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting 
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee benefit trust. The group has an employee benefit trust for the granting 
of shares to applicable employees. 
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also 
recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised 
in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Revenue
Generally, revenue represents external sales (excluding taxes) of goods and services, net of discounts. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, 
and other sales taxes or duty relating to brewing and packaging of certain products. Revenue principally consists of drink, food and accommodation 
sales, which are recognised at the point at which goods or services are provided, and rental income, which is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term and machine income, where net takings are recognised as earned. The accrued value for rebates payable is included within other payables.
Supplier rebates
Supplier rebates are included within operating profit as they are earned. The accrued value at the reporting date is included within other receivables.
Operating leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases. Lease payments are recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease premiums paid on entering into or acquiring operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and are held on the balance sheet as current 
(the portion relating to the next financial period) or non-current prepayments. These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible 
assets. These operating leases are capitalised at cost and amortised over the period of the lease.
See ‘Off market contract liabilities’ for the accounting policy where the fair values of operating leases are a liability.
Finance leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. 
Finance leases are recognised at acquisition at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
The asset is then depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. A corresponding liability is included in the 
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve 
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being 
the difference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Taxes
Income tax
The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on profits for the year and the deferred income tax. It is calculated using taxation rates 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Income tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided for using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying values in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences except where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or 
loss or, in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax losses can be utilised. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
Taxes continued
Deferred tax continued
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance 
sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured, on an undiscounted basis, at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities 
and they relate to the same taxable entity and same tax authority and when it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively.
Uncertain tax positions
Provision for uncertain tax positions is based on an assessment of the tax treatment of certain transactions. Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is 
probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise. The group reviews its uncertain tax positions 
each period in order to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Exceptional items
The group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the income statement. Exceptional items are 
classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size, nature or expected frequency, to allow a better understanding of the underlying 
performance in the period.
New standards and interpretations not applied
As at the date of approval of the financial statements there are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective 
date after the date of these financial statements and which have not been early adopted by the group. These are expected to be applied as follows:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was first issued in November 2009 and has since been amended several times. A complete version of the standard was 
issued in July 2014 and is a replacement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 covers the classification, measurement 
and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, together with a new hedge accounting model and the new expected credit loss model for 
calculating impairment. The new standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to EU adoption. The 
group is currently considering the impact of IFRS 9 on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in May 2014. The new standard provides a single, five-step revenue recognition 
model, applicable to all sales contracts, which is based upon the principle that revenue is recognised when the control of goods or services is transferred 
to the customer. This standard replaces all existing revenue recognition guidance under current IFRS and becomes effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2018. The group is currently considering the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 16 Leases
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases which requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for most leases. For lessors, there is little change 
to the existing accounting in IAS 17 Leases. The new standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early application 
is permitted, provided the new standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, has been applied, or is applied at the same date as IFRS 16. 
The group is currently considering the impact of adopting IFRS 16 on its consolidated results and financial position.
Other standards and interpretations that are relevant to the group have been assessed as having no significant financial impact or additional disclosure 
requirements at this time.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies  
that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The group bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and 
other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and judgments considered to be significant are detailed below.
Taxation
Judgment is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal 
resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Assumptions are also made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances and the level of 
disallowable expenses and this affects the income tax calculation. Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on both 
deferred and current tax. Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is possible 
that a liability will arise. The final resolution of these transactions may give rise to material adjustments to the income statement and/or cash flow in 
future periods. The group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit each period to assess the appropriate accounting treatment. Refer to note 10 
for further details. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting judgments and estimates continued
Share-based payments
Judgment is required when calculating the fair value of awards made under the group’s share-based payment plans. Note 8 describes the key 
assumptions and valuation model inputs used in the determination of these values. In addition estimates are made of the number of awards that will 
ultimately vest and judgment is required in relation to the probability of meeting non-market-based performance conditions and the continuing 
participation of employees in the plans.
Pension liabilities 
The present values of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions which are disclosed in 
note 9. Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities. Note 9 describes the key assumptions used in the 
accounting for retirement benefit obligations.
Impairment of goodwill
The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown in note 
13. This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Value-in-use calculations require 
assumptions to be made regarding the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to 
calculate the present value of those cash flows. If the actual cash flows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The group determines whether property, plant and equipment is impaired where there are indicators of impairment. This requires an estimation of the 
value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal at an individual pub level. Value-in-use calculations require assumptions to be made regarding the expected 
future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
Note 14 describes the assumptions used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes 
in key assumptions.
Residual values
Residual values of property are determined with reference to current market property trends. If residual values were lower than estimated, an impairment 
of asset value and reassessment of future depreciation charge may be required. Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or 
reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Property provisions
The group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties where rental expense 
is in excess of income. The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the experience of internal and external property experts. 
However, changes to the expected method of exiting from the obligation could lead to changes in the level of provision recorded. See note 26 for details.
Business combinations
For the business combination the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been valued at fair value. This requires a number of estimates with the 
details on the fair valuation being disclosed in note 17. Additionally, the goodwill acquired in the business combination was allocated to the operating 
segments of the group, based on the extent that the benefits of acquisitions flow to those segments (see note 13 for allocation). 
2 Segment information
Following the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015 the group had five reportable segments that are largely organised and managed separately 
according to the nature of products and services provided, distribution channels and profile of customers. The segments include the following businesses:
Pub Company: Managed pubs and restaurants (Greene King and Spirit)
Pub Partners: Tenanted and leased pubs (Greene King and Spirit)
Brewing & Brands: Brewing, marketing and selling beer
These are also considered to be the group’s operating segments and are based on the information presented to the chief executive who is considered 
to be the chief operating decision maker. No aggregation of operating segments has been made.
Following the back-office integration of the Greene King and Spirit businesses from the start of the next financial year, the group has reverted to three 
reportable segments: Pub Company, Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands.
Segmental information presented in respect of the prior year is for the three Greene King reportable segments. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
2 Segment information continued
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis.
2016
Pub
Company
£m
Pub
Partners
£m
Brewing &
Brands
£m
Corporate
£m
 Total
operations
£m
External revenue
Greene King 1,051.6  119.4  196.9  —  1,367.9 
Spirit 636.6  68.5  —  —  705.1 
Total 1,688.2 187.9 196.9 — 2,073.0
Segment operating profit
Greene King 200.7  55.5  32.7  (25.0) 263.9 
Spirit 98.5  29.8  —  —  128.3 
Total 299.2  85.3  32.7  (25.0) 392.2 
Exceptional items (25.9)
Net finance costs (176.5)
Income tax credit 1.1 
 190.9 
EBITDA
2
Greene King 253.4  63.1  37.8  (22.2) 332.1 
Spirit 132.6  32.2 — —  164.8 
Total 386.0  95.3  37.8  (22.2) 496.9 
Balance sheet
Segment assets
Greene King 2,338.2  629.6  384.5  55.8  3,408.1 
Spirit 1,452.6  288.1 — — 1,740.7 
Unallocated assets
1
— — — — 460.4 
 3,790.8  917.7  384.5  55.8  5,609.2 
Segment liabilities
Greene King (73.1) (12.0) (84.8) (168.0) (337.9)
Spirit (362.1) (33.4) — (6.0) (401.5)
Unallocated liabilities
1
— — — — (2,996.2)
 (435.2) (45.4) (84.8) (174.0) (3,735.6)
Net assets 3,355.6  872.3  299.7  (118.2) 1,873.6 
Other segment information:
Capital expenditure
Additions – Greene King 111.3  15.4  6.3  7.1  140.1 
Additions – Spirit 45.9  5.9 — — 51.8 
 157.2  21.3  6.3  7.1  191.9 
Depreciation and amortisation
Greene King (52.7) (7.6) (5.1) (2.8) (68.2)
Spirit (34.1) (2.4) —  —  (36.5)
 (86.8) (10.0) (5.1) (2.8) (104.7)
1.  Unallocated assets/liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, derivatives and VAT provision acquired. Prior year assets and liabilities have 
been restated for the £33.7m deferred tax liability that has been offset against deferred tax assets as detailed in note 10.
2.  EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptionals adjusted for the depreciation 
and amortisation charge for the period. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Segment information continued
2015
Pub
Company
£m
Pub
Partners
£m
Brewing &
Brands
£m
Corporate
£m
 Total
operations
£m
External revenue 1,000.7  121.9  192.7  —  1,315.3 
Segment operating profit 190.8  54.0  29.8  (18.4) 256.2 
Exceptional items (43.9)
Net finance costs (94.1)
Income tax expense (28.9)
 89.3 
EBITDA
2
 239.8  61.6  34.9  (17.3) 319.0
Balance sheet
Segment assets 2,058.2  608.7  358.7  51.0  3,076.6 
Unallocated assets
1
 238.6 
 2,058.2  608.7  358.7  51.0  3,315.2 
Segment liabilities (110.0) (14.1) (73.7) (103.9) (301.7)
Unallocated liabilities
1
 (1,984.6)
 (110.0) (14.1) (73.7) (103.9) (2,286.3)
Net assets 1,948.2  594.6  285.0  (52.9) 1,028.9 
Other segment information:
Capital expenditure
Additions 139.4 18.9 4.7 2.6 165.6 
Depreciation (49.0) (7.6) (5.1) (1.1) (62.8)
1.  Unallocated assets/liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, derivatives and VAT provision acquired. Prior year assets and liabilities have 
been restated for the £33.7m deferred tax liability that has been offset against deferred tax assets as detailed in note 10.
2.  EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptionals adjusted for the depreciation 
and amortisation charge for the period.
Management reporting and controlling systems
Management monitors the operating results of its strategic business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources and 
assessing performance. Segment performance is measured based on segment operating profit or loss referred to as trading profit in our management 
and reporting systems. Included within the corporate column in the table above are functions managed by a central division.
No information about geographical regions has been provided as the group’s activities are predominantly domestic.
3 Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Goods 1,920.6  1,224.4 
Services 152.4  90.9 
 2,073.0  1,315.3
Revenue from services includes rent receivable from licensed properties of £50.5m (2015: £33.5m). GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
4 Operating expenses
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2016 2015
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of products sold recognised as an expense 748.7 —  748.7  515.2 — 515.2 
Employment costs (note 6) 529.4  9.7  539.1  336.8  0.9  337.7 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 94.9  —  94.9  62.8  —  62.8 
Amortisation (note 13) 9.8  —  9.8  —  —  — 
Operating lease rentals:
– Minimum lease rentals payable 71.9  —  71.9  17.0  —  17.0 
Other operating charges 226.1  39.5 265.6  127.3  43.1  170.4 
Net profit on disposal —  (23.3) (23.3) —  (0.1) (0.1)
 1,680.8  25.9  1,706.7  1,059.1  43.9  1,103.0 
Fees paid to the auditors during the period consisted of: 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.5  0.2 
Audit of subsidiaries 0.1  0.1 
Other services relating to acquisition —  1.2 
Tax advisory services —  0.1 
Included in other operating charges 0.6  1.6 
Audit of the consolidated financial statements includes additional one-off fees for additional procedures in relation to the acquisition of Spirit.
5 Exceptional items
2016
£m
2015
£m
Included in operating profit
Acquisition and integration costs 17.5 15.8
Net impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 32.2 27.4
Employee costs — 1.5
Share-based payment credit — (0.6)
Insurance proceeds (0.5) (0.1)
Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill (23.3) (0.1)
25.9 43.9
Included in financing costs
Interest on tax adjustment in respect of prior periods —  4.0 
Fair value losses on ineffective element of cash flow hedges 1.3  2.4 
Fair value movements of derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 39.1  — 
Interest on VAT provision (note 26) 0.4  — 
Total exceptional items before tax 66.7  50.3 
Tax impact of exceptional items  (11.4) (7.0)
Tax credit in respect of the licensed estate (33.6) (2.3)
Tax credit in respect of rate change (4.8) — 
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – income tax (0.5) 9.5 
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – deferred tax (0.2) (6.6)
Total exceptional tax (50.5) (6.4)
Total exceptional items after tax 16.2  43.9 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 Exceptional items continued
Exceptional operating costs
Acquisition and integration costs are items of one-off expenditure, including legal and professional fees, the costs of dedicated integration project teams 
and redundancy costs, incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Spirit.
During the period to 1 May 2016 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of £32.2m (2015: £27.4m). This is comprised of an impairment charge 
of £79.5m (2015: £27.4m) and reversal of previously recognised impairment losses of £47.3m (2015: £nil). The impairment charge includes £1.4m in respect 
of properties damaged by fire in the year. A £4.8m charge has also been recognised in respect of IT assets acquired with Spirit that will not form part 
of the IT infrastructure post integration. Impairment of £73.3m has been recognised in respect of a small number of pubs and is driven by changes in 
the local competitive and trading environment at the respective sites, and changes to estimates of fair value less costs of disposal. In addition to this 
impairment, reversals have been recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash 
flows for previously impaired sites or increases to fair value less costs of disposal.
In the period, the group received further insurance compensation to meet the costs of restoring sites fire damaged in a previous period totalling £0.5m (2015: £0.1m).
The net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill of £23.3m (2015: £0.1m profit) comprises a total profit on disposal of £50.1m 
(2015: £10.2m) and a total loss on disposal of £26.8m (2015: £10.1m). The net profit on disposal is made up of the following segments: Pub Company 
– Greene King £2.7m profit, Pub Partners – Greene King £17.5m profit, Pub Company – Spirit £0.5m loss, Pub Partners – Spirit £0.9m loss and Corporate 
£4.5m profit.
In the prior period the group incurred £1.5m of exceptional employee costs, which included restructuring costs and costs associated with changes to 
key management. In addition a share-based payment credit of £0.6m was recognised which resulted from the reversal of charges recognised in earlier 
years following a reassessment of expected scheme performance.
Exceptional finance costs
The £1.3m fair value loss (2015: £2.4m loss) is the mark-to-market movement on the ineffective element of cash flow hedges resulting from changes 
in the LIBOR yield curve (note 24).
During the period the group acquired as part of the business combination derivatives that are subsequently accounted for at fair value through profit and loss 
as opposed to existing derivatives which are designated in hedge relationships. The exceptional charge relates to the mark-to-market movement on these 
derivatives, excluding amortisation of the fair value on acquisition which reduces the pre-exceptional finance costs that include the interest paid (note 24).
Exceptional tax
The tax credit in respect of the licensed estate has arisen from movements in their tax base cost, including the impact of indexation.
The Finance (No.2) Act 2015 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. These rate reductions 
were substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore included in these accounts. The net deferred tax asset has been calculated using 
the rates at which each temporary difference is expected to reverse. The effect of these rate reductions is to reduce the deferred tax provision by a net 
£2.7m comprising a credit to the income statement of £4.8m and a debit to the group statement of comprehensive income and equity of £7.5m.
The adjustment in respect of prior periods’ income tax in 2015 arises from finalising the tax returns for earlier periods including the reversal of tax relief 
previously taken on intra-group transactions. On 6 June 2016 a formal agreement was reached on a number of historical tax positions, in respect of which 
£9m remains payable, excluding Sussex which will be heard by the Court of Appeal on 4 July 2016.
The adjustment in respect of prior periods’ deferred tax arises from finalising the tax returns for earlier periods and also deferred tax on revaluation 
and rolled over gains on the licensed estate. During the period the group recognised a deferred tax credit of £26.8m in relation to revaluation and rolled 
over gains on the licensed estate following correspondence with HMRC which clarified the treatment of certain judgmental items that led to a change in 
the group’s estimation of base cost.
6 Employment costs
2016 2015
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Wages and salaries 484.5  9.7  494.2  307.4  1.5  308.9 
Other share-based payments (note 8) 6.2 — 6.2  3.7  (0.6) 3.1 
Total wages and salaries 490.7  9.7  500.4  311.1  0.9  312.0 
Social security costs 32.0 — 32.0  21.1  —  21.1 
Other pension costs (note 9):
– Defined contribution 6.7  —  6.7  4.6  —  4.6 
 529.4  9.7  539.1 336.8  0.9  337.7 
The total expense of share-based payments relates to equity-settled schemes.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows:
2016 2015
Pub Company 39,587  22,709 
Pub Partners 50  56 
Brewing & Brands 806  875 
Corporate 1,043  485 
41,486 24,125 
The figures above include 20,638 (2015: 15,256) part-time employees.
Details of directors’ emoluments are shown in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 59 to 64. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
7 Finance (costs)/income
2016 2015
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (10.7) —  (10.7) (10.6) —  (10.6)
Other loans including recycling of cash flow hedge reserve (112.4) —  (112.4) (76.2) —  (76.2)
Ineffective element of cash flow hedges 1.6  (1.3) 0.3  1.6  (2.4) (0.8)
Derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss —  (39.1) (39.1) —  —  — 
Interest on tax adjustment in respect of prior period —  —  —  —  (4.0) (4.0)
Interest on tax provisions (1.2) —  (1.2) (0.4) —  (0.4)
Interest on exceptional VAT provision —  (0.4) (0.4) —  —  — 
Unwinding of discount element of provisions and off market contract liabilities (12.6) —  (12.6) (0.4) —  (0.4)
Net finance cost from pensions (1.9) —  (1.9) (2.0) —  (2.0)
Total finance costs (137.2) (40.8) (178.0) (88.0) (6.4) (94.4)
Bank interest receivable 1.5 — 1.5  0.3  —  0.3 
Total finance income 1.5 — 1.5  0.3  —  0.3 
Net finance costs (135.7) (40.8) (176.5) (87.7) (6.4) (94.1)
8 Share-based payment plans
The group operates three types of share-based payment arrangements: a senior management long-term incentive plan (LTIP/Growth LTIP), a deferred 
share scheme for other management and a general employee share option plan (SAYE). In prior periods a deferred bonus scheme and an executive 
share option scheme (ESOS) have also been operated.
The general terms of the LTIP/Growth LTIP are detailed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 59 to 64. All are equity settled.
The total charge recognised for the period arising from share-based payment transactions including National Insurance contributions is £7.1m (2015: £3.4m). 
A corresponding credit of £6.2m (2015: £3.1m) has been recognised in equity. The increase is due to a change in estimate on the expected result 
of performance conditions.
The fair value of the LTIP/Growth LTIP issued since 2015 is considered to be equal to the share price on the date of issue. For 2016 issue the fair value 
was 8.63p (2015: 8.40p) per share option. Future dividend payments have not been factored into the valuation as participants are entitled to dividend 
payments. The fair value of previously issued LTIPs were estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of other equity-settled options are estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair values of the grants and model inputs used to calculate 
the fair values of grants during the period were as follows:
2016 
SAYE 
2015
SAYE 
Weighted average share price 870p 857p
Exercise price 726p 590p
Expected dividend yield 3.9% 3.6%
Risk-free rate of return 0.6% 0.7%
Volatility 21.2% 20.1%
Expected life (years) 3.3 3.3
Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 140p 215p
Risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds with the same life as the expected option life. Expected volatility is based on 
historical volatility of the company’s share price which assumes that the past trend in share price movement is indicative of future trends. Expected life 
of options has been taken as the mid-point of the relevant exercise period. This is not necessarily indicative of future exercise patterns.
No other feature of the equity instruments granted was incorporated into the fair value measurement. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 Share-based payment plans continued
Movement in outstanding options and rights during the period are as follows:
ESOS
 Number of options 
 Weighted average
 exercise price 
2016
m
2015
m
2016
p
2015
p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.1  0.3 528 506
Exercised (0.1) (0.2) 528 500
Outstanding at the end of the period —  0.1 528 528
Exercisable at the end of the period —  0.1  — 528
SAYE
 Number of options 
 Weighted average
 exercise price 
2016
m
2015
m
2016
p
2015
p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.9 1.6 570 502
Granted 1.0 1.1 726 590
Forfeited (0.3) (0.3) 603 586
Exercised (0.3) (0.5) 462 375
Outstanding at the end of the period 2.3  1.9 645 570
Exercisable at the end of the period 0.2 0.2 453 378
LTIP
 Number of shares 
2016
m
2015
m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2.1 2.5 
Granted 1.0 0.7 
Forfeited (0.2) (0.3)
Vested (0.7) (0.8)
Outstanding at the end of the period 2.2  2.1 
Exercisable at the end of the period — — 
The options and shares granted under the LTIP are at nil cost; therefore the weighted average exercise price for rights outstanding at the beginning 
and end of the period, granted, forfeited and exercised during the period is £nil (2015: £nil).
ESOS, SAYE and LTIP
Options were exercised on a range of dates. The weighted average share price through the period was 856p in 2016 and 809p in 2015.
The rights outstanding at 1 May 2016 under the LTIP had an exercise price of £nil (2015: £nil) and a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 1.4 years (2015: 1.3 years).
The outstanding options for the SAYE scheme had an exercise price of between 368p and 726p (2015: 349p and 701p) and the weighted average 
remaining contractual life was 3.4 years (2015: 3.4 years).
In the prior year outstanding options for the ESOS scheme had an exercise price of 528p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.3 years.
9 Pensions
The group maintains three defined contribution schemes, which are open to all new employees, and three defined benefit schemes.
The group also has a past service liability in relation to post-employment medical benefits previously offered to employees to cover any medical costs 
after employment. This benefit is no longer given to employees.
Defined contribution pension schemes
Member funds for the defined contribution schemes are held and administered by the Friends Life Group. The total cost recognised in operating profit 
for the period was £6.7m (2015: £4.6m). GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Pensions continued
Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits
The group maintains the following defined benefit schemes which are closed to new entrants and are closed to future accrual. Only administrative costs 
are incurred going forward. All schemes have had full actuarial valuations in the last three years: Greene King Pension Scheme (last valued as at April 2015), 
Belhaven Pension Scheme (last valued May 2014) and Spirit (Legacy) Scheme (last valued April 2015).
Member funds for the defined benefit schemes are held in separate funds independently of the group’s finances and are administered by pension 
trustees. Pension benefits are related to members’ final salary at the earlier of retirement or closure to future accrual and their length of service.
Since the pension liability is adjusted for the changes to consumer price index, the pension plan is exposed to inflation, interest rate risks and changes 
in the life expectancy for pensioners. As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equity shares of entities in manufacturing and consumer 
product sector, the group is also exposed to equity market risk arising in the manufacturing and consumer products sector. The significant increase 
in equities and bonds is due to the acquisition of Spirit. The majority of the bonds relate to UK government and corporate bonds.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was:
Pension schemes
Post-employment
benefits
2016
£m
2015
 £m 
2016
£m
2015
 £m 
Administrative costs 2.1 —  —  — 
Total recognised in operating profit 2.1 —  —  — 
Interest on pension scheme assets 26.5  12.0  —  — 
Interest on scheme liabilities (28.4) (14.0) —  — 
Net interest on net defined liability (1.9) (2.0) —  — 
The values of the schemes’ liabilities have been determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of the last actuarial valuation, updated to 1 May 2016 
using the following principal actuarial assumptions:
2016 2015
Discount rate 3.4% 3.4%
Expected pension payment increases 3.4% 3.2%
Rate of inflation (RPI) 3.3% 3.3%
Rate of inflation (CPI) 2.3% 2.3%
The mortality assumptions imply the following expectations of years of life from age 65:
Man currently aged 40 24.4  24.5 
Woman currently aged 40 26.5  26.7 
Man currently aged 65 22.2  22.3 
Woman currently aged 65 24.2  24.4 
Mortality assumptions are based on standard tables adjusted for scheme experience and with an allowance for future improvement in life expectancy.
The table below shows the investment allocation of pension assets against the related liabilities of the pension schemes and other post-employment benefits:
Pension plans
value
Post-employment
benefits
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Investment quoted in active markets:
Equities 366.6  257.0  —  — 
With profits 3.1  3.0  —  — 
Bonds 370.2  62.7  —  — 
Annuities 1.5  —  —  — 
Unquoted investments:
Property 48.0  —  —  — 
Cash 11.8  1.7  —  — 
Total fair value of assets 801.2  324.4  —  — 
Present value of scheme liabilities:
– Funded plans (853.5) (383.6) —  — 
– Unfunded plans —  —  (1.3) (1.3)
Non-current liability recognised (52.3) (59.2) (1.3) (1.3)
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Pensions continued
Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits continued
The movements in the pension schemes’ net liability and post-employment benefits liability during the period are as follows: 
Pension assets Pension liabilities Net pension liability
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
At beginning of period 324.4  295.5  (383.6) (347.7) (59.2) (52.2)
Net acquisition (note 17) 480.4  —  (477.5) —  2.9  — 
Pension costs charged to income statement
Administrative costs (2.1)  — — —  (2.1) — 
Net interest 26.5  12.0  (28.4) (14.0) (1.9) (2.0)
 24.4  12.0  (28.4) (14.0) (4.0) (2.0)
Benefits paid (35.7) (10.6) 35.7  10.6  —  — 
Remeasurement (losses)/gains in other comprehensive income
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expenses) (4.8) 20.6  —  —  (4.8) 20.6 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions —  —  5.1  2.1  5.1  2.1 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions —  —  (19.9) (35.0) (19.9) (35.0)
Experience adjustments —  —  15.1  0.4  15.1  0.4 
 (4.8) 20.6  0.3  (32.5) (4.5) (11.9)
Contributions paid – employers 12.5  6.9  —  —  12.5  6.9 
Contributions paid – employees —  —  —  —  —  — 
At end of period 801.2  324.4  (853.5) (383.6) (52.3) (59.2)
Contributions on the Spirit pension scheme stopped in 2016 therefore expected future contributions have reduced accordingly.
Post-employment
benefits liability
2016
£m
2015
£m
At beginning and end of period (1.3) (1.3)
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions assessed in isolation that have been used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below:
 Decrease/(increase)
in liability 
 2016 
 £m 
 2015 
 £m 
0.25%pts increase in discount rate 37.1  16.8 
0.25%pts increase in inflation assumption (29.6) (13.8)
Additional one year increase to life expectancy (27.1) (12.5)
The following payments, which are also the minimum funding requirements, are the expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Within 1 year 3.3  6.9 
Between 2 and 5 years 13.1  27.5 
Between 5 and 10 years 12.4  17.4 
 28.8  51.8 
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years (2015: 18 years). GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Taxation
2016 2015
Consolidated income statement
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Income tax
Corporation tax before exceptional items 32.6  —  32.6  38.5  —  38.5 
Recoverable on exceptional items —  (3.2) (3.2) —  (1.2) (1.2)
Current income tax  32.6  (3.2) 29.4  38.5  (1.2) 37.3 
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1.0) (0.5)  (1.5) —  9.5  9.5 
 31.6  (3.7) 27.9  38.5  8.3  46.8 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 17.3  (41.8) (24.5) (3.2) (8.1) (11.3)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.5  (0.2) 0.3  —  (6.6) (6.6)
Tax credit in respect of rate change —  (4.8) (4.8) —  —  — 
 17.8  (46.8) (29.0) (3.2) (14.7) (17.9)
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 49.4  (50.5) (1.1) 35.3  (6.4) 28.9 
Group statement of comprehensive income
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred tax
Loss on actuarial valuation of pension liability (0.8) (2.4)
Net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges (2.3) (12.7)
Tax charge in respect of rate change 7.1  —
 4.0  (15.1)
Group statement of changes in equity
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred tax
Share-based payment – future taxable benefit 3.4  3.4 
Tax charge in respect of rate change 0.4 —
Deferred tax reported in equity 3.8  3.4 
Income tax
Share-based payments – current taxable benefit (3.0) (1.9)
Total tax reported in equity 0.8 1.5
Reconciliation of income tax expense for period
The effective rate of taxation is lower (2015: higher) than the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit before tax 189.8  118.2 
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.0% (2015: 20.9%) 38.0  24.7 
Effects of:
– Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5  3.6 
– Exceptional deferred tax credit in respect of licensed estate (33.6) (2.3)
– Exceptional tax credit in respect of rate change (4.8) — 
– Adjustment in respect of prior periods – income tax (1.5) 9.5 
– Adjustment in respect of prior periods – deferred tax  0.3  (6.6)
Income tax (credit)/expense reported in the income statement (1.1) 28.9 
Income tax payable
The income tax liability of £30.3m (2015: £50.8m) includes an assessment of the expected liabilities in respect of uncertain tax positions of £10.5m 
(2015: £31.6m) which have yet to be agreed or are in dispute with HMRC. On 6 June 2016 a formal agreement was reached on a number of historical tax 
positions, in respect of which £9m remains payable at the year end, excluding Sussex which will be heard by the Court of Appeal on 4 July 2016.
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Taxation continued
Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred tax liability
Accelerated capital allowances 30.8 33.7 
Rolled over gains and property revaluation 29.6 63.8 
Operating leases 28.7 — 
Other temporary differences 8.7 — 
97.8 97.5
Deferred tax asset
Post-employment liabilities (9.7) (12.1)
Other temporary differences (0.1) (0.9)
Derivative financial instruments (79.4) (47.1)
Share-based payment (1.5) (1.9)
Off market contract liabilities (53.7) — 
Capital losses carried forward (11.7) (6.4) 
Trading losses carried forward (2.5) — 
(158.6) (68.4)
Net deferred tax (asset)/liability (60.8) 29.1 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities and when it is 
the intention to settle the balances on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows:
1 May 2016
£m
3 May 2015
£m
Deferred tax liability 17.9  57.4 
Deferred tax asset (78.7) (28.3)
Net deferred tax (asset)/liability (60.8) 29.1 
The deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows:
2016 2015
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
 exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax in the income statement
Accelerated capital allowances 3.6 (4.0) (0.4) (3.5) (0.8) (4.3)
Rolled over gains and property revaluations — (47.6) (47.6) — (14.6) (14.6)
Operating leases (1.6) (3.4) (5.0) — — —
Post-employment liabilities 1.5 (1.2) 0.3 0.9 — 0.9 
Other temporary differences 0.8 (1.5) (0.7) — 1.2 1.2 
Derivative financial instruments 2.2 (4.0) (1.8) — (0.5) (0.5)
Share-based payments (1.7) 0.4 (1.3) (0.6) — (0.6)
Off market contract liabilities 2.5 6.3 8.8 — — —
Capital losses carried forward — 8.2 8.2 — — —
Tax losses carried forward 10.5 — 10.5 — — — 
Deferred tax credit/(expense) 17.8 (46.8) (29.0) (3.2) (14.7) (17.9) GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
10 Taxation continued
Deferred tax continued
The movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Rolled over
gains and
property
revaluation
£m
Operating
leases
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 4 May 2014 38.0  80.8  —  —  118.8 
Credit to the income statement (4.3) (17.0) —  —  (21.3)
At 3 May 2015 33.7  63.8  —  —  97.5 
Credit to the income statement (0.4) (47.6) (5.0) (1.6) (54.6)
Acquired (note 17) (2.5) 13.4  33.7  10.3  54.9 
At 1 May 2016 30.8  29.6  28.7  8.7  97.8 
Deferred tax assets
Post-
employment
liabilities
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Derivatives
£m
Share-based
payments
£m
Off market
contract
liability
£m
Capital
losses
carried
forward
£m
Trading
losses
carried
forward
£m
Total
£m
At 4 May 2014 (10.6) (2.1) (33.9) (4.7) — (8.8) — (60.1)
(Credit)/charge to equity/comprehensive income (2.4) — (12.7) 3.4 — — — (11.7)
Charge/(credit) to the income statement 0.9 1.2 (0.5) (0.6) — 2.4 — 3.4 
At 3 May 2015 (12.1) (0.9) (47.1) (1.9) — (6.4) — (68.4)
Charge to equity/comprehensive income 1.5 — 2.5 3.8 — — — 7.8 
Charge/(credit) to the income statement 0.3 0.9 (1.8) (1.3) 8.8 8.2 10.5 25.6 
Acquired (note 17) 0.6 — (33.0) (2.2) (62.5) (13.5) (13.0) (123.6)
At 1 May 2016 (9.7) — (79.4) (1.6) (53.7) (11.7) (2.5) (158.6)
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by Greene King plc to its shareholders.
At 1 May 2016, the group had unused trading losses of £12.6m (2015: £nil) and unused capital losses of £815.5m (2015: £32.0m). A deferred tax asset 
of £2.5m (2015: £nil) has been recognised in respect of trading losses and a deferred tax asset of £11.7m (2015: £6.4m) in respect of capital losses 
where tax losses are expected to be utilised against future profits and gains. Current legislation allows all of the group’s tax losses to be carried forward 
for an unlimited period.
Prior year restatement
The comparatives have been restated to reflect the netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as in the current year, the net impact being that a £33.7m 
(2014: £38.0m) deferred tax liability has been offset against deferred tax assets.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Finance Act (No.2) Act 2015 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. These rate 
reductions were substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore included in these accounts. The net deferred tax asset has been 
calculated using the rates at which each temporary difference is expected to reverse. The effect of these rate reductions is to reduce the net deferred 
tax asset by a net £2.7m comprising a credit to the income statement of £4.8m and a debit to the group statement of comprehensive income and equity 
of £7.5m (as explained in note 5).
In addition the Finance Bill 2016 further reduces the rate of corporation tax to 17% from 1 April 2020. This further reduction had not been substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date so is not included in these accounts. However, it will further reduce the net deferred tax asset at the balance sheet 
date by £3.0m and the group’s income tax charge in future periods.
11 Dividends paid and proposed
2016
£m
2015
£m
Declared and paid in the period
Interim dividend for 2016 – 8.45p (2015: 7.95p) 26.2  17.4 
Final dividend for 2015 – 21.8p (2014: 20.8p) 67.1  45.4 
 93.3  62.8 
Proposed for approval at AGM
Final dividend for 2016 – 23.60p (2015: 21.8p) 73.0 67.1 
Total proposed dividend for 2016 – 32.05p (2015: 29.75p) 99.2 84.5 
Dividends on own shares have been waived. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of £190.9m (2015: £89.3m) by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the period of 296.2m (2015: 218.3m).
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on a similar basis taking account of 1.6m (2015: 1.6m) dilutive potential shares under option, giving a 
weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution of 297.8m (2015: 219.9m). There were no (2015: nil) anti-dilutive share 
options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation. The performance conditions for share options granted over 1.6m (2015: 1.5m) shares 
have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period 
end has not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional items and is presented to show the underlying performance of the group on both a basic 
and diluted basis.
Earnings Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
p
2015
p
2016
p
2015
p
Profit attributable to equity holders 190.9  89.3  64.4  40.9  64.1  40.6 
Exceptional items 16.2  43.9  5.5  20.1  5.4  20.0 
Profit attributable to equity holders before exceptional items 207.1  133.2  69.9  61.0  69.5 60.6
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Brand
intangibles
 £m 
Operating
lease
intangible
 £m 
Total 
other
intangibles
 £m 
Goodwill
 £m 
Cost
At 4 May 2014 — — — 703.8 
Disposal — — — (2.9)
At 3 May 2015 — — — 700.9 
Disposal — — — (13.0)
Acquisitions (note 17) 16.1 168.3 184.4 434.0 
At 1 May 2016 16.1 168.3 184.4 1,121.9 
Impairment and amortisation
At 4 May 2014 and 3 May 2015 — — — — 
Amortisation (0.9) (8.9) (9.8) — 
At 3 May 2015 and 1 May 2016 (0.9) (8.9) (9.8) — 
Net book value 
At 1 May 2016 15.2 159.4 174.6 1,121.9 
At 3 May 2015 — — — 700.9 
At 4 May 2014 — — — 703.8 
Other intangibles consists of Brand intangibles and Operating lease intangibles both recognised as part of the acquisition made during the year (see note 17). 
Brand intangibles are amortised over the expected life of the asset (15 years). Operating lease intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over the length 
of the lease with a weighted average useful life of 26 years.
All goodwill was recognised as part of business combinations. As from 3 May 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised 
but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill has been allocated to operating segments, the lowest group of cash-generating units in the group at which goodwill is monitored internally, 
based on the extent that the benefits of acquisitions flow to that segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pub Company – Greene King 566.3 352.7 
Pub Company – Spirit 133.6 — 
Pub Partners – Greene King 169.5 133.7 
Pub Partners – Spirit 17.6 — 
Brewing & Brands 234.9 214.5 
1,121.9 700.9 
Goodwill disposed of in the year is the amount of goodwill allocated to parts of operating segments disposed of during the year. The amount disposed 
is calculated based on the relative value of the operation disposed and the portion of the operating segment retained. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill disposed of in the year:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pub Company – Greene King 4.3 0.8 
Pub Partners – Greene King 8.7 2.1 
13.0 2.9 
The recoverable amount of each segment was determined on a value-in-use basis, using cash flow projections based on one year budgets approved 
by the board, and in all cases exceeded the carrying amount.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are budgeted EBITDA, the pre-tax discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash 
flows beyond the budgeted period.
Budgeted EBITDA is based on past experience adjusted to take account of the impact of expected changes to sales prices, volumes, business mix 
and margin, based on the current estate.
Cash flows are discounted at 8.65% (2015: 9.0%), which is used as an approximation for the risk-adjusted discount rate of the relevant operating segment. 
As risk factors are considered to be similar in each of the group’s operating segments the same level of discount rate is applied to all. A growth rate of 1.75% 
in Pub Company (2015: 1.00%), 2.50% in Pub Partners (2015: 1.00%) and 1.00% in Brewing & Brands (2015: 1.00%) has been used to extrapolate cash 
flows. The growth rate is below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments and reflects trends in trading performance.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The calculation is most sensitive to changes in the assumptions used for budgeted cash flow, pre-tax discount rate and growth rate. Management considers 
that reasonably possible changes in assumptions would be an increase in discount of 1%pt, a reduction in growth rate of 1%pt or a 10% reduction in 
budgeted cash flow. As an indication of sensitivity, when applied to the value-in-use calculation in isolation or individually neither a 1% reduction in growth 
rate, a 10% reduction in budgeted cash flow, nor a 1% increase in the discount rate would have resulted in an impairment of goodwill in the period. In the 
prior year a 1% increase in the discount rate would have resulted in an impairment of £4.6m to the goodwill allocated to Pub Partners, with the carrying 
amount equalling the recoverable amount at a discount rate of 9.9%.
14 Property, plant and equipment
Licensed estate Other
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
 Total 
£m
Cost
Balances at 4 May 2014 2,060.1 631.8 63.4 125.9 2,881.2 
Additions during period 99.1 59.3 2.8 4.4 165.6 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale (0.8) (0.1) — — (0.9)
Disposals during period (28.1) (9.7) (0.1) — (37.9)
Balances at 3 May 2015 2,130.3 681.3 66.1 130.3 3,008.0 
Additions during period 96.6 92.7 (0.2) 2.8 191.9 
Acquisitions (note 17) 1,265.0 142.7 5.7 — 1,413.4 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale (2.6) — — — (2.6)
Disposals during period (45.8) (11.2) (1.0) (0.4) (58.4)
Balances at 1 May 2016 3,443.5 905.5 70.6 132.7 4,552.3 
Depreciation and impairment
Balances at 4 May 2014 167.1 452.8 13.1 78.5 711.5 
Provided during the year 7.5 49.1 1.8 4.4 62.8 
Written back on disposals (23.1) (5.5) — — (28.6)
Impairment (see below) 27.4 — — — 27.4 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale (0.4) (0.1) — — (0.5)
Balances at 3 May 2015 178.5 496.3 14.9 82.9 772.6 
Provided during the year 2.0 86.6 1.8 4.5 94.9 
Written back on disposals (10.8) (7.3) (0.2) (0.1) (18.4)
Impairment (see below) 74.7 — — 4.8 79.5 
Impairment reversal (see below) (47.3) — — — (47.3)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale (0.3) — — — (0.3) 
Balances at 1 May 2016 196.8 575.6 16.5 92.1 881.0 
Net book value
At 1 May 2016 3,246.7 329.9 54.1 40.6 3,671.3
At 3 May 2015 1,951.8 185.0 51.2 47.4 2,235.4 
At 4 May 2014 1,893.0 179.0 50.3 47.4 2,169.7 
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
The licensed estate relates to properties, and assets held within those properties, licensed to trade (i.e. managed, tenanted and leased houses). 
Other assets relate to property, plant and equipment associated with unlicensed properties (i.e. brewing, distribution and central assets).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Freehold properties 3,171.9 1,895.9 
Leasehold properties >50 years unexpired term 75.6 64.7 
Leasehold properties <50 years unexpired term 53.3 42.4 
3,300.8 2,003.0 
Valuation
The licensed estate properties were valued by the group’s own professionally qualified chartered surveyors, as at 20 December 2003, on the basis of 
existing use value, in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors’ Appraisal and Valuation Standards. A representative sample of properties 
was also valued by external valuers, Gerald Eve Chartered Surveyors and Property Consultants, who confirmed that the values were consistent with 
their appraisal. Frozen revaluation has been taken as deemed cost on the transition to IFRS; therefore, no historic cost analysis is provided.
Up to 1999 the brewery and depots were valued at depreciated replacement cost and other properties at open market value. These valuations 
have been retained but they have not been updated. Subsequent additions have been included at cost or, in the case of acquisitions, at fair value.
Charges over assets
Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of £1,446.2m (2015: £1,425.2m) and £1,519.1m (2015: £nil) over which there is a first 
charge in favour of the securitised debt holders of the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively. See details 
in note 23.
Assets held under finance leases
The group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases. The leases have various 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book 
value of £22.3m (2015: £nil).
Disposals
Disposals includes properties sold during the year, some of which were required in order to complete the acquisition.
Future capital expenditure
2016
£m
2015
£m
Contracted for 7.6 7.0 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
During the period to 1 May 2016 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of £32.2m (2015: £27.4m). This is comprised of an impairment charge 
of £79.5m (2015: £27.4m) and reversal of previously recognised impairment losses of £47.3m (2015: £nil). The recoverable amount for assets impaired 
was based on value in use of £25.2m and fair value less cost of disposal of £47.3m. The recoverable amount for assets with impairment reversal was 
based on value in use of £43.0m and fair value less cost of disposal of £4.6m.
These are analysed between the group’s principal reporting segments as shown below:
2016 2015
Impairment
£m
Reversal of
impairment
£m
Net
impairment
£m
Impairment
£m
Reversal of
impairment
£m
Net
impairment
£m
Pub Company – Greene King 56.6  (33.5) 23.1  21.1  —  21.1 
Pub Partners – Greene King 17.4  (13.8) 3.6  6.3  —  6.3 
Corporate 5.5  —  5.5  —  —  — 
79.5 (47.3) 32.2 27.4  — 27.4 
The group considers that each of its individual pubs is a cash-generating unit (CGU). Each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. 
When indicators of impairment are identified the carrying value of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of the CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value-in-use.
The group estimates value-in-use using a discounted cash flow model. The key assumptions used are expected cash flow projections for the next year, 
the discount rate applied to those cash flows of 8.65% (2015: 9.00%) and the projected cash flows extrapolated using an average growth rate of 1.75% 
in Pub Company (2015: 1.00%) and 2.50% in Pub Partners (2015: 1.00%) which are below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments 
and reflect trends in trading performance. As risk factors are considered to be similar in each of the group’s operating segments the same level of discount 
rate is applied to all.
Cash flow projections relating to individual CGUs have been made based on historic trends adjusted for management’s estimates of medium-term 
trading prospects.
Estimates of fair value less costs of disposal are based on an external valuation with the latest valuation being performed in 2015/2016. The valuation 
considers assumptions such as current and future projected income levels, which take account of the location and quality of the pub. In addition recent 
market transactions in the sector and potential alternative use values have been considered. 
The valuation techniques applied are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. As they use significant unobservable inputs they 
are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; this hierarchy is further explained in note 24. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairment of property, plant and equipment continued
The impairment charge recognised in relation to a small number of pubs was driven by changes in the local competitive and trading environment at their 
respective sites, and decisions taken to exit some sites where current market values are lower than book values. The impairment reversals have been 
recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows for previously impaired sites.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgments used in arriving at fair values, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to 
cash flow projections. The net impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to fair values, the growth rates used to calculate cash 
flow projections and the pre-tax discount rates would be as follows:
Increased net impairment resulting from:
a 10% reduction in fair
value less cost of disposal
a 1% increase
in discount rate
a 1% reduction
in growth rate
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Pub Company 9.8  10.5  11.7  5.0  11.7  5.0 
Pub Partners 2.2  2.3  3.1  1.0  3.1  1.0 
12.0 12.8 14.8 6.0 14.8 6.0 
No impairment was recognised in relation to the Spirit estate and as such the above sensitivities only include the Greene King estate.
15 Financial assets
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade loans (net of provision) 9.8 9.1 
Total current 9.8  9.1 
Trade loans (net of provision) 16.3 20.8 
Other financial assets 0.5 0.5 
Total non current 16.8 21.3 
Trade loans are net of provisions of £5.1m (2015: £4.1m). During the year £0.3m (2015: £0.2m) of the provision was utilised and £1.3m (2015: £0.2m) 
of new provision was created. All trade loans that are neither past due nor impaired are expected to be fully recoverable. All significant overdue balances 
are fully provided for.
Trade loans are advanced to customers on terms linked to supply terms such that returns are greater than interest income. The fixed rate trade loans 
amounted to £19.2m (2015: £20.7m) and variable rate trade loans amounted to £12.0m (2015: £13.3m). Included in fixed rate loans are £16.4m of loans 
with settlement related to purchase levels (2015: £17.5m). The write down of these loans has been taken on a straight-line basis over the remaining term 
of the loan as an approximation of the settlement.
The fixed rate trade loans had a weighted average interest rate of 0.50% (2015: 0.64%) and a weighted average period of 3.93 years (2015: 4.55 years). 
Interest rates on variable rate trade loans are linked to base rate.
Trade loans (net of provision)
2016
£m
2015
£m
Balance at beginning of period 29.9 32.3 
Advances 4.1 5.5 
Repayments and amortisation (6.9) (7.9)
Provisions (1.0) — 
Balance at end of period 26.0 29.9 
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Subsidiary undertakings
The subsidiary undertakings are:
Subsidiary undertakings
 Principal 
 activity 
Country of
incorporation Held by Holding 
 Proportion 
of voting
rights and
 ownership
Directly held by Greene King plc
Beards of Sussex Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Debt Acquisitions Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Developments Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King EBT Investment (Jersey) Limited Holding company Jersey Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King GP Limited Dormant England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Investments Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Pension Scheme Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Properties Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Pubs Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Retailing Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Morrells of Oxford Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Norman Limited Holding company Channel Islands Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Realpubs Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Rushmere Sports Club Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
The Capital Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Indirectly held by Greene King plc
Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Ashes Investment LP Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Aspect Leisure Activities Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Aspect Ventures Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
AVL (Pubs) No.1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
AVL (Pubs) No.2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Barnaby’s Carvery Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Barshelf 2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Finance Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Group Properties Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Pubs Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Capital Pub Company Trading Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Preference shares 100%
Catertour Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Chef & Brewer Hotels Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Chef & Brewer Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Cheshire Hotels (Developments) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Cheshire Hotels Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Preference shares 100%
City Limits Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Cleveland Place Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Cloverleaf Restaurants Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Country Fayre Restaurants Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Country Grill Restaurants Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
CPH (R&L) No.1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
CPH (R&L) No.2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
CPH Palladium Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Dearg Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Freehouse Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Freshwild Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
G.K. Holdings No.1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Acquisitions (No.3) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Acquisitions No.2 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Subsidiary undertakings
 Principal 
 activity 
Country of
incorporation Held by Holding 
 Proportion 
of voting
rights and
 ownership
Greene King Leasing No.1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Leasing No.2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Neighbourhood Estate Pubs Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Hardys & Hansons Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Homespreads Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Huggins and Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
John Barras & Co Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
LFR Group Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Little London Pubs Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
London Pub-Restaurants Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
London Tourist Pubs Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary 4.9% cumulative 
preference shares
100%
4.2% cumulative 
preference shares
100%
Ordinary shares 100%
Employee shares 100%
Mountloop Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Narnain Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
New Pubco Holdings Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Old English Inns Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Open House Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Partstripe Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Premium Casual Dining Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Premium Dining Restaurants and Pubs Limited Retailing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
R.V. Goodhew Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Deferred 
ordinary shares
100%
Readystripe Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Realpubs Developments Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Realpubs II Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Sapphire Food North East No.1 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Sapphire Food North West No.3 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Sapphire Food South East No.4 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Sapphire Food South West No.2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Sapphire Rural Destinations No.5 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Schooner Inns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Southern Inns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (AKE Holdings) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (BRB) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (CCR) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary 7% cumulative 
preference shares
100%
Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (Faith) Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (Legacy) Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (Lodges Holdings) Limited
1
Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (OOL) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (PSC) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (Redwood Bidco) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit (SGL) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Acquisition Properties Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
16 Subsidiary undertakings continued Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Subsidiary undertakings
 Principal 
 activity 
Country of
incorporation Held by Holding 
 Proportion 
of voting
rights and
 ownership
Spirit Acquisitions Guarantee Limited
1
Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary n/a n/a
Spirit Acquisitions Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Financial Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Finco Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Funding Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Equity Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail (North) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail (Northampton) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Preference shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail (Pubs) No.1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail (Pubs) No.2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail (South) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail Hotels Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Preference shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail Pensions Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Group Retail Pubs and Restaurants Limited Non-trading Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Intermediate Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Managed Funding Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Preference shares 100%
Spirit Managed Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Managed Inns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Derwent) Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Inns) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Investments) Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Leased) Limited Leasing of public houses England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Managed) Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Services) Limited Administration England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (SGE) Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Supply) Limited Procurement England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pub Company (Trent) Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Pubs Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit Retail Bidco Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Spirit SLB Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Springtarn Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Steward & Patteson Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Stickpad Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Telscombe Tavern Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
The Chef & Brewer Group Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
The Host Group Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
The Nice Pub Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Tom Cobleigh (Inns) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Tom Cobleigh (Trading) Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Tom Cobleigh Group Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Tom Cobleigh Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Tom Cobleigh Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Whitegate Taverns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
1. Company is limited by guarantee.
16 Subsidiary undertakings continued GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Business combinations
On 23 June 2015 the group completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc creating the UK’s leading managed pub company.
The acquisition provides the group with the opportunity to accelerate its retail expansion strategy by creating the UK’s leading managed pub operator 
with significantly enhanced estate quality and scale. The group’s tenanted business will materially benefit from the high quality of the acquired estate, 
and the Greene King Brewing & Brands business will benefit from additional routes to market.
The group acquired 100% of the share capital of Spirit Pub Company plc for consideration of £763.1m, made up of 89,095,959 shares of Greene King plc 
with a market value of £8.565 per share on completion.
Fair value of assets acquired £m
Property, plant and equipment 1,413.4 
Brand intangibles 16.1 
Operating leases (intangible assets) 168.3 
Inventories 9.0 
Trade receivables 7.5 
Other receivables/prepayments 33.6 
Property, plant and equipment held for sale 6.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 147.5 
Trade payables (52.9)
Other payables/accruals (160.7)
Off-market contract liabilities (312.7)
Retirement benefit asset 2.9 
Provisions (30.4)
Deferred tax 68.7 
Derivatives (165.2)
Finance lease (22.7)
Borrowings (799.3)
Fair value of net assets acquired 329.1 
Goodwill 434.0 
Consideration 763.1 
The net cash flow impact of the acquisition is:
£m
Special dividend paid to Spirit Pub Company shareholders (43.2)
Cash acquired 147.5 
104.3 
Fair value of debt and finance leases acquired (822.0)
(717.7)
At the interim provisional fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were presented. As a result of the work completed since the interim goodwill 
has changed from £456.4m to £434.0m.
Goodwill has arisen primarily due to expected operating synergies, in recognition of management’s proven track record, and as a result of opportunities 
that are expected to arise to optimise performance in the enlarged group’s pub estate. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes 
is £nil. The goodwill arising on acquisition has been allocated to the operating segments based on the forecast level of synergies expected by operating segment.
The fair value of properties acquired including operating leases was established following a review of properties that was carried out by external qualified 
surveyors. Properties have been revalued at their existing use value giving consideration to the highest and best use of the properties. The values of other 
current assets and liabilities have been adjusted to amounts to be realised or paid respectively.
Off-market contract liabilities of £312.7m have been recognised upon acquisition where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms. 
For leases where the current rentals are below market terms, the related asset is considered to be included within the residual value of the leasehold 
pub. For other acquired pubs an off-market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the 
present value of future market rate rentals. External qualified surveyors were engaged to provide a formal evaluation of current market rentals for the 
acquired leased pub assets. Rental growth rates of 2.0–2.5% were taken from market consensus forecasts for the retail sector and a discount rate of 5% 
was applied, being the estimated incremental borrowing costs of the acquired business, to arrive at the present value of market rentals.
Brand Intangibles of £16.1m have been recognised to the extent that a format provides a profit benefit versus similar unbranded pubs. Brand intangibles 
are being amortised over a useful economic life of 15 years.
Trade receivables acquired have gross contractual value of £8.9m, the best estimate of amounts not expected to be collected is £1.4m and therefore the 
fair value recognised is £7.5m. Other receivables and prepayments have a gross contracted amount of £35.1m; the best estimate of amounts not expected 
to be collected is £1.5m and therefore a fair value of £33.6m has been recognised.
Further details on provisions acquired are disclosed in note 26.
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Business combinations continued
In the period to 1 May 2016 acquisition related costs of £1.3m have been recognised within exceptional acquisition and integration costs totalling £17.5m 
(see note 5), and a further £2.1m of share issue costs have been recognised in retained earnings. In the year to 3 May 2015 acquisition costs, which 
included amounts contingent on completion, of £13.4m were recognised.
Since 24 June 2015 Spirit Pub Company has contributed revenue of £705.1m, pre-exceptional operating profit of £128.3m and profit before tax and exceptional 
items of £79.3m.
If the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company had taken place at the start of the financial period, the enlarged Greene King group would have recognised revenue 
of £2,193.6m, pre-exceptional operating profit of £414.6m and profit before tax and exceptional items of £270.6m.
18 Inventories
2016
£m
2015
£m
Raw materials and work in progress 4.7 4.5 
Finished goods and goods for resale 34.2 25.4 
Consumable stores 2.4 2.2 
41.3 32.1 
19 Trade and other receivables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Other receivables 0.1  0.1 
Total non current 0.1  0.1 
Trade receivables 63.2 50.5 
Other receivables 19.5 8.4 
Total current 82.7 58.9 
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 55.5 47.5 
Past due but not impaired
 – Less than 30 days 3.6 2.2 
 – 30–60 days 1.0 0.5 
 – Greater than 60 days 3.1 0.3 
63.2 50.5 
Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of £5.4m (2015: £4.0m).
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 155.2  50.0 
Short-term deposits 69.0  2.8 
Liquidity facility reserve (note 23) 157.5  157.5 
Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 381.7  210.3 
Bank overdrafts (note 23) (5.8) — 
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 375.9  210.3 
Included within cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits is £109.1m (2015: £34.3m) and £113.0m (2015: £nil) held within securitised bank 
accounts which are only available for use by the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively.
The Greene King secured financing vehicle comprises Greene King Retailing Parent Limited and its subsidiaries and the Spirit secured financing vehicle 
comprises Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited and certain of its subsidiaries.
The liquidity facility reserve is restricted cash as explained in note 23.
Interest receivable on cash and short-term deposits is linked to base rate and is received either monthly or in line with the term of the deposit.
21 Property, plant and equipment held for sale
2016
£m
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment held for sale 2.3 0.4 
At the year end, property, plant and equipment held for sale of £2.3m (2015: £0.4m) represents pubs that are being actively marketed for sale with 
expected completion dates within 1 year. The value of property, plant and equipment held for sale represents the expected net disposal proceeds; 
further details on the valuation of fair value less costs of disposal are held in note 14. The impairment charge on reclassification to assets held for sale 
for these sites was £nil (2015: £nil). GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22 Trade and other payables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade payables 112.2 107.2 
Other payables:
– Other taxation and social security costs 87.2 49.5 
– Accruals and deferred income 194.2 108.9 
– Interest payable 30.4 28.5 
Total current 424.0 294.1 
Other payables 1.5  1.0 
Total non-current 1.5  1.0 
Trade payables and other payables are non-interest bearing. Interest payable is mainly settled monthly, quarterly or semi-annually throughout the year, 
in accordance with the terms of the related financial instrument. Interest payable also includes interest on uncertain tax positions including £5.9m for Sussex.
Prior year accruals and interest payable have been reclassified to more appropriately reflect the nature of the balances recognised.
23 Borrowings
2016 2015
Repayment date
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Total
£m
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts On demand 5.8  —  5.8 — — — 
Liquidity facility loan On demand 157.5  —  157.5 157.5 — 157.5 
Bank loans – floating rate 2018 —  315.0  315.0 — 248.3 248.3 
Secured debt: — 
– Issued by Greene King Finance plc 2005 to 2036 34.3  1,106.6  1,140.9 32.4 1,140.8 1,173.2 
– Issued by Spirit Issuer plc 2015 to 2036 11.1  777.6  788.7 — — —
Obligations under finance leases 2015 to 2084 1.6  20.6  22.2 — — — 
 210.3  2,219.8  2,430.1 189.9 1,389.1 1,579.0 
Bank overdrafts
Overdrafts are utilised for the day-to-day management of cash. The group has facilities of £25.0m (2015: £25.0m) available with interest linked to base rate.
Bank loans – unsecured
The group has a 5 year revolving credit facility of £460m, of which £315.0m (2015: £248.2m) was drawn down at the year end. Any amounts drawn 
down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR, with commitment payments on the undrawn portions. Interest is payable at each renewal date which vary 
in maturity. Although any individual draw-downs are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the group expects to renew this funding and 
immediate renewal is available under the £460m facility until June 2018. Final repayment of the total drawn-down balance is due as one payment on the 
agreement repayment date.
Greene King secured financing vehicle
The group has issued various tranches of bonds in connection with the securitisation of pubs operated by Greene King Retailing Limited. The bonds 
are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc.
The securitised debt issued by Greene King Finance plc consists of the following tranches:
Tranche
Nominal value
(£m)
Carrying value (£m)
1
Interest
Interest
rate (%) 
2
Last
repayment
period Average life 
3
2016 2015
A1 113.8 112.8 122.0 Floating 6.11% 
2
2031 6.3 years
A2 237.9 235.7 240.4 Fixed 5.32% 2031 10.0 years
A3 73.4 72.6 84.0 Floating 6.09% 
2
2021 3.0 years
A4 258.9 257.6 257.4 Fixed 5.11% 2034 12.4 years
A5 242.9 242.9 250.2 Floating 7.76% 
2
2033 10.6 years
B1 120.9 120.0 119.9 Fixed/floating 5.70% 2034 17.2 years
B2 99.9 99.3 99.3 Floating 6.92% 
2
2036 19.3 years
 1,147.7 1,140.9 1,173.2 
1. Carrying value is net of related deferred finance fees.
2. Includes the effect of interest rate swaps.
3. This assumes notes are held until final maturity.
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Borrowings continued
Greene King secured financing vehicle continued
Repayment of nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, over the period shown on the previous page. 
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond. All of the floating rate bonds are fully hedged using interest rate swaps.
The Class A1, A2, A3, A4 and A5 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest payment 
and repayment rights over the Class B bonds. The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security, principal repayment and interest payment.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Greene King Retailing Limited, a group 
company. These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to move cash to other 
group companies.
Liquidity facility
In 2014 the standby liquidity facility provider to the Greene King secured financing vehicle had its short-term credit rating downgraded below the minimum 
prescribed in the facility agreement and as such the group exercised its entitlement to draw the full amount of the facility and hold it in a designated bank 
account. The corresponding balance of £157.5m (2015: £157.5m) held in this bank account is included within cash and cash equivalents. The amounts 
drawn down can only be used for the purpose of meeting the securitisation’s debt service obligations should there ever be insufficient funds available 
from operations to meet such payments. As such these amounts are considered to be restricted cash.
Spirit secured financing vehicle
Following the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group now has various secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc. The secured 
loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various property assets of Spirit Pub Company (Managed) Ltd and Spirit Pub 
Company (Leased) Ltd.
The securitised debt issued by Spirit Issuer plc consist of the following:
Tranche
Nominal value
(£m)
Carrying value (£m)
1
Interest
Interest
rate (%) 
2
Last
repayment
period
Expected
average life 
3
2016 2015
Class A1 29.5 25.9 — Floating 8.37% 
2
2026 9.7 years
Class A2 186.6 181.3 — Floating 9.42% 
2
2029 11.7 years
Class A3 38.6 37.2 — Fixed/floating 6.13% 
2
2019 1.8 years
Class A4 207.7 220.5 — Fixed/floating 6.58% 2025 6.3 years
Class A5 158.5 166.1 — Fixed/floating 6.49% 2032 14.9 years
Class A6 101.3 98.3 — Floating 8.52% 
2
2036 18.8 years
Class A7 58.3 59.4 — Fixed/floating 8.48% 
2
2036 18.8 years
 780.5 788.7 — 
1. Carrying value includes premium arising from fair value adjustment.
2. Includes the effect of interest rate swaps.
3. This assumes notes are held until final maturity.
Repayment of nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above. 
Interest is paid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes.
The debenture bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal.
The debenture is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Spirit Pub Company (Managed) Ltd 
and Spirit Pub Company (Leased) Ltd, group companies. These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of debenture properties 
and restrictions on its ability to move cash to other group companies and utilisation of disposal proceeds.
Obligations under finance leases
Upon acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group acquired leases of property, plant and equipment, where it substantially has all 
the risks and reward of ownership, and which have been classified as finance leases. In the balance sheet a corresponding liability has been included 
as a finance lease obligation.
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
2016 2015
Minimum
 lease
 payments
£m
Present
value
of future
obligations
£m
Minimum
lease
payments
£m
Present
value
of future
obligations
£m
Within 1 year 1.6 1.6 — — 
Within 1 to 5 years 5.3 4.5 — — 
Over 5 years 53.1 16.1 — — 
60.0 22.2 — —  GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Financial instruments
The primary treasury objectives of the group are to identify and manage the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs, 
and provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the group. If appropriate, the group uses financial instruments and derivatives 
to manage these risks.
The principal financial instruments held for the purpose of raising finance for operations are bank loans and overdrafts, secured bonds, cash and short-term 
deposits. Other financial instruments arise directly from the operations of the group, such as trade and other receivables, trade payables and trade loans.
Derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to manage the interest rate risks related to the group’s operations and financing 
sources. No speculative trading in derivative financial instruments is undertaken.
The main risks from the group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The policy for managing each of these risks is set 
out below.
Interest rate risk
Exposure to changes in interest rates on the group’s borrowings is reviewed with regard to the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt. 
The group uses a mixture of fixed and floating interest rate debt with exposure to market interest rate fluctuations primarily arising from the floating 
rate instruments. The group operates a policy that no less than 95% of the overall interest exposure should be at a fixed rate. The group enters into 
interest rate swaps to manage the exposure. Certain swaps are designated as cash flow hedges at the date of contract included within the accounts, 
and tested for effectiveness every 6 months.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its financial instruments which are affected by changes in interest rates. 
This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio of fixed to floating interest rates, and on the basis of the 
hedging instruments in place at 1 May 2016 and 3 May 2015. The analysis relates only to balances at these dates and is not representative of the year 
as a whole. The following assumptions were made:
 – Balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivative financial instruments, as the carrying value of debt and deposits does not change 
as interest rates move.
 – Gains and losses are recognised within equity or the income statement in line with the accounting policies of the group.
 – Cash flow hedges were assumed to be effective or ineffective on the same basis as those as at the year end.
Based on the group’s net position at the year end, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £50.6m (2015: £0.6m) and the group’s OCI by £82.9m (2015: £87.6m).
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes the group to fair 
value interest rate risk such that the group would not significantly benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned costs, 
such as break costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
The percentage of net debt that was fixed as at the year end was 96.1% (2015: 95.5%), in line with the group’s policy of fixing at least 95% of all net debt.
Liquidity risk
The group mitigates liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations combined with bank borrowings and long-term debt. The group’s 
objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts and bank loans. The group also 
monitors the maturity of financial liabilities to avoid the risk of a shortage of funds.
The standard payment terms that the group has with its suppliers is 60 days following month end (2015: 60 days following month end).
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than 1 month. Short-term flexibility 
is achieved through the use of short-term borrowing on the money markets under the group’s revolving credit facility.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 1 May 2016 and 3 May 2015 based on contractual undiscounted 
payments including interest.
Period ended 1 May 2016
Within 1 year
£m
1–2 years
£m
2–5 years
£m
 >5 years 
£m
 Total 
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 208.8  48.0  511.6  1,638.1  2,406.5 
– Interest 92.2  94.3  243.5  671.9  1,101.9 
 301.0  142.3  755.1  2,310.0  3,508.4 
Interest rate swaps settled net 48.9  44.3  134.8  329.7  557.7 
 349.9  186.6  889.9  2,639.7  4,066.1 
Trade payables and accruals 318.3  —  —  —  318.3 
Finance lease obligations 1.6  1.6  3.7  53.1  60.0 
Off-market contract liabilities 2.7  2.2  27.7  —  32.6 
 672.5  190.4  921.3  2,692.8  4,477.0 
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk continued
Period ended 3 May 2015
Within 1 year
£m
1–2 years
£m
2–5 years
£m
 >5 years 
£m
 Total 
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 190.4  34.8  366.7  996.3  1,588.2 
– Interest 55.2  57.4  160.0  416.1  688.7 
 245.6  92.2  526.7  1,412.4  2,276.9 
Interest rate swaps settled net 28.2  23.7  53.7  162.5  268.1 
 273.8  115.9  580.4  1,574.9  2,545.0 
Trade payables and accruals 234.3  —  —  —  234.3 
Finance lease obligations —  —  —  —  — 
Off-market contract liabilities —  —  —  —  — 
 508.1  115.9  580.4  1,574.9  2,779.3 
Credit risk 
Financial assets include trade loans, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. Credit risk is the risk of default by the counterparty to 
discharge their obligation and the maximum exposure of the group is the carrying amount of these instruments. The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents 
is limited by investment of surplus funds with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
The policy for third party trading is that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to regular credit verification procedures. 
Receivable balances are also monitored on an ongoing basis and provided against where deemed necessary to limit the exposure to bad debts 
to a non-significant level.
There is no significant collateral held and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting
At 1 May 2016 the group held 2 (2015: 3) interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of £100m (2015: £135m), designated as a hedge of the cash 
flow interest rate risk of the £315.0m (2015: £248.3m) drawn down from the revolving credit facility in the year. The interest rate swaps are held on the 
balance sheet as a fair value liability of £34.6m (2015: £32.8m). The cash flows occurred quarterly based a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR.
At 1 May 2016 the group held 5 (2015: 5) interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of £530.0m (2015: £558.1m), entered into as part of the 
securitisation and subsequent securitisation taps. A fair value liability of £214.6m (2015: £204.1m) has been recognised on the balance sheet in respect 
of these contracts which are designated cash flow hedges against £530.0m (2015: £558.1m) of variable rate bonds, receiving a variable rate of interest 
based on LIBOR and paying a weighted average fixed rate of 7.0% (2015: 7.0%). The contract maturity dates range from September 2021 to March 2036. 
Retrospective quantitative hedge effectiveness testing is performed and the bonds and interest rate swaps have the same critical terms excluding credit risk.
Changes in cash flow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective. The interest rate swaps have 
been assessed as highly effective during the period and are expected to remain highly effective over their remaining contract lives. The ineffectiveness 
amounting to a £0.3m gain (2015: £0.8m loss) has been recognised within finance costs/income.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting
Interest rate swap agreements have been acquired as part of the business combination with Spirit Pub Company which swap the LIBOR interest rate to 
a fixed rate of 6.681% on the Class A1, Class A2 and Class A6 notes and, after their respective step-up dates, 4.555% on the Class A3, Class A4, Class A5 
and Class A7 notes. The swaps were deemed ineffective hedges and therefore do not qualify for hedge accounting, with movements in their fair value 
being recognised in the income statement. The interest rate swaps are held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of £191.7m (2015: £nil). The cash 
flows occurred quarterly based a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR.
The fair value movement from acquisition splits into cash payments made of £21.7m recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs net of amortisation of 
fair value on acquisition of £12.3m. The remainder of the fair value movement is recognised as a charge in exceptional finance costs amounting to £39.1m.
Where the nominal value of the derivative exceeds that of the related secured note (for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes) the 
group will seek to eliminate the over-hedging where this is financially practicable. At 1 May 2016, there were £5.7m of interest swaps outstanding on 
cancelled floating rate notes which relate to the Spirit secured debt.
Fair values
Set out in the table below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the group’s financial instruments.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction 
between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
Cash and cash equivalents (comprising cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits) – approximates to the carrying amount stated in the accounts.
Trade receivables – approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Financial assets – these are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method and fair value is deemed to be the same as this.
Overdrafts – approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case of the securitised debt; approximates to the carrying amount in the case of the floating 
rate bank loans and other variable rate borrowings. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
24 Financial instruments continued
Fair values continued
Interest rate swaps – calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date and adjusting, where appropriate, 
for the group’s and counterparty's credit risk. The changes in credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives 
designated in hedge relationships.
Trade payables and accruals – approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Finance lease obligations and off-market contract liabilities (excludes off-market lease liability) – estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates 
currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Hierarchical
classification
Fair 
value
2016
£m
Carrying
value
2016
£m
Fair 
value
2015
£m
Carrying
value
2015
 £m 
Financial liabilities
Overdraft Level 2 5.8  5.8 — —
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
– Secured debt:
 Issued by Greene King Finance plc Level 1 1,158.0  1,140.9  1,247.0  1,173.2 
 Issued by Spirit Issuer plc Level 1 757.3  788.7 — —
– Floating rate bank loans Level 2 315.0  315.0  248.3  248.3 
– Liquidity facility loan Level 2 157.5  157.5  157.5  157.5 
Interest rate swaps Level 2 440.9  440.9  236.9  236.9 
Trade payables and accruals Level 2 318.3  318.3  216.1  216.1 
Finance lease obligations Level 2 22.2  22.2  —  — 
Off-market contract liabilities Level 2 22.6  22.6  —  — 
Financial assets
Cash Level 2 (224.2) (224.2) (52.8) (52.8)
Trade receivables Level 2 (63.2) (63.2) (50.5) (50.5)
Liquidity facility reserve Level 2 (157.5) (157.5) (157.5) (157.5)
Financial assets Level 3 (26.6) (26.6) (30.4) (30.4)
Carrying values are stated net of any deferred finance fees which amounted to £6.9m (2015: £9.2m). The carrying values of the secured debt issued 
by Spirit Issuer plc includes premium arising from fair value adjustment of £8.2m (2015: £nil).
Hierarchical classification of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
IFRS 13 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value. 
The classification uses the following three-level hierarchy:
Level 1 – unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 – techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
During the periods ending 1 May 2016 and 3 May 2015 there were no transfers between level 1, 2, or 3 fair value measurements.
Capital risk management
The group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining a strong credit rating and a core level of debt which optimises the weighted average cost 
of capital (WACC) and shareholder value.
A number of mechanisms are used to manage net debt and equity levels (together referred to as capital) as disclosed on the balance sheet, as 
appropriate in light of economic and trading conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment 
to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the period.
The group monitors capital using interest cover and several other measures, including fixed charge cover, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and free cash 
flow debt service coverage. Interest cover is calculated by dividing operating profit before exceptional items by net interest on debt before exceptional 
items (note 7). For the period to 1 May 2016 interest cover was 3.3x (2015: 3.0x). All covenants in relation to the securitisation vehicles and bank loans 
have been fully complied with. The board’s dividend policy is to maintain a minimum dividend cover of two times adjusted basic earnings per share. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 Off-market contract liabilities
Off-market
liabilities
£m
At 4 May 2014 and 3 May 2015 —
Acquisitions (note 17) 312.7 
Unwinding of discount element of provisions 12.2 
Utilised during the period (25.0)
At 1 May 2016 299.9 
Off-market contract liabilities are analysed between current and non-current as follows
1 May
2016
£m
3 May
2015
£m
Current 22.4 —
Non-current 277.5 —
299.9 —
Off-market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition. For leases 
where the current rentals are below market terms, the related asset is considered to be included within the residual value of the leasehold pub. For 
other acquired pubs an off-market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the present 
value of future market rate rentals. The liability unwinds against the rental expense so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms 
over an average period of 19 years. The remainder of the balance held relates to an unfavourable guarantee contract.
26 Provisions
VAT
provision
£m
Property 
leases
£m
Total
£m
At 4 May 2014 — 6.5 6.5 
Unwinding of discount element of provisions — 0.4 0.4 
Provided for during the period — 0.5 0.5 
Utilised during the period — (0.8) (0.8)
At 3 May 2015 — 6.6 6.6 
Acquisitions (note 17) 23.0 7.4 30.4 
Unwinding of discount element of provisions — 0.4 0.4 
Provided for during the period 0.4 — 0.4 
Utilised during the period — (0.4) (0.4)
At 1 May 2016 23.4 14.0 37.4 
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
VAT
provision
1 May
2016
£m
Property 
leases
1 May
2016
£m
Total
1 May
2016
£m
VAT
provision
3 May
2015
£m
Property 
leases
3 May
2015
£m
Total
3 May
2015
£m
Current 23.4 1.3 24.7 — 0.5 0.5 
Non-current — 12.7 12.7 — 6.1 6.1 
23.4 14.0 37.4 — 6.6 6.6 
Property leases
The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss making premises as well as dilapidation requirements. 
Payments are expected to be ongoing on these properties for an average of 15 years (2015: 15 years).
VAT provision
During a previous period Spirit received VAT refunds of £7.0m and £17.9m from HMRC in respect of gaming machines following a ruling involving 
The Rank Group plc (Rank) that the application of VAT contravened the EU’s principal of fiscal neutrality. HMRC successfully appealed the decision 
in October 2013 and Spirit was therefore required to repay the VAT refund of £7.0m and associated interest of £1.7m. However, HMRC did not seek 
to recover the VAT refund of £17.9m and associated interest of £5.5m because it had accepted a guarantee from Spirit that it would only repay this VAT 
if Rank’s litigation is finally determined in HMRC’s favour. Rank’s latest appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court in July 2015 and the group is currently 
awaiting the outcome of related litigation. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
27 Share capital
2016 2015
Number
of issued
shares
m
Share
capital
£m
Number
of issued
shares
m
Share
capital
£m
Called up, allotted and fully paid
At beginning of period 219.7 27.5 219.0 27.4 
Issue of share capital – Spirit acquisition 89.1 11.1 — — 
Issue of share capital – share options exercised 0.4 — 0.7 0.1 
At end of period 309.2 38.6 219.7 27.5 
Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
28 Reserves
Share premium account
Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being the difference 
between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Capital redemption reserve 
Capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase and cancellation of own share capital, and represents the nominal amount of the share capital cancelled.
Hedging reserve
Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the group’s derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line with the 
accounting policy disclosed in note 1. Amounts recycled to income are included within finance costs in the income statement.
Own shares 
Own shares relates to shares held in treasury, held by the employee benefit trust or purchased to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus 
scheme. At 1 May 2016 nil shares (2015: 0.13m) were held in treasury, 0.04m shares (2015: 0.61m) were held by the employee benefit trust and nil 
(2015: nil) were held to fulfil awards under the deferred share bonus scheme. The market value at 1 May 2016 of the treasury shares was £nil (2015: £1.1m), 
of the shares held by the employee benefit trust was £0.3m (2015: £5.0m) and of the shares held for the deferred share bonus scheme was £nil (2015: £nil). 
The employee benefit trust is independently managed and has purchased shares in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential 
awards under the long-term incentive plan.
At the year end nil (2015: nil) treasury shares and nil (2015: 0.31m) shares in the employee benefit trust were allocated to meet awards under the long-term 
incentive plan.
A transfer of £4.7m (2015: £5.6m) from own shares to retained earnings has been made to reflect transfers to satisfy awards under the long-term 
incentive plan and options exercised under the executive share option plan and reflects the weighted average cost of own shares.
During the period nil (2015: nil) shares were repurchased at a cost of £nil (2015: £nil) to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus scheme 
with nil (2015: 0.04m) shares transferred to individuals to satisfy awards. The employee benefit trust purchased nil shares (2015: 0.5m) at a cost of £nil 
(2015: £4.2m) and 0.57m (2015: 0.82m) shares were transferred to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan.
Goodwill
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions made prior to May 1998 amounts to £89.7m.
29 Working capital and non-cash movements
2016
£m
2015
£m
Increase in inventories (0.2) (1.6)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 4.9 (1.4)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (28.7) 16.8 
Decrease in off-market contract liabilities (25.0) — 
Decrease in provisions — (0.3)
Other non-cash movement 3.1 —
Share-based payment expense 6.2 3.7 
Difference between defined benefit pension contributions paid and amounts charged (10.4) (7.0)
Exceptional items (25.0) (5.6)
Working capital and other movements (75.1) 4.6  Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 Analysis of and movements in net debt
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits
1
224.2 52.8 
Liquidity facility reserve
1
157.5 157.5 
Overdrafts (5.8) — 
Current portion of borrowings (47.0) (32.4)
Liquidity facility loan (157.5) (157.5)
Non-current portion of borrowings (2,219.8) (1,389.1)
Closing net debt (2,048.4) (1,368.7)
1. Included in cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
Movement in net debt
2016
£m
2015
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 165.6  7.9 
Proceeds – advances of borrowings (65.0) —
Repayment of principal  44.0  61.1 
Debt acquired through acquisitions (note 17) (822.0) —
Decrease in net debt arising from cash flows (677.4) 69.0 
Other non-cash movements (2.3) (2.1)
Decrease in net debt (679.7) 66.9 
Opening net debt (1,368.7) (1,435.6)
Closing net debt (2,048.4) (1,368.7)
31 Financial commitments
The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of plant and machinery. The terms of the leases vary but typically 
on inception a property lease will be for a period of up to 30 years and plant and machinery will be for up to 6 years. Most property leases have 
an upwards-only rent review based on open market rents at the time of the review.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
2016
 £m 
2015
 £m 
Within 1 year 81.9 12.9 
Between 1 and 5 years 315.2 43.9 
After 5 years 1,281.7 134.2 
1,678.8 191.0 
Operating leases for which an off-market liability has been recognised on acquisition has been included in the above.
The group leases part of its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants. The majority of lease agreements have terms of between 
6 months and 25 years and are classified for accounting purposes as operating leases. Most of the leases with terms of over 3 years include provision 
for rent reviews on either a 3 year or 5 year basis.
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2016
 £m 
2015
 £m 
Within 1 year 47.0 28.5 
Between 1 and 5 years 145.0 81.8 
After 5 years 133.1 54.6 
325.1 164.9 
Future minimum lease rentals include £1.5m (2015: £2.9m) receivable in respect of non-cancellable subleases. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
32 Related party transactions
No transactions have been entered into with related parties during the period.
Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group, and as such are deemed to be related parties. 
The results and financial position of the entities have been consolidated.
Compensation of directors and other key management personnel of the group
2016
 £m 
2015
 £m 
Short-term employee benefits (including national insurance contributions) 4.9 4.6 
Post-employment pension and medical benefits 0.5 0.6 
Termination benefits 1.0 0.4 
Share-based payments 2.3 2.1 
8.7 7.7 
Key management personnel
Key management personnel are deemed to be those employees who are directors of Greene King plc or its subsidiaries.
Directors’ interests in an employee share incentive plan
Details of the options held by executive members of the board of directors are included in the remuneration report. No options have been granted 
to the non-executive members of the board of directors under this scheme.
33 Post balance sheet events
Final dividend
A final dividend of 23.6p per share (2015: 21.8p) amounting to a dividend of £73.0m (2015: £67.1m) was proposed by the directors at their meeting 
on 28 June 2016. These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable.
Financing
On 26 May 2016 the group issued a £300m A6 bond at a coupon of 4.0643%, taking the outstanding nominal value of bonds issued by Greene King Finance 
plc to £1,447.7m. These bonds are secured against 1,543 pubs in the Greene King estate which had a market value of £2,178.0m and a carrying value of 
£1,637.9m. Proceeds of £116.6m were used to meet the mark to market liability in respect of interest swaps with a nominal value of £302.9m.
34 Contingent liabilities
The group has provided guarantees totalling £0.8m at 1 May 2016 (2015: £1.0m) in respect of free trade customers’ bank borrowings. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note
As at
1 May 2016
 £m 
As at
3 May 2015
 £m 
Fixed assets
Investments 39 3,381.9 2,597.9
Current assets
Debtors
Amounts due from subsidiaries 270.7 68.3
Prepayment — 2.1
Cash — 11.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Bank overdraft (4.4) —
Derivative financial instruments 41 — (1.0)
Income tax payable (6.4) (1.5)
Other creditors 40 (1,921.1) (1,722.9)
Net current liabilities (1,661.2) (1,643.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,720.7 954.6
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 41 (315.0) (248.2)
Derivative financial instruments 41 — (0.2)
Net assets 1,405.7 706.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 42 38.6 27.5
Share premium account 43 261.0 259.3
Merger reserve 43 752.0 —
Revaluation reserve 2.5 2.5
Hedging reserve 43 — (1.2)
Other reserve 43 93.9 93.9
Own shares 43 (0.2) (4.9)
Retained earnings 257.9 329.1
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,405.7 706.2
Signed on behalf of the board on 28 June 2016.
P Yea  R Anand 
Director  Director 
Company balance sheet
As at 1 May 2016
Registered number: 24511 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Called up
share capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve
£m
Own
shares
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 4 May 2014 27.4 256.6 — 2.5 (1.9) 93.9 (6.3) 169.1 541.3 
Profit for the period — — — — — — — 225.3 225.3 
Other comprehensive income:
Cash flow hedges – loss taken 
to equity — — — — 0.7 — — — 0.7 
Total comprehensive income — — — — 0.7 — — 225.3 226.0 
Issue of ordinary share capital 0.1 2.7 — — — — — — 2.8 
Release of shares — — — — — — 5.6 (5.6) — 
Repurchase of shares — — — — — — (4.2) — (4.2)
Share-based payments — — — — — — — 3.1 3.1 
Equity dividends paid — — — — — — — (62.8) (62.8)
At 3 May 2015 27.5 259.3 — 2.5 (1.2) 93.9 (4.9) 329.1 706.2 
Profit for the period — — — — — — — 22.7 22.7
Other comprehensive income:
Cash flow hedges – loss taken 
to equity — — — — 1.2 — — — 1.2 
Total comprehensive income — — — — 1.2 — — 22.7 23.9 
Issue of ordinary share capital 11.1 1.7 752.0 — — — — — 764.8 
Transaction costs for share issue — — — — — — — (2.1) (2.1)
Release of shares — — — — — — 4.7 (4.7) — 
Share-based payments — — — — — — — 6.2 6.2 
Equity dividends paid — — — — — — — (93.3) (93.3)
At 1 May 2016 38.6 261.0 752.0 2.5 — 93.9 (0.2) 257.9  1,405.7
Company statement of changes in equity
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the company accounts
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
35 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting and presentation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements as issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC). Therefore in the period ended 1 May 2016, the company has transitioned from reporting under UK GAAP to reporting 
under FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. The financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101. This transition 
is not considered to have had a material impact on the financial statements.
The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:
 – the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows
 – the requirements of IAS 8 IFRSs Issued but not Effective
 – the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments
 – the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
 – the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements
 – the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, to present key management personnel compensation and intragroup transactions including 
wholly owned subsidiaries
 – the requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, to present certain comparative information and capital management disclosures
 – the requirements of IFRS 1, to present an opening statement of financial position when adopting FRS 101 for the first time
There were no transitional adjustments in the transition from UK GAAP to FRS 101 in the opening balance sheet as at 5 May 2014, and therefore 
no third balance sheet has been prepared.
The basis for all of the above exemptions is because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which 
the entity is consolidated.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment and held as fixed assets on the balance sheet. The carrying value of investments 
is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. On transition to FRS 101, 
the previous GAAP carrying amount at the date of transition was regarded as deemed cost.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are de-recognised when the 
company no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows attributable to 
the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement is at fair 
value determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting the gain or loss arising on 
the movement in fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the company accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
35 Accounting policies continued
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include the company’s 
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged. The company also 
documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether it has been, and is 
likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classified as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability) or cash flow (hedging the variability 
in cash flows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction). The company uses its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. 
For these cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective 
portion is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction 
affects the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, amounts previously recognised 
in equity are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects profit or loss. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee benefit trust. The company has an employee benefit trust for the granting 
of shares to applicable employees. 
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also 
recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds and the original cost being taken to retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised 
in the financial statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares. 
The fair value of the shares and options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted. No account is taken 
in the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions (service and performance), other than market conditions (performance linked to the price of the 
shares of the company). Any other conditions that are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered 
non-vesting conditions. Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value. The 
fair value of shares and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which 
the vesting conditions are fulfilled ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest. The periodic charge or credit 
is the movement in the cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions have not been met. Where 
awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies 
that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The company bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and 
other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
No estimates and judgments were considered to be significant.
36 Profit for the period
No income statement is presented for the company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The profit after tax for the period is 
£22.7m (2015: £225.3m).
37 Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration in respect of the company audit was £16,500 (2015: £16,500). The figures for auditor’s remuneration for the company required 
by regulation 5(1)(b) of the Companies Regulations 2008 are not presented here as the group accounts comply with this regulation on a consolidated basis. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38 Directors’ remuneration and employee costs
Details of directors’ remuneration are contained in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 59 to 64. The company has no employees other 
than directors and the directors are not remunerated through this company. Details of share options issued by the company are given in note 8.
39 Investments
Investments in
subsidiaries
£m
Loans to
subsidiaries
£m
Total
£m
Cost at 4 May 2014 1,579.8 1,038.2 2,618.0 
Share-based payment awards to employees of subsidiaries 3.1 — 3.1 
Cost at 3 May 2015 1,582.9 1,038.2 2,621.1 
Additions 777.8 — 777.8 
Share-based payment awards to employees of subsidiaries 6.2 — 6.2 
Cost at 1 May 2016 2,366.9 1,038.2 3,405.1 
Impairment at 4 May 2014 — — — 
Impairment of non-trading subsidiaries (23.2) — (23.2)
Impairment at 3 May 2015 and 1 May 2016 (23.2) — (23.2)
NBV at 1 May 2016 2,343.7 1,038.2 3,381.9 
NBV at 3 May 2015 1,559.7 1,038.2 2,597.9 
NBV at 4 May 2014 1,579.8 1,038.2 2,618.0 
Principal subsidiaries
For a full list of all subsidiaries see note 16.
40 Other creditors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accruals 2.3 16.7 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,918.8 1,706.2 
1,921.1 1,722.9 
Interest on amounts owed to and from group undertakings accrues at a rate of LIBOR + 1.0% and is payable at interim and year-end dates.
41 Borrowings
2016 2015
Within
one year
£m
After
one year
£m
Total
£m
Within
one year
£m
After
one year
£m
Total
£m
Bank loans – floating rate — 315.0 315.0 — 248.2 248.2 
At 1 May 2016 the company held 1 (2015: 2) interest rate swap contract to hedge cash flow interest rate risk related to floating rate debt. The swap 
had a nominal value of £40m (2015: £75m) and is held on the balance sheet as a net fair value liability of £nil (2015: £1.2m). The term of the swap ends 
June 2016.
Bank loans due after 1 year are repayable as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Due between 2 and 5 years 315.0 248.2
Although the drawdown is repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, immediate renewal is available until June 2018 (2015: June 2018) for 
the facility. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the company accounts continued
For the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2016
42 Allotted and issued share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid
2016
£m
2015
£m
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each
309.2m shares (2015: 219.7m) 38.6 27.5 
Further information on share capital is given in note 27. Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
43 Reserves
Share premium account
Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being the difference 
between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Other reserve
The other reserve consists of a £3.3m (2015: £3.3m) capital redemption reserve arising from the purchase of own share capital and £90.6m (2015: £90.6m) 
arising from the transfer of revalued assets to other group companies and will only be realised when the related assets are disposed of by the group.
Hedging reserve
Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the company’s derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line 
with the accounting policy disclosed in note 35.
Own shares
Own shares relates to shares held in treasury and by the employee benefit trust. Movement in own shares is described in note 28.
44 Contingent liabilities
The company has provided a guarantee to the Greene King Pension Scheme in respect of the payment obligations to the scheme of its subsidiaries 
Greene King Services Limited and Belhaven Brewery Company Limited. In the event that these obligations are not met the company will become liable 
for amounts due to the pension scheme; such an event is not considered probable.
Details of the group’s pension schemes are included in note 9.
45 Post balance sheet events
Final dividend
A final dividend of 23.6p per share (2015: 21.8p) amounting to a dividend of £73.0m (2015: £67.1m) was proposed by the directors at their meeting 
on 28 June 2016. These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 123
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Income statement
2016
(52 weeks)
 £m 
2015
(52 weeks)
 £m 
2014
(53 weeks)
 £m 
2013 
3
(52 weeks)
 £m 
2012 
3
(52 weeks)
 £m 
Revenue 2,073.0  1,315.3  1,301.6  1,194.7  1,140.4 
Operating profit before exceptionals 392.2  256.2  265.6  248.2  236.2 
Profit before taxation and exceptionals 256.5  168.5  173.1  158.2  147.2 
Profit before taxation 189.8  118.2  105.2  111.0  125.1 
Basic earnings per share
1
64.4p 40.9p 44.2p 44.1p 46.0p
Adjusted basic earnings per share
1
69.9p 61.0p 61.4p 55.6p 51.3p
Adjusted dividend per share
1
32.1p 29.8p 28.4p 26.6p 24.8p
Adjusted operating profit/revenue 18.9% 19.5% 20.4% 20.8% 20.7%
Adjusted tax expense/profit before tax 19.3% 20.9% 23.0% 24.0% 25.0%
Adjusted interest cover (times) 2.9  2.9  3.0  2.9  2.7 
Adjusted dividend cover (times)
2
 2.2  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1 
Balance sheet
£m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Property, plant and equipment 3,671.3  2,235.4  2,169.7  2,211.1  2,191.3 
Intangibles 174.6  — — — — 
Goodwill 1,121.9  700.9  703.8  724.8  729.3 
Financial assets 26.6  30.4  32.8  34.1  39.0 
Property, plant and equipment held for sale 2.3  0.4  81.7  8.4  6.2 
Working capital (303.7) (236.4) (198.6) (174.2) (168.6)
Derivatives (440.9) (236.9) (172.4) (239.2) (200.8)
Off-market contract liabilities (299.9) — — —  — 
Provisions (30.2) (96.2) (118.7) (143.1) (157.9)
Net debt (2,048.4) (1,368.7) (1,435.6) (1,450.4) (1,493.2)
Net assets  1,873.6  1,028.9  1,062.7  971.5  945.3 
Gearing 109% 133% 135% 149% 158%
Cash flow and investment
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
EBITDA before exceptionals 496.9  319.0  329.7  306.5  292.0 
Cash inflow from operations 421.8 323.6 325.2 312.5 282.0
Interest, tax and dividends (270.3) (189.1) (179.6) (170.7) (167.1)
Capital expenditure (194.1) (160.5) (169.6) (123.6) (126.8)
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 82.6  94.0  38.4  28.0  29.9 
Trade loans and investments 0.7  2.4  1.3  3.0  2.2 
Acquisitions — — —  (0.9) (70.8)
Other (720.4) (3.5) (0.9) (5.5) (32.4)
(Increase)/decrease in debt (679.7) 66.9  14.8  42.8  (83.0)
1. Adjusted earnings per share, operating profit, taxation, interest cover and dividend cover exclude the effect of exceptional items.
2. 2014 assumes adjusted earnings per share on a 52 week basis.
3. 2012–2013 restated for the impact of IAS 19(R).
Group financial record GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 124
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 11 August 2016
Record date for final dividend 12 August 2016
Annual general meeting 9 September 2016
Payment of final dividend 12 September 2016
Announcement of interim results 30 November 2016
Payment of interim dividend January 2017
Preliminary announcement of the 2016/17 results June 2017
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone: 0871 664 0300
1
Fax: 01484 601512
Email: shareholder.services@capita.co.uk
Website: www.capitaassetservices.com 
1.  Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, 
Monday to Friday.
E-communications
To register to receive shareholder communications from the company 
electronically, visit www.greeneking-shares.com and either log in or click 
on ‘register new user’ and follow the instructions.
By registering your email address you will receive emails with a web link 
to information posted on the company's website, including the report 
and accounts, notice of meetings and other information communicated 
to shareholders.
Indirect investors' information rights
Beneficial owners of shares held on their behalf by a different registered 
holder now have certain information rights regarding Greene King. They 
have the right to ask their registered holder to nominate them to receive 
all non-personalised information distributed to shareholders, in accordance 
with the provisions of section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
Should you wish to be nominated to receive information from Greene King 
directly, please contact your registered holder, who will need to notify our 
registrars, Capita Asset Services, accordingly. Please note that, once nominated, 
beneficial owners of shares must continue to direct all communications 
regarding those shares to the registered holder of those shares rather 
than to the registrars or to Greene King directly. 
Company secretary and registered office
Lindsay Keswick
Westgate Brewery 
Bury St Edmunds
Suffolk IP33 1QT
Telephone: 01284 763 222
Fax: 01284 706 502
Website: www.greeneking.co.uk 
Share dealing services
Stocktrade
Telephone: 0131 240 0400 
Redmayne Bentley
Moseley's Farm Offices
Fornham All Saints
Bury St Edmunds
Suffolk IP28 6JY
Telephone:  01284 723 761
Capita Share Dealing Services
Telephone: +44 (0)371 664 0445
1
 
Website: www.capitadeal.com
1.  Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider. 
Calls from outside the UK are charged at the applicable international rate. 
Lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Capital gains tax
For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of the 
ordinary shares on 31 March 1982, after adjustment for the capitalisation 
issues in 1980 and 1982, was 72.5625p. After take-up of the rights issue 
in July 1996, the March 1982 value becomes 129.6875p. With the take-up 
of the rights issue in May 2009, the March 1982 value becomes 182.3046875p.
Shareholder vouchers
We are pleased to offer shareholders with 100 or more shares in the 
company a booklet of discount vouchers for use across our retail pubs 
and restaurants. Those holding shares in their own name will receive the 
vouchers directly. If you hold shares in a nominee account please contact 
your nominee provider to obtain a set of vouchers. Unfortunately, we are 
not able to deal with individual requests for vouchers from underlying 
beneficiaries. Please visit www.findaproperpub.co.uk for details of the 
participating outlets.
Unsolicited communication
Please note that we will never contact our shareholders by telephone. 
If you receive an unsolicited call from anyone purporting to be from 
or calling on behalf of Greene King, please do not disclose any of your 
personal details to the caller. You can find out more information about 
investment scams and how to protect yourself and report any suspicious 
telephone calls from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) by visiting 
their website (www.fca.org.uk) or contacting them on 0800 111 6768. 
The FCA advises that if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
Corporate advisers
Financial advisers
Lazard & Co. Limited
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Joint stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House
1 Great Winchester Street
London EC2N 3EQ
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
Solicitors
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
Shareholder information G lo s s a r y
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper. Park is an EMAS 
certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified 
to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste 
associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed 
on Arcoprint, a paper certified by the FSC
®
. The pulp used in this product 
is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
EBITDA – Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and 
exceptional items. Calculated by taking operating profit before exceptional 
items and adding back depreciation.
Fixed charge cover – Calculated by dividing EBITDAR (operating profit 
before depreciation, rent and exceptional items) less maintenance capex 
by the sum of interest and rent.
Free cash flow – Movement in net debt due to operating cash flows after 
interest payments, tax payments, core capex and dividends, but excluding 
exceptional items, acquisitions, disposals and share movements.
LFL – Like for like. LFL performance is calculated against a comparable 
period in the prior year for pubs that were trading in both periods. Figures 
for the Spirit business and combined group business therefore take account 
of Spirit trading prior to the acquisition date. Pub Company like-for-like sales 
include revenue from the sale of drink, food and accommodation.
NPS – Net promoter score. Calculated by asking customers how likely they 
are to recommend the pub on a scale of 0–10 (10 being the most favourable). 
The percentage of responses where the score is 0–6 (brand detractors) is 
subtracted from the percentage of responses where the score is 9 or 10 
(brand promoters) to give the NPS. Scores of 7 or 8 (passive responses) 
are ignored.
OBV – Own-brewed volume. The volume of beer brewed at our 
Greene King and Belhaven breweries sold in the period.
ROCE – Return on capital employed. Calculated by dividing pre-exceptional 
operating profit by average capital employed. Capital employed is defined as 
total net assets excluding deferred tax balances, derivatives, post-employment 
liabilities and net debt.
Core capex – Cash outflow in respect of ongoing development and 
maintenance capital investment on pubs in the group’s estate. Core capex 
excludes integration capex, investment in the brand optimisation programme 
and investments in single-site acquisitions and new-build developments. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
Greene King plc
Registered in England No. 24511
Registered office 
Westgate Brewery 
Bury St Edmunds 
Suffolk 
IP33 1QT
Telephone: 01284 763222 
www.greeneking.co.uk
