 Greggs plc Annual Report  
and Accounts 2015
Growth
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Greggs is a much-loved and trusted 
brand. We believe we can continue  
to build on our strong bakery 
heritage to compete successfully  
in the food-on-the-go market.  
Our offer is differentiated by the  
fact that we freshly prepare food  
and drinks in our shops each day,  
to ensure our customers enjoy high 
quality and great value for money.
Strategic Report  01-33
Highlights 01
Greggs at a glance 02
Chairman’s statement 04
Strategy 06
Strategy in action 08
Chief Executive’s report 16
Financial review 20
Key financial performance indicators 22
Principal risks and uncertainties 24
Social responsibility 26
Directors’ Report 34-66
Board of Directors and Secretary 34
Report of the Directors 36
Governance 38
Audit Committee report 44
Directors’ remuneration report 49
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Accounts 67-100
Independent auditor’s report 67
Consolidated income statement 70
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 70
Balance sheets 71
Statements of changes in equity 72
Statements of cashflows 74
Notes to the consolidated accounts 75
T en-year history 100
 
Financial calendar IBC
Secretary and advisers IBC
  01 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Great tasting  
fresh food
We freshly prepare  
food which is both  
great tasting and  
value for money.
A great shopping 
experience
We are taking Greggs  
to where our customers  
are, providing them  
with a great shopping 
environment and fulfilling 
more of their needs by 
focusing on food-on-the-
go at all times of the day.
Simple and efficient 
operations
We are realising the 
significant efficiency  
and capacity benefits  
to be gained within  
our existing network  
in order to develop 
simple and efficient 
operations.
Improvement  
through change
We are investing  
in our processes and 
systems platform to 
enable us to compete 
more effectively in the 
fast-moving food-on- 
the-go market.
 
Turn to page 08 to find out more.
 
Turn to page 10 to find out more.
 
Turn to page 12 to find out more.
 
Turn to page 14 to find out more.
Strategic progress
In 2015 Greggs made further progress in executing the 
strategic plan outlined in 2013, which focused the business 
on the growing food-on-the-go market. This is bringing 
about significant changes to the quality and relevance of  
our product offer as well as the positioning and condition  
of the Greggs shop estate. 
We are also two years into a significant change programme, 
with ongoing investment in processes and systems, 
delivering benefits in terms of efficiency and greater agility, 
both essential in such a competitive marketplace. The result 
has been another excellent financial performance, founded 
on strong like-for-like sales growth and leveraging the 
vertical integration of the Greggs business model.
Financial highlights
£836m
Total sales +5.2%*
4.7%
 C o mp an y - m an a g e d 
shop like-for-like sales
£73m
Pre-tax profit
**
 +25.4%
55.8p
Diluted EPS
**
 +28.6%
48.6p
Dividend per share, 
including special dividend  
of 20p per share
26.8%
Return on capital employed
 More detail: Financial review P20-P21
* Based on comparing 52 weeks’ sales. 
** Before exceptional items in 2014.
 More detail: Strategy P06-P15 02 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Bakeries
Distribution centre
Manufacturing centre of excellence for savouries
Shops
Greggs at a glance
With 1,698 shops, 12 bakeries  
and 20,000 employees who serve 
millions of customers each week, 
Greggs is the UK’s leading bakery 
food-on-the-go retailer. 03 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Our business model
Our vertically-integrated operations
We own and operate a vertically-
integrated supply chain, from 
production through distribution to 
point-of-sale. This means we can  
make great tasting, high quality 
bakery food at great prices offering 
value for our customers.
Our target market 
Food on-the-go is a growing market. 
Greggs is a brand with broad appeal, 
attracting customers of all types and 
we have the opportunity to fulfil more 
of their needs by focusing on great 
tasting food-on-the-go, at all times  
of the day. 
Our market locations 
Convenience is key in the food-on-
the-go market and we continue to 
open and relocate shops to ensure 
that our estate is well positioned.  
A high proportion of our openings  
are in areas away from traditional high 
streets as we diversify our portfolio in 
line with market trends. Working with 
franchise partners, we have extended 
the Greggs offer to previously 
inaccessible travel, workplace and 
other convenience locations.
Our vertically-integrated operations
Our target markets
Our market locations
Our offering to customers
Our vision
… is to be a winning brand  
in the food-on-the-go market. 
How will we achieve this?
Our people... are what makes our 
business successful. We aim to provide 
them with a great place to work, where 
they feel valued.
Our food... is made with high quality, 
wholesome ingredients. Our daily-fresh 
sandwiches and freshly-baked savouries 
ensure that we deliver food that is both 
high quality and great value for money  
to our customers.
Our shops... are being remodelled and 
relocated to meet the demands of busy 
food-on-the-go customers.
Our vertically-integrated supply 
network... currently comprises 12 
bakeries, one distribution centre and one 
manufacturing centre of excellence for 
savouries. This allows us to make and 
deliver great value, fresh products to our 
shops every day.
Our values... commit us to being 
enthusiastic and supportive in all that  
we do, open, honest and appreciative, 
treating everyone with fairness, 
consideration and respect.
Our commitment to sharing the 
benefits of our success... is deep-
rooted and was cemented by the 
establishment of the Greggs Foundation 
in 1987. Along with our values it forms 
the bedrock of our approach to social 
responsibility.
Central
support
Manufacturing Delivery 
logistics
Shops
Food-on-the-go All consumer
demographics
United Kingdom
Shopping Work Travel Leisure
High quality 
food and 
drinks
Great value Convenient 
shops
Great service Happy 
customers 04 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
In 2015 Greggs delivered an excellent operational and financial 
performance whilst also making good progress against its 
longer-term strategic plan. Trading conditions have continued 
to be supportive but the food-on-the-go market remains 
competitive and fast-moving, and so must Greggs. The 
excellent outcome in 2015 gives us confidence as we go into 
what we expect to be another busy year.
Overview
In 2015, Greggs made further progress in executing the 
strategic plan outlined in 2013, which focused the business on 
the growing food-on-the-go market. This is bringing about 
significant changes to the quality and relevance of our product 
offer as well as the positioning and condition of the Greggs 
shop estate. We are also two years into a significant change 
programme, with ongoing investment in processes and systems 
delivering benefits in terms of efficiency and greater agility. 
The result has been another excellent financial performance, 
founded on strong like-for-like sales growth and leveraging the 
vertical integration of the Greggs business model.
The Chief Executive’s report provides greater detail on 
performance in 2015, progress against our strategic plan and 
key targets.
Our people and values
As a Board, we believe that the Greggs culture and heritage is 
a key component of how the brand is perceived and cherished 
by our customers. The ongoing success of our business 
requires constant embracing of change but the way in which we 
implement changes is very much informed by our values and 
the long-term mind-set that has served the business so well.
I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs 
during the past year and contributed to its success. We are 
proud of our achievements and have delivered an excellent 
financial performance whilst ensuring that Greggs remains an 
engaging place to work and a positive contributor to the 
communities in which we trade.
 
 “The excellent outcome in 
2015 gives us confidence as 
we go into what we expect 
to be another busy year.”
Ian Durant, Chairman
In 2015 Greggs delivered an 
exceptional operational and financial 
performance, whilst also making 
good progress against its longer-
term strategic plan. 05 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
The Board
There were no changes in the composition of the Board in 
2015, following a number of appointments in 2014. We 
completed our first independent Board evaluation in the year; 
the results were reassuring in terms of the effectiveness of the 
Board and have given us a number of actions for further 
improvement in the year ahead.
Board members are encouraged to spend time in the business, 
exploring its operations and talking with staff (for my part this 
included a night shift in South Wales) in order to inform our 
discussions about the business. Our aspiration is to maintain  
an open and constructive dialogue with a management team 
which values the contributions of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Our discussions are often lively and, whilst mutually respectful, 
a diversity of views is considered a strength.
The Board’s priorities in the past year have included oversight 
of the programme of process and systems change, people 
development and increasing our understanding of customer 
needs. In addition, we have spent a significant amount of time 
considering plans to invest in the Company’s internal supply 
chain, including the acquisition of an additional distribution 
facility in north London and the other proposals outlined in  
the Chief Executive’s report.
Further details of the Board’s work can be found in the 
Governance and Committee sections of this annual report.
Dividend policy and capital structure
Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend 
that is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus 
capital being returned by way of special dividends. 
In line with its progressive dividend policy the Board intends  
to recommend at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) a final 
dividend of 21.2p per share (2014: 16.0p), giving a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 28.6p (2014: 22.0p), an 
increase of 30.0 per cent.
During 2015 the Board carried out a review of the appropriate 
capital structure of the Group, including consultation with 
some shareholders on different options for returning surplus 
capital. Given the leasehold nature of the shop portfolio the 
Board concluded that it is not currently appropriate to take on 
structural debt and intends to maintain a net cash position.
In 2015 the Group paid its first special dividend of 20.0p per 
share (a total of £20.2 million), in addition to ordinary dividends 
paid in the year totalling 23.4p per share. Our Finance Director, 
Richard Hutton, outlines the expected application of the 
distribution policy in more detail in the financial review.
Looking ahead
We have made great progress in executing the strategic 
realignment of the business and, in the year ahead, will 
continue to make changes to improve further in all areas.  
This is expected to include major investment and change in  
our supply chain, which will involve some proposed bakery 
closures, as detailed in the Chief Executive’s report. We realise 
that this will be difficult for the people impacted but is essential 
to support growth and the long-term competitiveness of  
the business.
High quality delivery of our change programme and 
operational plans has resulted in a strong business 
performance over the last two years. I am confident that  
we can make further progress in the year ahead.
Ian Durant
Chairman
1 March 2016 06 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy
Continuing to focus on  
four key areas will deliver 
success in food-on-the-go.
Our approach 
Keeping our people, 
communities and  
values at the heart  
of our business.
Great tasting  
fresh food
A great shopping 
experience
Simple and efficient 
operations
Improvement  
through change
We freshly prepare food which is both  
great tasting and value for money.
We are taking Greggs to where our  
customers are, providing them with a great 
shopping environment and fulfilling more of 
their needs by focusing on food-on-the-go 
at all times of the day.
We are realising the significant efficiency  
and capacity benefits to be gained within  
our existing network in order to develop 
simple and efficient operations.
We are investing in our processes and  
systems platform to enable us to compete 
more effectively in the fast-moving  
food-on-the-go market.
Progress made in 2015
 – Extension of breakfast range adding new porridge, free-range 
egg omelette in addition to breakfast baguettes.
 – Relaunch of hot food menu with a range of soup, hot sandwiches 
and pizza.
 – Extension of ‘Balanced Choice’ range, to include soup, salads, 
‘heat-to-eat’ sandwiches and ‘no added sugar’ soft drinks.
 – Core sweet lines upgraded.
 – Coffee sales grew strongly and we invested substantially  
in additional coffee machines.
 – We introduced further great value deals.
 
More detail: Strategy in action P08-P09
Progress made in 2015
 – 222 shops refitted, most with seating, and 34 re-sites.
 – Franchise partnerships developed, including expansion into 
Northern Ireland.
 – 27 new Company-managed shops opened.
 – New systems to manage shop labour allocation have enabled  
us to improve service standards at busiest times of the day.
 – Continued to build on reputation for fast and friendly service  
and have invested significantly with independent customer 
experience visits, rewarding teams who deliver great standards.
 – Greggs Rewards loyalty programme grows in popularity.
 
More detail: Strategy in action P10-P11
Progress made in 2015
 – New benefits achieved through better procurement, product  
management, investment in manufacturing projects and adoption 
of more efficient structures. 
 – We continued to consolidate production activity by focusing  
on centres of excellence in our supply chain.
 – Acquisition of a freehold distribution depot adjacent to our 
existing bakery in Enfield to support the growth potential of  
the business.
 – Combined annual financial benefits of £12 million in 2015.
 
More detail: Strategy in action P12-P13
Progress made in 2015
 – Significant progress in second year of our investment programme to 
create the integrated systems platform necessary to compete more 
effectively as a centralised brand in the food-on-the-go market. 
 – Workforce and supplier relationship management implemented 
and delivering benefits in excess of expectations.
 – Installed the infrastructure necessary to run SAP as our core ERP 
system and implemented the first module of this, going live with 
our new customer contact system to help improve customer 
relationship management.
 
More detail: Strategy in action P14-P15 07 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Our vision and strategy
Our strategic plan focuses on growing like-for-like sales by 
further improving the quality of our food offer and existing 
estate and making our operations simpler and more efficient. 
The plan has four key pillars which are underpinned by our 
approach to keeping our people, communities and values at 
the heart of our business.
Measuring progress
Our strategic plan represents a major programme of change over 
a period of up to five years and we have mapped out a number  
of key targets and milestones that we will use to track progress:
 – Driving like-for-like sales growth.
 – Achieving targeted returns on our transformational 
investment in shop refurbishment.
 – Delivery of operational efficiencies.
 – Achieving the planned benefits from our investment  
in processes and systems.
Plans for 2016
We have another strong pipeline of new product developments and upgrades, with 
many opportunities to continue to improve our product offer and further develop our 
position in the food-on-the-go market. For example, we have just launched a new flat 
white coffee together with improved recipes for other hot drinks. Balanced Choice 
development is a key priority with new soup options recently launched and a freshly 
prepared salad range planned for the summer.
Plans for 2016
We plan to enhance the customer experience further by continuing to improve our 
service offering, shop environments and locations, rebalancing our estate towards 
new convenient catchment areas, with help from our franchise partners in travel and 
other convenience locations. We expect to open 100-120 shops, including further 
development of our franchise partnerships, refit around 200 shops and close  
50-60 shops. We will also launch a new improved mobile app and more flexible 
payment options.
Plans for 2016
We plan to invest around £100 million in our manufacturing and distribution 
operations over the next five years to reshape our operations. This will enable us to 
increase capacity to support shop expansion substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in 
the UK and compete more effectively in the food-on-the-go market. 
Plans for 2016
We will continue with the implementation of our strategic plan to enable the business 
to compete more effectively in the food-on-the-go market whilst driving efficiencies 
and adding capacity for further sustainable growth. We will continue to build a suite 
of new capabilities, including centralised supply, procurement, product lifecycle 
management and centralised ranging, forecasting and replenishment. Results of the 
programme expected to make an annual net contribution of around £6 million once 
all key functionality is in place.
Company-managed shop 
like-for-like sales growth
4.7%
Refit return on  
investment
22.9%
Operational  
efficiencies
£8.1m
Savings from processes  
and systems change
£4.0m
 
See: Chief Executive’s report P19
 
See: Chief Executive’s report P18
 
See: Chief Executive’s report P18
 
See: Chief Executive’s report P17 08 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy in action
Great tasting  
fresh food
Expert bakers for over 75 years, Greggs prides itself on freshly 
preparing food in shops every day and delivering both  
great tasting food and value for money to its customers.
Because we own and run all of our 
bakeries, we know, and can control, 
exactly what goes into our food. Our 
vertically-integrated supply chain, 
unique recipes and bakery expertise 
all help to set Greggs apart and 
deliver simple, good quality, great 
tasting fresh food at affordable and 
competitive prices.
Progress made in 2015
We continued to see improved sales 
as a result of the product changes and 
improvements made last year. Our 
2015 product initiatives across the 
day, combined with our great value 
deals, continued to drive increased 
customer visits and higher average 
transaction values. Coffee sales 
continue to grow, and we invested 
substantially in additional coffee 
machines in early 2015. We extended 
our breakfast range to include new 
porridge and breakfast sandwich 
options, including a free-range egg 
omelette option which attracted the 
‘Good Egg Award’. The extension of 
our Balanced Choice range to include 
salads and sandwiches and improved 
own-label drinks with ‘no added 
sugar’, all with fewer than 400 
calories, has proven popular with 
sales continuing to grow strongly.  
The range was recognised by IGD 
(The Global Food and Consumer 
Goods Experts) with a ‘Health and 
Wellness Award’. In the autumn, we 
completely overhauled and re-
presented our hot food menu, 
introducing new products such as the 
Aberdeen Angus spicy meatball melt 
baguette, the Balanced Choice peri 
peri chicken flatbread and improved 
existing lines, such as pizza slices. Our 
core sweet lines were also upgraded. 
Our reputation for value for money 
continues to grow as we further 
extend our popular meal deals.
Plans for 2016
We plan to develop our position  
in the food-on-the-go market by 
building on the success of the 
changes we introduced in 2015 and  
a healthy pipeline of activity in the 
year ahead. Highlights include the 
introduction of a flat white coffee  
to our hot drinks menu, a freshly 
prepared salad range planned for 
summer, upgrading product recipes, 
introducing new products and 
widening our meal deal offers.
 “I regularly visit Greggs on my 
lunch break to grab a coffee  
and a sandwich. I am a big fan  
of the Balanced Choice range 
and enjoy trying the latest 
additions to the menu.”
Jane Lipton, Leeds Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
09 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy in action
A great shopping 
experience
Our bakery food-on-the-go format comprises a contemporary 
interior that draws on Greggs’ bakery heritage but is designed 
to meet the demands of the modern retail environment and 
busy food-on-the-go shoppers.
Important features include the 
provision of seating for customers 
where appropriate, improved 
customer flow and more efficient 
queue management. The Greggs 
customer experience has been 
further enhanced by improved 
service levels and more convenient 
shop locations, with new franchise 
partnerships enabling us to reach 
previously inaccessible travel and 
other convenience locations.
Progress made in 2015
We have continued to benefit from 
the changes we made to service 
levels, including improved 
availability, to drive excellent volume 
growth, and have extended further 
the times our shops are available to 
customers. We continue to build on 
our reputation for fast and friendly 
customer service and have 
introduced an independent 
‘customer experience’ programme, 
rewarding teams delivering great 
standards. Our digital customer 
reward programme, Greggs 
Rewards, continues to attract new 
members and provides us with 
valuable information to enhance  
the customer experience.
Our investment programme to 
improve the quality of our estate is 
progressing well, with 202 refits,  
plus 20 conversions of larger bakery 
cafés completed in 2015. During 
2015, we returned to net shop 
growth, opening 122 new shops 
(including 61 franchise shops) and 
closing 74 shops, giving a total of 
1,698 shops (of which 105 are 
franchise shops) trading at 2 January 
2016. Together with franchise 
partners Moto, Euro Garages, 
Applegreen UK and Ireland, 
Wightlink Limited, Blakemore Retail, 
Compass and the Sandpiper Group, 
most of our new shops were opened 
in locations away from high streets. 
We also opened our first shop in 
Northern Ireland with franchise 
partner Applegreen.
Plans for 2016
We remain committed to improving 
the quality of our existing estate and 
our service offering. In 2016, we will 
continue to reshape our estate which 
will involve closing 50-60 shops, 
relocating others and opening up to 
120 new ones away from the high 
street. We will continue to improve 
our service levels through a 
combination of improved availability 
at lunchtime, further roll out of our 
extended opening hours programme 
and the launch of a new, improved 
mobile app and more flexible 
payment options.
 “The staff in Greggs are 
so helpful and friendly.  
I’m always greeted  
with a smile.”
Sam Meadows, Sheffield Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
11 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy in action
Simple and 
efficient operations
As a retailer with a vertically-integrated supply chain, from 
production through distribution to point-of-sale, we have  
an important advantage over many of our competitors. 
To make sure we continue to deliver 
good quality, great tasting fresh food 
at competitive prices, it is imperative 
that we continue to focus on realising 
the significant efficiency and capacity 
benefits to be gained within our 
supply chain and network of bakeries. 
We will also continue to improve our 
operational effectiveness in support 
areas in order to maximise our scope 
for investment in front-line  
customer service.
Progress made in 2015
We made good progress in our  
drive to make supply and support 
functions simpler and more efficient. 
Better processes, particularly around 
procurement, workforce and product 
management, have delivered lower 
costs and reduced waste and we 
continue to consolidate production 
activity by focusing on centres of 
excellence, ensuring great product 
quality and consistency. In total,  
our actions delivered savings of 
£12 million in 2015. We acquired a 
freehold distribution depot close  
to our Enfield bakery which will be 
brought into use in the second half  
of 2016, providing additional 
distribution capacity for shop  
growth expansion. We were again 
recognised by the award of British 
Retail Consortium accreditation to  
a number of our bakeries and 
production facilities during the year.
Plans for 2016
We plan to invest around £100 
million in our manufacturing and 
distribution operations over the next 
five years to reshape our operations. 
This will enable us to increase 
capacity to support shop expansion 
substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in 
the UK and compete more effectively 
in the food-on-the-go market. We 
currently operate 12 bakeries, but 
not all are suitable for long-term 
investment due to their size or 
location. As a result, we are 
proposing to close our Twickenham, 
Edinburgh and Sleaford bakeries.  
We will be treating all those affected 
with fairness, consideration  
and respect in line  
with our values. 
 “My day starts at 4am to help 
ensure each shop is fully stocked 
for the day ahead. My reward is  
a bacon breakfast roll and coffee 
at the end of the run!”
Andy Coull, Relief Team Leader in Transport  Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
13 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy in action
Improvement  
through change
We continue to make significant progress in creating the 
integrated systems platform needed to compete more 
effectively as a centralised brand.
We are now halfway through our 
five-year change programme which 
involves investing in a process and 
systems platform that enables us to 
compete more effectively in the 
fast-moving food-on-the-go market.
Progress made in 2015
We made significant progress in  
the second year of our investment 
programme to overhaul our processes 
and systems and introduce new  
ways of working. We installed the 
infrastructure necessary to run SAP as 
our core ERP system and implemented 
the first module of this through the 
introduction of a new customer 
contact system to improve customer 
relationship management. We are well 
advanced with plans to bring finance 
into SAP in the first half of 2016.
Plans for 2016
Plans are well underway for the  
next major phase of change which 
will focus on core elements such 
as finance, procurement, product 
lifecycle management, centralised 
ranging, forecasting and 
replenishment. Results of the 
programme are expected to make 
an annual net contribution of  
around £6 million, once all key 
functionality is in place.
 “I work for the Greggs in-house 
customer care team and I’m 
always happy to help our 
customers find out more about 
our range of products. The new 
system helps me to do my job 
more effectively and efficiently.”
Lauren McGettigan, Customer Care Team Leader Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
15 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s report
In 2015 we delivered another excellent performance in the 
second year of implementation of our strategy to transform 
Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a modern, 
attractive food-on-the-go retailer. We have made significant 
progress across all areas of our strategic plan, with the result 
that our estate is stronger and our products, value and service 
are all improving the experience for customers. Trading 
conditions have continued to be favourable and we have grown 
sales whilst continuing to drive efficiencies in our operations, 
resulting in a second consecutive year of record profits.
Financial performance
Total sales grew to £835.7 million in 2015, up 5.2 per cent on a 
comparable 52 week basis and up 3.7 per cent when compared 
to the 53 week financial year in 2014. Company-managed shop 
like-for-like sales grew by 4.7 per cent and our franchised shops 
continued to perform well.
Operating profit (before exceptional items in 2014) grew by 
25.9 per cent to £73.1 million and pre-tax profit (before 
exceptional items in 2014) grew by 25.4 per cent to £73.0 
million. Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, comments on 
financial performance in more detail in the financial review.
Market background: Growing food-on-the-go market
Market conditions continued to be favourable during 2015, with 
low inflation leading to further rises in real disposable 
consumer income. We saw strong growth throughout the year, 
although customer footfall in some shopping locations was 
subdued in the final quarter, resulting in slower growth in this 
period. The market for food-on-the-go remains highly 
competitive but our like-for-like sales performance 
demonstrates the strength of the Greggs brand, its quality and 
its differentiated offer. Greggs appeals to a broad customer 
base and we saw increased numbers of customer visits as well 
as growth in average transaction values in the year.
Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go
Our strategic plan, announced in 2013, focuses on growing like-
for-like sales by improving the customer proposition and the 
quality of our existing estate and making our operations 
simpler and more efficient. The plan has four key pillars: 
1. Great tasting fresh food.
2. A great shopping experience.
3. Simple and efficient operations.
4. Improvement through change.
These pillars are all supported by our approach to keeping our 
people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
 “Our estate is stronger and 
our products, value and 
service are all improving 
the customer experience.”
Roger Whiteside, Chief Executive
We delivered another excellent performance in 2015, 
making further progress with our plan to transform 
Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a 
modern, attractive food-on-the-go retailer. 17 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
The strategic plan represents a major programme of change 
over a period of up to five years and we are tracking progress 
against a number of key targets:
 – Driving like-for-like sales growth.
 – Achieving targeted returns on our transformational 
investment in shop refits.
 – Delivery of operational and supply chain efficiencies.
 – Achieving the planned benefits from our investment in 
processes and systems.
In 2015 we once again met our objectives in all of these areas:
 – A second consecutive year of strong like-for-like  
sales growth.
 – Refit investment returns exceeded our hurdle.
 – A second year of significant cost efficiencies.
 – Process and systems investment benefits ahead of plan.
Delivering our strategy
1.  Great tasting fresh food
Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we draw on our 
heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the 
food-on-the-go market. The Greggs product offer is 
differentiated by the way we freshly prepare food each day in 
our shops and by offering outstanding value for money for 
good quality, great tasting food-on-the-go. 
Improvements to product range 
We continue to make improvements to our product range in 
order to tailor it to the demands of the food-on-the-go 
customer and this has been successful in driving sales growth.
Demand for breakfast products continues to grow strongly  
as increasing numbers of customers look to grab breakfast  
as they go about their busy lives. In the early part of the year  
we successfully extended our breakfast menu to include 
free-range egg omelette in addition to breakfast baguettes. 
Coffee sales continue to grow strongly and we invested 
substantially in additional coffee machines to meet rising 
demand at this time of day.
Growth in sandwich sales continued its momentum in the 
second year following the category re-launch and we saw a 
further step-up in sales with the successful launch of our new 
‘heat-to-eat’ sandwich range in the autumn.
Our Balanced Choice range offers healthier choices with fewer 
than 400 calories and which are either amber or green on the 
FSA traffic light system. This has provided a strong platform for 
growth, with sales already accounting for 10 per cent of 
turnover. Success this year has come from range extensions 
including soup and salads, ‘heat-to-eat’ sandwiches and ‘no 
added sugar’ soft drinks.
With growing concern over obesity this is a strategically 
important area of development and we were particularly proud 
to be awarded the 2015 IGD ‘Health and Wellness Award’ in 
recognition of our work in improving the nutritional value of our 
products. The judges recognised our efforts to help our 
customers to make informed choices and our achievement in 
delivering a significant positive change in the shopping habits 
of customers.
Value
Greggs continues to lead the market in offering outstanding 
value for money and the attractiveness of our value deals has 
driven growth in both transaction numbers and average values. 
We maintained our £2 breakfast meal deal for the sixth year 
running and saw increased participation in our range of all-day 
meal deals offering any savoury or sweet product plus any hot 
drink for £2.
2016 product initiatives
We have another strong pipeline of new product developments 
planned for 2016. As an example we have just launched a new 
‘flat white’ coffee together with improved recipes for other hot 
drinks, and these are already proving popular. Balanced Choice 
development remains a priority with new soup options recently 
launched and a new freshly-prepared salad range planned for 
the summer.
Traditional bakery favourites in savoury and sweet products 
remain very important and we have an exciting line up of new 
developments and quality upgrades in our plans for this year. 
We also aim to build on our strong growth in sandwich sales, 
with further improvements this spring to maintain momentum 
in this part of our offer.
2.  A great shopping experience
As well as improvements to our products we have continued to 
make changes in our shop operations to meet the needs of our 
food-on-the-go customers better. Our investment in new 
systems to manage shop labour allocation has enabled us to 
improve service standards at the busiest times of the day and 
we have continued to extend opening hours as opportunities 
arise. Our shop teams have an outstanding reputation for fast 
and friendly service and we have invested significantly to build 
on this with independent customer experience visits rewarding 
teams who deliver great standards.
Our Balanced Choice range 
won recognition at the 2015 
IGD Awards.
We opened our 100th 
franchise shop increasing  
our presence in travel,  
leisure and work-centred 
catchments.
We acquired a new freehold 
distribution depot, close to 
our Enfield bakery, to 
support business growth.
Investment in new systems 
to manage shop labour 
allocation has enabled us to 
improve service standards at 
the busiest times of the day.
Highlights of the year 18 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Estate changes and refurbishments
The food-on-the-go market continues to grow, offering exciting 
opportunities to increase our estate to substantially more than 
2,000 shops, particularly in new locations away from high 
streets. 2015 saw us return to net shop growth, opening 122 
new shops (including 61 franchised units and our first in 
Northern Ireland) in the year and closing 74, resulting in 1,698 
shops trading at 2 January 2016. 90 per cent of our new shop 
locations were away from high streets in areas such as retail 
and industrial parks, motorway service stations and travel hubs. 
At the end of 2015 we had 105 franchised shops operating in 
travel and other convenience locations, with a particular focus 
on motorway services and petrol forecourts.
We completed 202 shop refurbishments during the year and 
converted a further 20 existing bakery cafés to our bakery 
food-on-the-go format. These investments are transformational 
and allow our shops to really focus on the food-on-the-go 
customer. By the end of 2015 82 per cent of our shops had 
been converted to the food-on-the-go format and in the year 
ahead we anticipate progressing with this refurbishment 
programme at a similar rate.
In 2016 we again expect to open 100-120 shops, including 
further development of our franchise partnerships, and to close 
50-60 shops. With our leasehold property structure we have 
the flexibility to relocate as customer trends move and our new 
shop opening programme is steadily shifting the balance of the 
estate, increasing our presence in travel, leisure and work-
centred catchments. In 2013 only 20 per cent of our estate was 
located in these location types and by the end of 2015 this 
proportion had risen to 27 per cent. This, coupled with our refit 
investment programme, is progressively improving the quality 
and performance of our shop estate.
Greggs Rewards loyalty scheme
We have continued to build membership of our digital 
customer reward programme, which is providing valuable 
insight into consumer behaviour and developing loyalty. This is 
a strategically important initiative as we pursue our long-term 
ambitions to develop digital engagement with our customers. 
In 2016 we will take an important next step by launching a new 
improved mobile app and more flexible payment options.
3. Simple and efficient operations 
Our drive to make our supply and support functions simpler 
and more efficient continued to make good progress in 2015. 
New benefits were achieved through better procurement, 
investment in manufacturing projects and the adoption of more 
efficient structures. 
In addition we were able to extract further gains from our 
investment in better processes and systems, particularly in 
workforce management where we continued to build upon the 
initial deployment and refine our approach. In total our actions 
to make the business simpler and more efficient delivered 
savings of £12 million in 2015, slightly ahead of the targets we 
had set. We expect a lower level of overall cost benefit in 2016 
as we focus on implementing core SAP, and should then 
achieve further cost and revenue benefits from 2017.
In September 2015, in order to provide additional distribution 
capacity for shop growth, we acquired a freehold distribution 
depot adjacent to our existing bakery in Enfield. The total 
investment, including conversion works, is likely to be around 
£13 million and the facility will be brought into use in the 
second half of 2016. This marks a first step towards a major new 
programme of investment in our supply chain which will have 
far-reaching implications and major benefits for our business. 
The proposals are described in more detail in our view on the 
outlook below.
4. Improvement through change
Investment in systems
We have made significant progress in the second year of our 
major investment programme to create the integrated systems 
platform necessary in order to compete more effectively as a 
centralised business in the food-on-the-go market. The initial 
phases, involving workforce management and supplier 
relationship management, have delivered benefits in excess  
of our initial expectations.
In 2015 we installed the infrastructure necessary to run SAP  
as our core Enterprise Resource Planning system and 
implemented the first module of this, going live with a new 
customer contact system in the fourth quarter. We are well 
advanced with plans to bring our existing finance processes 
into SAP in the first half of 2016. This will provide the platform 
on which we will build a suite of new capabilities across 
logistics, procurement, product lifecycle management and 
centralised ranging, forecasting and replenishment. We plan  
to trial improved processes around shop ordering in the latter 
part of the year.
We continue to be encouraged by the results of the 
programme, which is expected to make an annual net 
contribution of around £6.0 million once all the key functionality 
is in place, as well as making us more agile in terms of our 
ability to adopt further change in the future.
Keeping our people, communities and values  
at the heart of our business
The business continues to implement successfully a far-
reaching programme of change as we progress with our plan  
to position Greggs so it continues to succeed in the growing 
food-on-the-go market. I would like to take this opportunity  
to thank all of our teams in every part of our business for the 
role they played in delivering another record-breaking year  
of success.
As a business one of the ways in which we share the benefits  
of our success is through our profit sharing scheme, which 
distributes ten per cent of our profit to employees. I am 
delighted that our people will be sharing a record £8.1 million 
as a result of our strong performance in 2015.
Greggs in the community
We also aim to share our success with the local communities  
in which we operate. Around £600,000 was raised in our shops 
and our bakeries for the Greggs Foundation and this, combined 
with donations from the Company and the proceeds of carrier 
bag charges, enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute 
£1.8 million in support of a wide range of local community 
initiatives. These included the award-winning Greggs Breakfast 
Club programme, which provided over four million free 
wholesome breakfasts to children in 363 primary schools  
in 2015. 163 of these clubs are supported by our partner 
organisations, who share our ambition to improve the learning 
opportunities for children in disadvantaged areas.
Chief Executive’s report continued 19 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Our customers were once again incredibly generous, helping 
Greggs to raise over £1.0 million for the North of England 
Children’s Cancer Research Fund, the BBC Children in Need 
appeal and the Disasters Emergency Committee’s Nepal 
earthquake appeal collectively in 2015.
Our ‘Fresh Start’ employability programme helped to promote 
the employability skills of over 600 people in 2015. We also 
created 91 new apprenticeships through our national 
apprentice development programme.
In 2015 we continued our support for the Business in the 
Community’s (BITC) ‘Business Connectors’ scheme and, 
through our employee volunteering scheme, we donated 500 
volunteer days to good causes.
Social responsibility 
In addition to our support for the local communities in which 
we trade, we have made significant progress in the other key 
areas of our social responsibility agenda. We were particularly 
pleased to have gained recognition for our work through 
independent accreditation, achieving a ‘three-star’ rating in the 
BITC CR index scheme and a ‘tier three’ assessment with the 
Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
One area of particular focus remained the donation of end-of-
day food to charitable organisations. In 2015 we improved our 
processes and were successful in more than doubling the 
amount of end-of-day food that we donated to good causes, 
benefitting those in need whilst reducing waste in the business.
Outlook for 2016
£100 million investment programme in manufacturing and 
distribution operations 
As part of our strategic plan to grow Greggs and transform  
it from a decentralised traditional bakery business into a 
centrally-run modern food-on-the-go brand we have been 
reviewing our manufacturing and distribution operations. 
Greggs is unusual in this sector in that it is vertically- 
integrated, owning and operating manufacturing facilities  
and its logistics network.
Following a lengthy and detailed review we have concluded 
that this integrated business model gives us competitive 
advantage, lying at the heart of our ability to offer outstanding 
quality and value. We intend to invest substantially to support 
growth and reshape the supply chain in order to compete more 
effectively in the food-on-the-go market. This requires an 
investment of around £100 million in a major programme over 
the next five years to create additional manufacturing centres 
of excellence and increase capacity to support shop expansion 
substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in the UK.
Greggs currently operates from 12 bakeries; unfortunately  
not all are suitable for long-term investment due to their 
location and size. As a result we are proposing to close three 
bakeries and use the disposal proceeds to contribute to the 
investment in our remaining bakeries over the course of the 
five-year programme.
 
The bakeries proposed for closure are Twickenham, Edinburgh 
and Sleaford, and we aim to agree a programme to transfer 
production and distribution operations from these sites to 
other bakeries in our network over the next year. Alongside 
these proposed changes in our bakeries we have further steps 
to take in the centralisation of support services which we 
believe will require some restructuring amongst our teams 
deployed in the regions. We will be entering into consultation 
shortly to work with trade unions and employee representatives 
of those affected to refine and develop these proposals. 
This may result in a total of 355 roles becoming redundant. 
These are difficult changes that we believe are needed to 
support the long-term growth of the business; however our 
immediate priority is to work to minimise the negative impact 
on our people, many of whom have worked in these roles for a 
significant number of years. Wherever possible we would look 
to offer alternative employment to affected employees but, 
due to the location of our sites, we anticipate that unfortunately 
many will leave the business.
Our recently-acquired distribution facility in London will enable 
us to invest in our Enfield bakery to create a manufacturing 
centre of excellence in the south east region and we now 
propose to invest in the extension of our Clydesmill bakery in 
Glasgow to create a centre of excellence in Scotland. These 
investments will mark the first phase of our five-year 
programme to transform our supply chain.
Trading
This year has started well and like-for-like sales in the eight 
weeks to 27 February 2016 have grown by 4.2 per cent, with 
total sales up 6.8 per cent. The consumer outlook remains 
positive with disposable incomes expected to grow further  
in 2016.
Costs were well controlled in 2015 and we will drive further 
efficiencies in the year ahead. Wage costs will increase above 
the rate of general inflation but food input costs are again likely 
to be deflationary for the first half of the year. In order to 
protect our reputation as an attractive employer we have 
agreed a wage increase of 5 per cent for our shop team 
members, lifting our hourly rate to £7.47 and retaining a 
premium over the statutory minimum.
Overall 2016 will be another year of significant change as we 
advance with our strategic plan and propose major investment 
in our supply chain. Alongside this we are confident of 
delivering a further year of underlying growth. The Board’s 
expectations for the year ahead remain unchanged.
Roger Whiteside
Chief Executive
1 March 2016 20 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial review
In 2015 we delivered an excellent financial performance, 
combining good sales growth with strong returns on investment 
and firm cost control. Strong cash generation allowed us to invest 
in the business for future growth whilst making record dividend 
distributions to shareholders.
Sales
Total Group sales for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 were 
£835.7 million (2014: £806.1 million), an increase of 3.7 per cent. 
Excluding the impact of the additional week in 2014 the growth in 
total Group sales compared with the same 52 weeks in 2014 was 
5.2 per cent. Company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew by 
4.7 per cent across the year as a whole, measured on  
a consistent 52 week basis.
Profit
Operating profit was £73.1 million (2014: £58.0 million before 
exceptional items), a 25.9 per cent increase on an underlying 
basis. The result reflects further good like-for-like sales growth 
combined with significant savings arising from structural changes 
and our investment in better processes and systems.
 
After net finance costs of £0.1 million (2014: £0.2 million income) 
pre-tax profit was £73.0 million (2014: £49.7 million, £58.3 million 
excluding exceptional items).
Operating margin
Operating margin was 8.7 per cent (2014: 7.2 per cent before  
exceptional items).
Within this gross margin increased to 63.5 per cent 
(2014: 62.2 per cent excluding exceptional items) reflecting 
structural changes made in 2014 and the operational gearing 
impact of strong like-for-like sales growth in the absence of 
significant inflationary pressure. Whilst the outlook for ingredient 
costs remains deflationary we have agreed enhanced pay awards 
for our retail colleagues in the year ahead. The cost of these 
awards, in excess of the annual award agreed for all other 
employees, will amount to £3 million annually.
We continued to seek efficiencies from our cost base in 2015 and 
realised further benefits from our significant programme  
of investment in better processes and systems. Including the 
annualisation of our restructuring activity from 2014 we realised 
total cost reduction benefits of £12 million in 2015, helping to 
fund the investment required for the future whilst also enhancing 
our operating margin.
In 2015 we recognised gains on the disposal of freehold 
properties totalling £1.2 million (2014: £1.5 million) largely  
as a result of the sale of freehold shops on closure. On the basis 
of our pipeline of activity for 2016 we expect property gains to 
make a similar contribution in the year ahead.
Financing charges
There was a net financing expense of £0.1 million in the year 
(2014: £0.2 million income) reflecting finance income of 
£0.2 million and a £0.3 million charge in respect of the funding 
position of the defined benefit pension scheme. In the year 
ahead we expect to incur a small financing expense relating to 
the net liability of the pension scheme at the end of the year.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate was 21.1 per cent (2014: 24.0 per 
cent before exceptional items). The effective rate primarily 
 “Cash generation continued 
to be strong, supporting 
investment for future 
growth of the business as 
well as a record dividend.”
Richard Hutton, Finance Director
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Revenue 835.7 806.1 
Operating profit* (excluding  
property profits) 71.9 56.5 
Property profits 1.2 1.5 
Operating profit* 73.1 58.0 
Operating margin* 8.7% 7.2%
Finance (expense)/income (0.1) 0.2 
Exceptional items 0.0 (8.5)
Profit before taxation 73.0 49.7 
* excluding exceptional items in 2014 21 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
reflected reductions in the headline rate of corporation tax and 
the impact of the Group’s share price on allowances for share 
scheme costs. We expect the effective rate for 2016 to be around 
22 per cent, and to remain around two per cent above the 
headline corporation tax rate going forward.
Earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share were 55.8 pence (2014: 43.4 pence 
before exceptional items), an increase of 28.6 per cent. Basic 
earnings per share were 57.3 pence (2014: 44.0 pence before 
exceptional items).
Dividend
The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend of 21.2 pence 
per share (2014: 16.0 pence). Together with the interim dividend 
of 7.4 pence (2014: 6.0 pence) paid in October 2015, this makes a 
total ordinary dividend for the year of 28.6 pence (2014: 22.0 
pence). This is covered two times by diluted earnings per share in 
line with our progressive dividend policy. In addition in July 2015 
the Group paid a special dividend of 20.0 pence per share. Total 
dividends paid in the year therefore amounted to £43.7 million 
(2014: £19.6 million).
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2016 to 
shareholders on the register on 22 April 2016.
Capital expenditure
We invested a total of £71.7 million (2014: £48.9 million) on  
capital expenditure in the business during 2015. This included 
£36.3 million on 202 shop refurbishments, the conversion of  
20 existing bakery cafés and the opening of 61 new shops 
(excluding franchises). We continued to invest in shop equipment 
to support further growth in sales of coffee and hot sandwiches, 
totalling £6.9 million, and also invested £7.0 million in our 
programme of process and systems improvement. Investment in 
our supply chain of £17.8 million included £8.9 million in the year 
in respect of the acquisition of our new distribution facility in 
Enfield. Depreciation and amortisation in the year was 
£40.1 million (2014: £38.0 million).
Following the success of our 2015 capital investment programme 
we plan capital expenditure of around £85 million in 2016. This 
will support further conversion of our core shops to the bakery 
food-on-the-go format, continued growth and diversification of 
the estate and more work on the upgrading of our process and 
systems platform. We plan to refurbish around 200 shops in 2016 
and expect to invest in 80-90 new Company-managed shops, 
with further openings funded by franchise partners. The 2016 
capital expenditure plan also includes the first phase of the 
proposed programme of investment in our supply chain.
Our proposed £100 million investment programme in 
manufacturing and distribution operations comprises £75 million 
of capital expenditure and £25 million of one-off cash-related 
change costs over a five-year period. Property disposal proceeds 
following the proposed bakery closures are expected to be 
significant, in the case of the Twickenham site in particular, and we 
therefore expect to fund this investment programme from cash 
flow. Detailed planning on investment phasing is ongoing and we 
will provide further details as they become available; however, in 
the next 12 months these proposed changes would result in £12 
million of capital expenditure and one-off change costs of around 
£7 million (of which £6 million would be a cash cost).
Net of disposal proceeds the total incremental cash cost of  
the programme compared to our previously planned capex  
is expected to be no greater than £30 million. Once the 
programme is complete we anticipate the overall incremental 
cash benefit to be around £10 million per year (£7 million after 
depreciation) from 2020 onwards, delivering a strong return on 
investment as well as a more flexible and capable supply chain.
Return on capital
We manage return on capital against predetermined targets and 
monitor performance through our Investment Board, where all 
capital expenditure is subject to rigorous appraisal before and 
after it is made. For investments in new shops and refurbishments 
we target an average cash return on invested capital of 25 per 
cent, with a hurdle rate of 22.5 per cent, over an average 
investment cycle of seven years. Other investments are  
appraised using discounted cash flow analysis.
The investment returns on our refurbishment expenditure in the 
year were good, with 2015 investments meeting our return hurdle 
and more mature refurbishments showing very strong returns, 
well above our target. The performance of new shops was 
excellent, with prior year openings maturing well and newer 
shops making a very strong start. In the year ahead we will 
increase the rate of openings further, as long as we continue  
to see strong investment returns.
We delivered an overall return on capital employed (ROCE) for 
2015 of 26.8 per cent (2014: 22.4 per cent excluding exceptional 
items). The stronger ROCE reflects the improved operating 
performance in the year as well as good capital investment returns.
Cash flow and capital structure
The net cash inflow from operating activities in the year was 
£103.7 million (2014: £97.1 million). At the end of the year the 
Group had net cash and cash equivalents of £42.9 million  
(2014: £43.6 million) and a short-term cash deposit of £nil 
(2014: £10.0 million). The year-end cash position includes 
£6.5 million from the sale of a piece of land at Southall, which  
was not required as part of our future supply chain plans.
In 2015 the Board reviewed the capital structure of the Group 
and its distribution policy, taking into account the views of 
shareholders and advisers. The Board continues to be mindful  
of the leverage inherent in the Group’s predominantly leasehold 
shop estate (which will in due course appear as part of the 
balance sheet in line with new accounting requirements) and of 
working capital requirements. As a result we have concluded that 
it is not currently appropriate to take on structural debt and we 
will aim to maintain a year-end net cash position of around 
£40 million to allow for seasonality in our working capital cycle.
Looking forward we intend to maintain our progressive dividend 
policy, and, to the extent that we have material surplus capital 
within the Group, the Board would expect to return capital to 
shareholders. This was the case in 2015, when a distribution of 
£20 million was made through a special dividend. In 2016 we 
expect that cash flows will be sufficient to meet the Group’s 
investment plans whilst maintaining a year-end net cash position 
in line with our stated target.
Richard Hutton
Finance Director
1 March 2016 22 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5.8%
4.8%
3.8%
4.7%
5.2%
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
£53.0m
£51.3m
£41.5m
£58.1m
£73.1m
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
1.4%
-2.7%
-0.8%
4.5%
4.7%
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
7.6%
7.0%
5.4%
7.2%
8.7%
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
Key financial performance indicators
We use eight key financial performance indicators to 
monitor the performance of the Group against our 
strategy. These KPIs and how we performed against 
them are detailed below:
The percentage year-on-year change in total sales for the 
Group, adjusted for the impact of a 53 week year in 2014. 
Total sales grew to £835.7 million in 2015, up 5.2 per cent  
on a comparable 52 week basis and up 3.7 per cent when  
compared to the 53 week financial year in 2014. 
Reflects the performance of the Group before financing and 
taxation impacts and excludes any exceptional items arising in 
the year. Adjusted operating profit for the year increased by 
25.9 per cent to £73.1 million (2014: £58.1 million). The result 
reflects further good like-for-like sales growth combined with 
significant savings arising from structural changes and our 
investment in better processes and systems. 
 
Compares year-on-year sales in our Company-managed ‘core’ 
shops, i.e. it is not distorted by shop openings and closures. 
Like-for-like sales growth includes selling price inflation and 
excludes VAT. Company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew 
by 4.7 per cent in 2015 (2014: 4.5 per cent). We saw strong 
growth throughout the year although customer footfall in some 
shopping locations was subdued in the final quarter, resulting 
in slower growth in this period.
Shows the adjusted operating profit of the Group as  
a percentage of turnover. Operating margin for the year  
has increased to 8.7 per cent (2014: 7.2 per cent).
Total sales growth: 2014: 4.7%
 
5.2%
Adjusted operating profit: 2014: £58.1m
 
£73.1 million
Like-for-like sales growth: 2014: 4.5%
 
4.7%
Operating margin: 2014: 7.2%
 
8.7% 23 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
38.8p
38.3p
30.6p
43.4p
55.8p
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
£83.9m
£84.3m
£77.0m
£96.2m
£113.3m
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
£59.1m
£46.9m
£47.6m
£48.9m
£71.7m
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
24.4%
21.3%
16.4%
22.4%
26.8%
2014
2015
2013
2011
2012
Calculated by dividing profit attributable to shareholders 
before exceptional items by the average number of dilutive 
outstanding shares. Diluted earnings per share increased by 
28.6 per cent to 55.8p (2014: 43.4p).
Earnings (excluding exceptional items) before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation. EBITDA in 2015 was £113.3 
million (2014: £96.2 million).
The total amount incurred in the year on investment in fixed 
assets. Capital expenditure in 2015 was £71.7 million (2014: 
£48.9 million). This reflected continued investment in shop 
refurbishments, an increased rate of new shop opening,  
the purchase of a distribution facility in north London and 
further investment in our programme of process and  
systems improvement.
Calculated by dividing profit before tax before exceptional 
items by the average total assets less current liabilities for the 
year. ROCE increased to 26.8 per cent in 2015 (2014: 22.4 per 
cent). The year-on-year increase reflects the higher overall 
operating profits in 2015 and continued good returns on 
invested capital.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence): 2014: 43.4p
 
55.8p
EBITDA: 2014: £96.2m
 
£113.3 million
Capital expenditure:  2014: £48.9m
 
£71.7 million
Return on capital employed (ROCE):  2014: 22.4%
 
26.8% 24 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Company, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. These risks are described below, 
together with a brief description of mitigating activity. 
Our risk management approach
Greggs’ approach to risk management has a number of 
components, which combine to ensure that significant risks are 
identified, evaluated, recorded and managed.
Board of Directors
The Board has ultimate accountability for ensuring that risks are 
managed appropriately, although it delegates the detailed 
implementation of risk processes and mitigating actions to 
management. Significant risks (i.e. those which could prevent 
the business from achieving its objectives were they to occur) 
are considered at each meeting, with the associated controls 
being monitored and reviewed. The Board also debates 
whether any new or emerging risks require assessment by 
management, delegating any such risks to the Risk Committee 
for their consideration.
Insurance cover provides a means of mitigation for a number  
of risks facing the business. On an annual basis, the Board reviews 
the cover in place and considers whether it is appropriate. 
Through regular reporting, the Board is kept apprised of any 
issues or business changes which may impact on the 
Company’s risk profile. The Audit Committee reviews risk 
management procedures at least annually, and reports its 
findings through to the Board.
Operating Board
The Operating Board supports the Chief Executive in 
implementing the Board’s decisions, and comprises Directors 
representing each of the organisation’s main functions:  
Finance, Retail, Commercial, Supply Chain, People, Business 
Development and Property, and Corporate Affairs. 
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of risks sits  
with this group. All key strategic risks identified by the business 
are owned by an Operating Board member.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee is a management committee meets on  
a quarterly basis to discuss risks in greater detail than can be 
done during Operating Board meetings. It comprises the Chief 
Executive, the Operating Board, and a number of heads of 
business functions. Its responsibilities include analysing, 
assessing, measuring and understanding the Company’s risk 
exposure, as well as developing an appropriate risk 
management strategy for the business. Significant areas  
of concern identified by this body will be reported through  
to the Board, generally via the Audit Committee. Although  
the group’s remit extends to all risks faced by the Company,  
it will focus on key strategic risks and their associated controls.
The Risk Committee also considers new and emerging risks  
as a standing agenda item, including those identified by the 
Board of Directors. 
Whistle-blowing
All staff have an opportunity to raise matters of concern with 
senior management through our whistle-blowing policy as 
detailed on page 43, which is advertised across the business. 
Business Assurance
The Business Assurance function provides independent internal 
audit coverage for the entire business operation, and also 
supports risk management activity across the organisation.  
The Information Security and Compliance Manager now forms 
part of the team, having previously reported into the Head of IT. 
This improves the independence of our IT governance and 
strengthens the profile of information security within the business.
Audit findings are reported to management and to the Audit 
Committee, whose meetings are all attended by the Head  
of Business Assurance. The Business Assurance team has 
authority to access all areas of the business, all senior  
managers and the Chair of the Audit Committee, as required.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten 
its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. 
These risks are described on the following page, together with 
a brief description of mitigating activity.
Greggs is exposed to a wider range of risks than those listed. 
However, these are the risks which are considered to be  
the most important to the business’ future development, 
performance or position. The risks identified are those to which 
the Board considers there is a disproportionate exposure, relative 
to the food-on-the-go sector. The impact of these risks occurring 
has been considered in developing the scenarios tested as part 
of the financial viability statement on the following page.
Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to 
management, or deemed to be less material currently, may also 
have an adverse effect on the business. 
Greggs’ exposure to risks evolves as we take mitigating actions, or 
as new risks emerge. The following subjects have been removed 
from our principal risks list this year, as we believe our exposure is 
no more significant than other comparable businesses in our sector:
 – Information security and cyber risk.
 – Market saturation.
However, the Board continues to oversee and receive reports 
on the management of these risk areas in line with our normal 
business practice. In particular, the Company’s approach to 
cyber risk is driven by a cross-functional working group, which 
sets the priorities and monitors progress. Both the Audit 
Committee and the Board receive reports on information 
security and cyber risk, ensuring that an appropriate level  
of risk management is in place. 25 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Viability statement
The Directors have assessed the Company’s prospects and 
viability taking into account its current position, plans and 
principal risks. The Company remains cash-generative and has 
no debt other than normal trading liabilities to creditors and 
the obligations arising under commercial leases. In assessing 
the Company’s viability the Board has considered potential 
scenarios that have been envisaged to reflect the occurrence  
of the principal risks that the business faces.
In carrying out its assessment the Board has reviewed the 
three-year operational and financial plan to 2018. The Board 
believes that this viability assessment period is appropriate given 
its experience of the Company’s cycle of strategic plan renewal 
and the fast-moving nature of the food-on-the-go market.
The principal risks to which the Company is exposed ultimately 
affect the ability of its shops to trade successfully, either through 
an interruption to supply or because of a loss of confidence in the 
Greggs brand. A significant loss of sales would be particularly 
damaging given the Company’s vertical integration in that the 
cost of the internal supply chain cannot be reduced quickly.
In order to stress-test the financial resilience of the Company, 
scenarios were created to simulate the impact of significant 
sales declines. The Directors considered the impact of a ten 
per cent annual sales decline, and also the impact of a 
significant one-year reduction resulting from a brand-damaging 
event. In each case the Directors reviewed the mitigating 
actions that would be necessary to protect the Company’s 
liquidity. These scenarios represent more extreme 
circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
The following risks are in no particular order. 
Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating
Business change – Greggs is implementing a strategic 
plan to transform the business from a decentralised 
traditional bakery to a centralised modern food-on-the-
go brand. This involves a major programme of business 
change involving restructuring, new systems, increased 
capital investment and a major overhaul of every aspect  
of the business.
Progress may not be in line with plans, disruption could 
occur and financial returns may fall short of expectation.
The project delivery is overseen by the Operating 
Board, under the guidance of a project sponsor, 
providing robust governance. Regular updates are 
provided to the Board, to monitor progress against 
clearly defined timelines and financial forecasts.
 No change
Product quality and safety – Greggs is unusual in the 
food-on-the go sector in that it is vertically-integrated, 
owning its own manufacturing and supply chain 
operations. In addition, we freshly prepare food on the 
premises. This exposes us to greater risk in ensuring 
good food safety than many of our competitors.
Procedures are in place throughout our operations  
to ensure that food safety is maintained. These 
procedures are supported by robust audit processes, 
both internally, and by regulatory bodies.
 No change
Food scare – Greggs may suffer from a loss of customer 
confidence due to a major food scare beyond its 
control. Dependent upon the nature of this, it may  
have a disproportionate impact on Greggs.
The majority of products for sale in our shops have 
been manufactured by our staff in our bakeries. Checks 
are carried out to confirm the integrity of our products 
and ingredients as part of routine processes.
 No change
Loss of production – Some of our products are 
produced in one location and distributed nationwide. 
Any disruption to supply would have a significant 
impact on our customers.
Contingency plans are in place for our supply sites, and 
these are regularly tested. Our property insurers carry 
out annual site inspections, which help to protect our 
facilities from loss. We have alternative supply sources 
for key products, and these are periodically tested.
 No change
Market pressures – Changing shopping habits driven  
by the convenience of new customer channels and 
locations may have a greater impact on Greggs due to 
our historical bias to shops located on high streets. 
Greggs operates a leasehold shop estate with typically 
five-year break provisions, allowing us to change 
locations in line with customer traffic trends. In  
addition, new shops are predominantly opened in 
locations away from the high street to offer our services 
to customers who are away from home for reasons  
other than shopping.
 Improving
Consumer trends – Increasing customer concern with 
health and nutrition may affect demand for some of our 
traditional bakery product ranges. 
We have a proactive programme to improve the 
nutritional qualities of our traditional products where 
possible without impacting taste. In addition we are 
extending range choice to include healthier options 
branded `Balanced Choice` which is growing rapidly.
 No change 26 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 Highlights
Community We won the ‘Business of the Year’ award at the Third Sector Business Charity Awards, in recognition  
of our work to embed a culture of supporting charities at all levels of our organisation. 
Customer  
health
We won the IGD ‘Health and Wellness Award’ in recognition of our work to improve the nutrient profile  
of our products and how we are helping customers make informed choices.
Responsible  
sourcing
We made a step-change in our management of farm animal welfare through the introduction  
of a new policy, a move recognised by the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare scheme.
People Staff engagement continues to grow with 75 per cent of our team members agreeing with the  
statement ‘I would recommend Greggs as a great place to work’ – up six per cent since 2014.
Environment We met our five-year target to reduce the carbon intensity of our business by 25 per cent. We were  
accredited to hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies. 
BitC CR Index We continue to take part in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index,  
achieving a two-star rating in 2014 and a three-star rating in 2015.
FTSE4Good We have been reconfirmed as a FTSE4Good index company, recognising our commitment  
to corporate responsibility practices, in particular demonstrating our strong environmental,  
social and governance practices against global standards. 
We share our 
success  
with the people  
around us
Retail Director
Environment
We aim to  
use energy 
efficiently and  
minimise waste
We are committed 
to creating a great 
place to work
We encourage 
healthy  
food-on-the-go  
choices
Finance Director
Community
Social responsibility
We want our business to have  
a positive impact on people’s 
lives – our teams, customers, 
suppliers and local communities.
We believe it is our social responsibility to do business in a way 
that brings benefits to people who shop with us, work for us, 
supply to us, or live near us. In addition, we recognise our 
broader responsibility to respect the environment. 
Our social responsibility programme has five areas of focus, with 
a clear commitment against each one. These commitments are 
delivered through a series of projects with measurable targets. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering the overall 
programme and an Operating Board Director has been assigned 
to be a champion for each of the areas – as illustrated below.  
This group meets quarterly to review progress at a steering 
group convened by the Company Secretary. 
Responsible
Accountable
Champions
Focus areas
Our commitments
Chief Executive
Company Secretary
Commercial 
Director
Customer health
Commercial 
Director
Responsible 
sourcing
We care about 
where our 
ingredients  
come from
People Director
People 27 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
COMMUNITY
Our commitment: We share our success with  
the people around us 
Greggs is successful because of the support we receive from 
our customers and employees. We repay that loyalty by 
choosing to help others that they care about and those who  
are facing tough times. 
The Greggs Foundation 
The Greggs Foundation was created in 1987 with an 
endowment from the then Chairman Ian Gregg with the 
intention of helping people in the immediate area. This 
investment continues to help people in the North East via the 
Hardship Fund, as well as by contributing to the core running 
costs of small organisations that serve the area through the 
North East Core Funding programme.
However, today, a significant proportion of Greggs Foundation’s 
income comes from an annual donation from the Company of at 
least one per cent of the previous year’s pre-tax profits, as well 
as the generosity of our employees and customers. In 2015, 
fundraising in our shops and bakeries totalled £520,370, 
including £100,000 raised from the sale of our ‘Jammy Heart’ 
Foundation biscuit. In 2015 all funds raised by the new carrier 
bag levy were also donated to the Foundation.
This enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute a total of 
£1.8 million in support of a wide range of local community 
initiatives in 2015, including the Breakfast Club programme  
(see below) and £718,000 through local community grants. 
Now in its 29th year, the Foundation has given in excess of 
£20 million to support our local communities.  
Breakfast Clubs
One of the main beneficiaries of the Foundation’s donations is 
the Breakfast Club programme which provides primary school 
children in disadvantaged areas with a wholesome breakfast,  
free of charge. We know that eating breakfast provides a good 
start to the day helping children to concentrate and learn at 
school. In this way, the Breakfast Clubs help to give children  
a good start in life.
In 2015, the Breakfast Clubs supplied four million wholesome 
breakfasts free of charge to children in 363 primary schools 
around the UK. Each Breakfast Club receives free bread from  
its local Greggs shop. The Foundation provides a cash grant 
towards running costs at 161 schools. Partnership work has 
been central to the growth of Breakfast Clubs and an additional 
202 clubs are supported by fundraising and Greggs’ partners. 
For a list of partner organisations please see the Greggs 
Foundation’s website www.greggsfoundation.org.uk.
Supporting other charities
The Greggs Foundation is not the only charity we support. 
Each year, we also fundraise for other charities which our 
people and customers feel passionate about including Children 
in Need, the Poppy Appeal and the Disasters Emergency 
Committee (DEC). In 2015, we supported DEC’s Nepal 
Earthquake Appeal, raising over £67,000 through our 
customers’ generosity.
We have supported the North of England Children’s Cancer 
Research charity (NECCR) since 1992 and are the main sponsor 
of its annual Children’s Cancer Run. Every competitor receives  
a free Greggs lunch, prepared by our staff and their families.  
To date, the run has raised £6 million to fund research into 
improving recovery rates.
Sharing our skills with the local community
We enable all managers to devote one day each year to 
volunteering. As a result, in 2015 our people gave over 500 
days of time to benefit local charities and organisations,  
many deploying their professional skills to the benefit of  
the charitable groups. For instance, our supply chain team 
volunteered at a food bank in Newcastle and improved 
production and organisation in its warehouse. In 2016, we  
plan to make more of our volunteering days skills-based, by 
sharing our expertise in areas like accounting, marketing, 
planning, administration, legal and operations.
As part of this drive to share our skills with the wider 
community, we support the Business in the Community 
‘Business Connector’ initiative. Business Connectors are 
selected team members who undertake a long-term 
secondment from Greggs and are tasked with creating a 
sustainable bridge between businesses and community 
organisations in a particular area. The programme supports  
our people’s skill development while harnessing their expertise 
and energy to tackle local challenges. 28 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Social responsibility
CUSTOMER HEAL TH
Our commitment: We encourage healthy  
food-on-the-go choices
Our customers tell us they want help eating well on-the-go.  
We recognise that obesity, in particular, is a serious health issue 
and want to play our part in helping people watch their weight 
and manage their fat, salt and sugar intake. We know that if  
we can help our customers to make healthier choices, we can 
play a positive role in the health of the nation. 
Growing our Balanced Choice brand
In 2015, our Balanced Choice food-on-the-go range achieved 
sales over £78 million – over £13 million more than we had 
forecast. Every food item in the range contains fewer than 400 
calories, and is rated amber or green on the Food Standards 
Agency traffic light system for fat, salt and sugar. This range 
now represents almost ten per cent of our sales value and is 
growing faster than our core offering.
We have increased the number of Balanced Choice sandwiches 
by 43 per cent in the last 12 months, and the range now 
includes flatbreads too. We have also launched a choice of 
soups and freshly-prepared salads. All our own-brand soft 
drinks have ‘no added sugar’.
Our Balanced Choice range won the IGD ‘Health and Wellness 
Award’, 2015 and, at the British Sandwich Association’s Sammies 
Awards, our Cajun Chicken flatbread was highly commended.
 “Greggs is a great example of how  
an organisation has taken the needs  
of its customers to heart and delivered 
a new range of healthy products.  
It wasn’t just the exceptional products 
it developed that impressed the 
judges; it was how the Company  
is going about it.”
Judge of IGD Award
Working to improve the nutritional value of our savouries
We recognise that our savouries are a major driver of customers 
to our shops. We have long been committed to improving the 
nutritional value of these core products: since 2009 our 
products have contained no added trans fats, no artificial 
colours and no artificial flavours. In 2012, we also removed all 
monosodium glutamate (MSG). In recent years we have added 
fat and salt reduction to our objectives, focusing on 
reformulating some of our iconic products while ensuring  
the taste everyone loves. The focus on salt reduction has been 
felt elsewhere in our portfolio too: we are proud that all our 
bread, rolls and savouries now contain less salt than the limits 
recommended by the Department of Health Responsibility 
Deal targets. 
Helping our customers make informed choices 
We believe in helping people make informed choices about 
what they eat and drink. Building on our 2011 commitment 
through the Department of Health Responsibility Deal pledge 
on out of home calorie labelling, we provide nutritional 
information about our products on our website, on the Greggs 
mobile phone app and in leaflets available in our shops. In 
addition, customers can easily access information about the 
presence of all major serious allergens, by recipe.
We have also enhanced the information displayed at point of 
sale by using icons to inform our customers about important 
features of a particular product, such as ‘vegetarian’, ‘no 
mayonnaise’ or ‘1 of your 5 a day’. 29 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Our commitment: We care about where  
our ingredients come from
Our customers trust us to do the right thing. That’s why we 
continually improve the environmental, social and ethical 
standards of the products we sell.
Partnering with our suppliers 
As both a retailer and manufacturer of products, we stay close  
to the roots of where our food comes from. We focus on 
purchasing quality goods from over 2,500 great food producers, 
a number of whom we have been working with for decades.  
We pride ourselves on paying promptly and rewarding suppliers 
of quality products with long-term relationships.
We are embarking on a journey with our producers to ensure 
that our relationships include engagement on sustainability.  
A key part of this is the development of a balanced scorecard 
for suppliers that will enable us to collaborate on improving 
performance on social and environmental factors. 
We are members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange 
(SEDEX), an organisation dedicated to driving improvements  
in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply 
chains. We are encouraging our supply base to join the 
platform to help us ensure that labour standards in our  
supply base are observed. 
Promoting Fairtrade and environmental stewardship
We are not only committed to our suppliers themselves but 
recognise the positive role we can play in the communities  
and environment that surrounds their operations. We are  
active supporters of Fairtrade: all the tea, coffee, hot chocolate,  
sugar sachets, orange juice and apple juice we sell are certified 
Fairtrade. We also recognise that the palm oil industry can  
do enormous damage to forests and wildlife habitats. We  
are working closely with our suppliers in the first half of the  
year to insist that 100% of the palm-derived fats and oils we 
use in our products are certified as sustainable.
Animal welfare
We use meat, fish, eggs and dairy products in our recipes  
and take care to ensure that these are produced and delivered 
in a way that avoids abuse or exploitation of animals. In 2015,  
we introduced the Greggs Farm Animal Welfare policy, a 
standard based on existing legislation and farm animal welfare 
certifications such as the RSPCA’s Five Freedoms and the Red 
Tractor assurance scheme. We have shared this policy with all 
our suppliers and will regularly review our work in the area. 
Today, all the whole eggs we buy are free range and we are 
proud to have received the Good Egg award from Compassion 
in World Farming (CiWF) as a result. Additionally, all our prawns 
are sourced from MSC certified sustainable sources, and we are 
working to make our tuna supplies free from fish aggregating 
devices (known as FADs). 
 
The Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare is the leading 
global measure of company performance on farm animal 
welfare. As a result of our Farm Animal Welfare policy and 
approach, Greggs moved from tier five to tier three in their 
six-tier benchmark.
Food assurance
In 2015, The Food Standards Agency placed Greggs in seventh 
place in its food hygiene ranking of the 20 biggest high street 
chains in the UK. In total, nine out of ten Greggs shops received 
the maximum score of ‘very good’, and none were found to  
be unsatisfactory.
We also take food hygiene, safety and integrity seriously in  
our supply chain, assessing all our suppliers against the British 
Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety, and 
introducing controls to reduce possible risks. By the end of 
2016, we will have audited all of our production sites against 
the latest version of these standards, to ensure that each one 
has maintained their certification status within this UKAS 
accredited scheme.  30 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Social responsibility
PEOPLE
Our commitment: We are committed to creating  
a great place to work
Our people are the heart of our business and if they are happy, 
our customers are happy. We listen, develop and reward our 
20,000 colleagues, and as they thrive, so do we.
Keeping our people safe
Making sure our people and customers are safe is our top priority. 
In 2015, we reduced reportable accidents in our supply chain 
by more than 30 per cent, exceeding our target. In part, we 
achieved this through our ‘near miss’ programme which records 
potential hazards, raising awareness of areas of risk and 
encouraging our teams to take these seriously. In 2015, there 
was an 80 per cent increase in reports of ‘near misses’ and  
a corresponding 28 per cent reduction in minor incidents.  
Three of our 12 major sites had no reportable incidents.
Within our retail operations, we fell short of the ambitious 
target we had set ourselves but still delivered progress. We 
began developing more engaging materials to help our shop 
teams to prioritise and improve health and safety performance, 
and held two health and safety awareness weeks.
Listening to our people
Every year we survey the opinions of our employees in order to 
hear their feedback and understand how they feel about their 
jobs. In 2015, 93 per cent of our team members completed the 
survey and we achieved another high engagement score of 
79 per cent, up four per cent since 2014.
We know it is the people on the ground who have the best 
ideas for business improvements, so in 2014, we introduced 
‘Your Ideas Matter’, a feedback mechanism for our people to 
use on a daily basis. During 2015, 295 people shared useful 
ideas about how we can improve our business. 
Rewarding our people
We believe everyone who works here should share in the 
Company’s success and, each year, distribute ten per cent  
of all profits between our team members. For 2015, our  
people will be sharing a record £8.1 million as a result of our 
strong performance.
Team members are invited to join the Greggs Share Incentive 
Plan which lets them reinvest their profit share into Greggs 
shares. We also have a Greggs Share Save scheme which allows 
people to save money and invest in Greggs shares. In 2015, 
2,542 team members participated in ‘Share Save’. 
Developing our people
We are helping to grow the nation’s skills base by giving all our 
team members quality training. 
All new starters complete a 12-week programme, known as  
Your Greggs Welcome, that teaches them everything they need 
to know about health and safety, customer service and how we 
operate. High potential team members are invited to join our 
Career Pathways programme which provides support to prepare 
them for management roles. For those who are already 
managers, we have created the ‘Brilliant’ programme of bespoke 
workshops to help our people grow the specific skills we know 
they need to succeed. In 2015, 93 per cent of our managers 
received development support.
Women in the workplace
We are proud of our reputation for bringing the best talent 
through the business regardless of gender. This year our 
people were recognised for this success, with Suzanne Cooper, 
Bakery Manager at our Manchester site appointed a ‘Retail 
Ambassador of the Year’ at the EveryWoman Awards.  
In total, 71 per cent of our workforce and almost half of our 
management population are female. Of the eight Board posts, 
three are held by women. 
Gender of workforce
Female
3
5
51
86
344
369
14,544
5,929
Male
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
All 
employees
All graded 
managers 
Senior 
managers
Board
Giving people a Fresh Start
We know the passion and energy for work that comes from 
people who are given an opportunity to kick-start their careers 
or to turn their lives around, and have programmes in place to 
recruit and train accordingly. These programmes sit under the 
banner of ‘Fresh Start’. 
We believe in the principle that ‘no member of the Armed 
Forces Community should face disadvantage in the provision  
of public and commercial services compared to any other 
citizen’ and work closely with services and veteran groups  
to support the employability of veterans.
We provide training and work experience for people who are 
transitioning into work. We deliver training sessions in prisons 
for people who are nearing the end of a sentence and we give 
work experience to those who demonstrate potential. In 2015, 
more than 600 people benefitted from a training session and 
52 participants completed a four-week work placement with us.  
As a result, 47 of them secured a permanent job with us. 
Additionally, we partner with Job Centre Plus to offer the 
long-term unemployed work experience or paid employment. 
In 2015, we gave three people a work placement and provided 
24 with paid employment.  31 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
ENVIRONMENT
Our commitment: We aim to use energy efficiently  
and minimise waste
The success of our business is based on offering excellent value 
to our customers. One of the ways we do this is by paying close 
attention to every cost to our business, including our energy 
use or how much food waste we create.
Our carbon footprint
Our net carbon footprint in the 2015 financial year was 124,776 
tonnes of carbon dioxide and equivalent gases (CO
2
e), which 
represents an absolute reduction of seven per cent on our 2014 
emissions, and a 10.7 per cent reduction in intensity (which we 
measure as tonnes of CO
2
e per £ million turnover).
We are pleased to report that we have achieved our 2010 
ambition to reduce our emissions intensity by 25 per cent by 
2015. In the last year alone, we have reduced the energy intensity 
of our manufacturing operations by 4.94 per cent and retail 
operations by 6.23 per cent (calculated as kwh/£m turnover). 
Our photovoltaic arrays, which are installed on the roofs of ten 
of our bakeries, generated 1,012,696 kWh of electricity in 2015, 
saving almost 468 tonnes of carbon.
In line with Companies Act 2006 (strategic report and 
Directors’ report) Regulations 2013, we are reporting on our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as part of our annual strategic 
report. We have reported on all of the emission sources which 
we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Our GHG reporting year is the same as our financial year, 
4 January 2015 to 2 January 2016.
  
Current 
reporting 
year  
2015
(tonnes 
CO
2
e)
Comparison 
year
2014
(tonnes 
CO
2
e)
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel & 
operation of facilities 
31,509 31,313
Fugitive emissions from 
refrigeration 
4,360 5,691
Scope 2 Electricity purchased for 
own use (including PV 
generated electricity)
89,375 97,919
GROSS 
emissions
Total scope 1 and 2  
CO
2
e emissions
125,244 134,923
NET  
emissions
Total emissions excluding 
PV generated electricity
124,776 134,327
NET intensity 
measure
Tonnes of CO
2
e per 
£ million of turnover 
adjusted to account for 
use of renewable energy
149.3 167.1
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based  
on the UK Government’s Environmental Reporting Guidance 
(2013) and emission factors from UK Government’s GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Our 2014 emissions were verified by the Carbon Trust and,  
in 2015, we were again accredited to hold the Carbon Trust 
Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies.  
Our 2015 emissions are currently being verified by the Carbon 
Trust. In addition, we disclose our greenhouse gas emissions 
through the CDP.
Waste management
We divert 99.6 per cent of waste from our manufacturing sites 
away from landfill. We continue to work closely with our waste 
management partners to ensure that all of our waste streams 
are processed through the most sustainable routes.
To avoid wasting edible food in our shops, we aim to give away 
unsold food to community groups and charities. In the last year, 
we achieved our target of doubling food donations and have 
ambitious plans to grow this more in the years ahead. Some of 
our shops have direct links with local organisations and we also 
partner with the Trussell Trust and FareShare to donate food  
to worthy causes. We have now been working with FareShare 
for over a decade and supply eight of their regional  
distribution centres. 
  32 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Social responsibility
Community. We share our success with the people around us
Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets
We will extend the 
Greggs Breakfast 
Club scheme, 
developing 
the model’ s 
sustainability 
through 
partnerships 
and dedicated 
fundraising.
10% increase on 2014.
Fund 330 Breakfast Clubs.
19% increase on 2014. 
We are now funding 363 Breakfast Clubs.
Extend the Greggs Breakfast Club 
scheme to 400+ schools, working 
with our partners.
We will increase 
employee 
awareness of the 
work of the Greggs 
Foundation.
Team members agree: ‘I am proud 
of the work Greggs Foundation 
does in our local communities’ 
(Employee Opinion Survey).
89% of team members are proud  
of the work Greggs Foundation does  
in our local communities.
Support the Greggs Foundation 
to donate more than £2.0 million 
through our fundraising activity.
We will trial 
an education 
partnership to 
promote greater 
understanding of 
food and nutrition.
 Pilots conducted. We supported the Newcastle Falcons 
Foundation’s ‘Tackling Health’ initiative 
and, whilst we did not pilot our own 
planned initiative, we have made  
progress on this goal and will achieve  
it in the first half of 2016.
Support the delivery of engaging 
nutritional education in schools.
Customer health. We encourage healthy food-on-the-go choices
Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets
We will continue 
to increase 
the number of 
healthier options 
for customers.
Increase sales of Balanced Choice 
range by 15% to £65 million.
Annual sales of Balanced Choice products 
were £78.8 million, an increase of  
42% on 2014.
Target to increase Balanced 
Choice sales value by at least 
£5 million for 2016.
100% of pastries to meet DoH 
Responsibility Deal out of home 
salt targets.
100% of pastries now meet DoH 
Responsibility Deal out of home salt targets.
Introduce a Healthy Children’s 
Meal Menu.
100% of bread and rolls to meet 
DoH Responsibility Deal 2012  
salt targets.
100% of bread and rolls meet DoH 
Responsibility Deal 2012 salt targets.
To minimise the use of unfamiliar 
ingredients in our products we will 
initiate a structured plan for the 
implementation of Clean Label.
100% own label cold drinks to 
contain ‘no added sugar’.
100% of our own label cold drinks now 
contain ‘no added sugar’.
We will develop 
customer 
communications 
re: allergens.
Roll out of new customer 
communications plan re: allergens.
Customers can now access information 
about the presence of all major serious 
allergens, by recipe, in shops and online.
Conduct benchmarking survey  
of allergen data available  
to customers.
We conducted a thorough allergen data 
review of our competitors. As a result, 
it was concluded that our allergen data 
provision is in line with the industry. 
Therefore, we have continued with our 
current format and no further action  
was required. 
Social responsibility: 
achievements and targets
 Green indicates the target has been met.
 Amber indicates that the target/commitment is progressing on schedule but was not completed.
 Red indicates we did not meet the requirement for the given period of time. 33 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Responsible sourcing. We care about where our ingredients come from
Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets
We will work with 
our suppliers 
to ensure high 
standards of 
animal welfare.
Implement animal welfare strategy. We implemented an animal welfare policy. Only source Tuna from ‘FAD free’, 
‘FAD entanglement free’ or ‘pole 
and line’ methods of harvesting.
Achieve tier 3 ranking in the 
Business Benchmark on Farm 
Animal Welfare.
We achieved tier 3 ranking in Business 
Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
Develop standards and controls 
for Field to Fork (Spork) for our 
fresh produce.
Develop and trial a balance 
scorecard for suppliers.
We developed and trialled a balanced 
scorecard.
Achieve BRC Global Standard 
V7 at all bakery sites (certified as 
Grade A).
People. We are committed to creating a great place to work
Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets
We will make 
Greggs an even 
greater place  
to work.
2% increase in staff agreement with 
the statement ‘I would recommend 
Greggs as a great place to work’.
3% increase in staff agreeing with the 
statement ‘I would recommend Greggs  
as a great place to work’.
Maintain our 2015 employee 
engagement target (Employee 
Opinion Survey).
We will use our 
volunteering days 
to develop our 
people and add 
real value to our 
local communities.
30% of our committed volunteering 
days are matched to people’s skills 
and abilities.
29% of committed days were matched  
to people’s skills and abilities.
Ensure 30% of our volunteering 
days are matched to people’s skills 
and abilities.
We will drive our 
service culture 
across the 
business.
100% of teams participate  
in ‘Superstar Service’.
All team members across the business  
are invited to participate.
Continue to engage colleagues 
with ‘Superstar Service’  
business-wide.
100% of teams participate  
in ‘Your Ideas Matter’.
All team members across the business  
are invited to participate. In total we 
received 295 suggestions through  
‘Your Ideas Matter’.
Further drive our service culture 
through continued focus on ‘Your 
Ideas Matter’ to achieve a 100% 
response rate.
We will drive our 
diversity agenda.
80 apprenticeships given  
to school leavers.
91 apprenticeships were given to  
school leavers.
Undertake a National Equality 
Standards audit in 2016 enabling 
a three-year plan to be developed 
to receive accreditation in 2019.
We will improve 
employee safety/
reduce RIDDOR 
accidents.
10% reduction of reportable 
incidents per hours worked in 
supply chain.
We achieved a 28% reduction in 
reportable incidents per hours worked  
in our supply chain operations.
Supply: 10% reduction  
of reportable incidents per  
hours worked.
5% reduction of reportable 
incidents per hours worked in retail.
We did not achieve a reduction in 
reportable injuries in our retail operations.
Retail: 5% reduction  
of reportable incidents per  
hours worked.
We will continue 
to utilise the skills 
of our people 
to improve the 
employability 
of people from 
marginalised 
groups.
Team members are encouraged  
to support the programme.
People are given support through 
the programme.
111 graded managers supported the 
programme.
611 people given support through the 
programme.
Increase the impact of our Fresh 
Start programmes through 
offering 450 opportunities in 2016.
Environment. We aim to use energy efficiently and minimise waste
Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets
We will complete 
our five-year 
target to reduce 
our carbon 
emission per £m 
turnover by 25% 
(compared to 2010 
baseline).
Deliver 1.5% improvement in 
logistics distribution fuel efficiency 
(measure in ‘miles per gallon’).
We improved fuel efficiency in our 
logistics distribution by 0.5%.
Complete certification of our 
Environmental Management 
System to ISO 14001.
Reduce electricity usage  
across our retail operations  
by 3% (measured in Kwh per 
£million turnover).
We reduced the amount of energy we use 
in our retail operations by 6.2%.
Minimise the impacts from 
Climate Change through the 
development and delivery of an 
engagement plan for our staff  
and customers.
Reduce energy usage (electricity 
and gas) in our supply chain 
operations by 3% (measured in Kwh 
per £million turnover).
We reduced the amount of energy  
we use in our supply chain operations  
by 4.9%.
Further develop waste 
management practices to  
ensure long-term focus on 
resource efficiency over and  
above recycling.
We will again 
double the 
amount of unsold 
food that we 
donate to  
good causes.
100% increase on 2014
Donate 200 tonnes.
We gave away 423.1 tonnes of food to 
good causes, double our target.
Increase the amount of unsold 
food that we donate to good 
causes by at least 50% (based  
on 2015 result). 34 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board of Directors and Secretary
Name and title
Ian Durant 
Chairman
Roger Whiteside 
Chief Executive
Richard Hutton FCA
Finance Director
Raymond Reynolds 
Retail Director
Biography Ian has a background in 
international finance and 
commercial management, 
with experience in the retail, 
property, hotels and 
transport sectors. His career 
includes leadership roles 
with the retail division of 
Hanson and Jardine 
Matheson, HongKong Land, 
Dairy Farm International, 
Thistle Hotels and Sea 
Containers and as Finance 
Director of Liberty 
International. 
Roger began his career at 
Marks and Spencer where  
he spent 20 years, ultimately 
becoming head of its food 
business. He was then one of 
the founding team of Ocado, 
serving as Joint MD from 
2000 to 2004. From 2004 to 
2007 Roger led a successful 
turnaround as Chief 
Executive of the Thresher 
Group off-licence chain 
before joining Punch 
Taverns, ultimately 
becoming Chief Executive. 
Roger was appointed as 
Chief Executive of Greggs 
on 4 February 2013.
Richard qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with 
KPMG and gained career 
experience with Procter  
& Gamble before joining 
Greggs in 1998. Richard  
has previously been a 
non-executive director of 
Northern Recruitment  
Group and is a trustee of  
the Greggs Foundation.
Raymond is a career retail 
professional. He joined 
Greggs in 1986 in field 
management and 
progressed his career 
through a number of roles  
in Scotland, ultimately 
becoming Managing 
Director for that region in 
2002. He was appointed to 
the Board in 2006 after four 
successful years growing the 
Scottish arm of the business.
Appointed since 5 October 2011 17 March 2008 (Non-
Executive Director until 
3 February 2013)
13 March 2006 18 December 2006
Independent Yes Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
External  
appointments
Chairman of Capital and 
Counties PLC; Non-
Executive Director of Greene 
King plc and Home Retail 
Group PLC.
No external appointments. Member of Business in  
the Community’s Finance 
and Risk Committee.
Trustee of the Alnwick 
Garden Trust.
Director of the Sunderland 
Business Improvement 
District and North East 
Chamber of Commerce 
Board member.
Committee  
membership
Chair of Nominations 
Committee
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 35 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Allison Kirkby 
Non-Executive 
Director
Helena Ganczakowski 
Non-Executive 
Director
Peter McPhillips 
Non-Executive 
Director
Sandra Turner 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
Jonathan Jowett 
Company Secretary 
and General Counsel
Allison is currently the 
President and CEO of Tele 2 
AB, a major European 
telecoms company. Prior to 
Tele 2 AB, where she joined 
as CFO, Allison spent two 
decades in the FMCG sector 
at Procter & Gamble in a 
variety of senior financial and 
operational roles before 
moving to the TMT sector, 
first at Virgin Media and then 
as Group CFO at Shine,  
a division of 21st Century 
Fox. Allison is a Fellow of  
the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Helena worked for Unilever 
for 23 years and held  
senior positions in brand 
management and marketing, 
including UK Marketing 
Director and ultimately  
Head of Global Agencies. 
Helena has a PhD in 
Engineering from the 
University of Cambridge.
Peter spent most of his 
executive career in food 
manufacturing, having held  
a number of executive 
positions including Divisional 
Managing Director of 
Hillsdown Holdings, Director 
of Terranova (the chilled 
foods business demerged 
from Hillsdown Holdings) 
and ultimately as UK 
Managing Director of Uniq 
plc. More recently, Peter was 
European Chairman of Hain  
Celestial Group. 
Sandra has been involved in 
the retail sector throughout 
her career and was 
employed by Tesco PLC from 
1987 to 2009, latterly as 
Commercial Director for 
Tesco Ireland. Prior to this 
she worked in sales and 
marketing roles for Unilever 
and Wilkinson Sword. 
Jonathan is a lawyer by 
profession and has held  
the position of Company 
Secretary for a number of 
FTSE 250 and FTSE Smallcap 
companies. His previous 
employers include Avon 
Cosmetics Limited, SSL 
International plc, Wagon plc 
and Bakkavor Group.
30 January 2013 2 January 2014 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010
Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable
No additional activities. Non-Executive Director  
of Croda International Plc 
and also owner-manager  
of a consulting business 
working with companies 
ranging from start-up 
businesses to FTSE 100 
constituents, helping  
them to develop and 
implement strategies.
Non-Executive Director  
of Browns Food Group,  
a privately-owned chilled 
and frozen food producer.
Non-Executive Director  
of Carpetright plc, McBride 
plc and Huhtämaki OYJ. 
Member of the British Retail 
Consortium Policy Board; 
Trustee director of the Percy 
Hedley Foundation.
Chair of Audit  
Committee; Remuneration 
and Nominations  
Committee member
Audit, Remuneration  
and Nominations  
Committee member
Audit, Remuneration  
and Nominations  
Committee member
Chair of Remuneration 
Committee; Audit  
and Nominations  
Committee member
Secretary to the Board and  
all its Committees 36 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Report of the Directors
Directors and their interests
The names of the Directors in office during the year, together with their relevant interests in the share capital of the Company at 
3 January 2015 and 2 January 2016, are set out in Note 26 to the accounts. Details of the Directors’ share options are set out in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on page 62.
In accordance with provision B.7.1 of the Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board at the AGM and offer 
themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The Nominations Committee has considered the appropriateness and suitability of each Director standing for election and has 
recommended to the Board that each individual should be put forward for re-election.
Directors’ indemnities and conflicts
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the 
extent permitted by law, in respect of losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their duties, powers or 
responsibilities as Directors of the Company. The indemnities do not apply in situations where the relevant Director has been 
guilty of fraud or wilful misconduct.
Under the authority granted to them in the Company’s articles of association, the Board has considered carefully any situation 
declared by any Director pursuant to which they have or might have a conflict of interest and, where it considers it appropriate to 
do so, has authorised the continuation of that situation. In exercising its authority, the Directors have had regard to their statutory 
and other duties to the Company.
Additional information
 – The information set out within the governance report in pages 38 to 43 forms part of the Directors’ report.
 – Greenhouse gas emissions: All disclosures concerning the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions (as required to be disclosed 
under the Companies Act 2006 (strategic report and Directors’ report) Regulations 2013, are contained in the social 
responsibility section of the strategic review on page 31.
Authority to purchase shares
At the AGM on 30 April 2015, the shareholders passed a resolution authorising the purchase by the Company of its own shares  
to a maximum of 10,350,000 ordinary shares of 2p each.
That authority had not been used as at 3 January 2016.
The authority remains in force until the conclusion of the AGM in 2016 or 31 July 2016, whichever is the earlier. It is the Board’s 
intention to seek approval at the 2016 AGM for the renewal of this authority.
Takeover directive information
Following the implementation of the European Directive on Takeover Bids by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006  
(CA 2006), the Company is required to disclose certain additional information in the Directors’ report. This information is set  
out below:
 – The Company has one class of share in issue being ordinary shares of 2p each. As at 1 March 2016, there were 101,155,901 such 
ordinary shares in issue. There are no shares in the Company that grant the holder special rights with regard to the control of 
the Company.
 – At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote only 
and, in the case of a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share in the capital of the 
Company held by him or her.
 – The Company’s articles of association set out the circumstances in which shares may become disenfranchised. No shareholder 
is entitled, unless the Directors otherwise determine, in respect of any share held by him to be present or vote at a general 
meeting either personally or by proxy (or to exercise any other right in relation to meetings of the Company) in respect of  
that share in certain circumstances if any call or other sum is payable and remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in default in 
complying with a duly served notice under section 793(1) of the CA 2006 or if any shareholder has failed to reply to a duly 
served notice requiring him or her to provide a written statement stating he or she is the beneficial owner of the shares.
 – A notice convening a general meeting can contain a statement that a shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a general 
meeting unless his or her name is entered on the register of members of the Company at a specific time (not more than 48 
hours before the meeting) and if a shareholder’s name is not so entered he or she is not entitled to attend and vote.
 – Under the Company’s articles of association the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a 
share in certified form in certain circumstances where the Company has a lien on the share (provided that the Directors do not 
exercise their discretion so as to prevent dealings in partly paid shares from taking place on an open and proper basis), where  
a shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice under section 793(1) CA 2006 or if a transfer of a share is in favour of 
more than four persons jointly. In addition, the Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in 
respect of only one class of share and is deposited at the address at which the register of members of the Company is held (or 
at such other place as the Directors may determine) accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence  37 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer. In respect of shares held in 
uncertificated form the Directors may only refuse to register transfers in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001 (as amended from time to time).
 – Under the Company’s code on dealings in securities in the Company, persons discharging managerial responsibilities and 
some other senior executives may in certain circumstances be restricted as to when they can transfer shares in the Company.
 – There are no agreements between shareholders known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
shares or on voting rights.
 – Details of significant holders of the Company’s shares are set out on page 43.
 – Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not  
the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
 – The Company’s articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
 – The Company’s articles of association set out how Directors are appointed and replaced. Directors can be appointed by the 
Board or by the shareholders in a general meeting. At each Annual General Meeting, any Director appointed by the Board 
since the last Annual General Meeting must retire from office but is eligible for election by the shareholders. Furthermore,  
the Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code provision B.7.1, all the Directors will be subject to annual re-election 
by shareholders. Under the CA 2006 and the Company’s articles of association, a Director can be removed from office by the 
shareholders in a general meeting.
 – The Company’s articles of association set out the powers of the Directors. The business of the Company is to be managed  
by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company and do on behalf of the Company all such acts as may be 
exercised and done by the Company and are not by any relevant statutes or the Company’s articles of association required to 
be exercised or done by the Company in general meeting, subject to the provisions of any relevant statutes and the Company’s 
articles of association and to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Company by special resolution.
 – Under the CA 2006 and the Company’s articles of association, the Directors’ powers include the power to allot and buyback 
shares in the Company. At each Annual General Meeting, resolutions are proposed granting and setting limits on these powers.
 – The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change in control of the 
Company, following a takeover bid.
 – There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office 
or employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. 
Details of the Directors’ service agreements and terms of appointment are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 49 to 65. However, provisions in the employee share plans operated by the Company may allow options to be exercised 
on a takeover.
Employees
Applications for employment of disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff being disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the 
Company continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Company that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications and good relations with employees. Communication takes a 
number of forms including weekly briefings and bulletins. More details on our employee relations can be found on page 30 in the 
social responsibility report.
Significant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with any single party which are essential to the business of the 
Group and, therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed. 38 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Board has an excellent 
commitment to team performance 
and a positive determination to  
drive the business forward.
Chairman’s introduction
Dear shareholder,
Welcome to the Board’s governance report for 2015.
Following the changes that were made in 2014, the Board 
composition has remained stable during 2015, which has 
enabled the Non-Executive Directors to build upon their 
knowledge to ensure that they can support and challenge  
the management team in its execution of our strategy. 
We undertook our first externally-facilitated Board evaluation, 
and the results are set out below. The report concludes that 
“there is an excellent commitment to team performance and a 
positive determination to drive the business forward”. I would 
like to take the opportunity to thank Nigel Davies, of NJMD 
Corporate Services, for conducting the evaluation on our behalf.
The Board has worked together really well, despite the short 
terms of office of several of the Non-Executive Directors and  
I see strong, but challenging, relationships being built with  
the Chief Executive and his senior team. We continue to 
operate in our culture of openness, challenge and debate,  
and the size of the Board facilitates this. Each of the Non-
Executive Directors serves on each of the three main Board 
committees and is able to take account of the relationship 
between the work of the committees. 
During the year, the Board has been able to focus on 
overseeing the delivery by the executive of the key priorities 
that were set for the business, and as reported elsewhere,  
we have had another successful year.
As we did for the first time at our 2014 Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), in April 2015, we asked shareholders to vote by poll.  
I am pleased to say that the process is now established, and 
the resolutions were strongly supported by shareholders both 
institutional and private, for which I offer my thanks on behalf  
of the Board. 
 
Our two main committees, Audit and Remuneration, have  
again had a quieter year in terms of their need to adopt new 
legal and governance requirements. The Audit Committee 
reports on pages 44 to 48 on how it has risen to the new 
requirements of the September 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which has applied to the Company 
throughout the financial year.
I would also draw your attention to the new requirement  
for the Board to make a ‘viability statement’. The Board’s 
consideration of this can be found on page 25. 
I look forward to welcoming shareholders to the AGM which 
will be held on 10 May 2016 and to receiving and answering 
your questions.
Ian Durant 
Chairman
1 March 2016
Governance 39 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
The Board
Chief Executive
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Operating Board
Audit Committee
Risk Committee
Social Responsibility 
Steering Group
The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The edition  
of the Code issued in September 2014 applied throughout  
the 2015 financial year. This Governance report, together with 
information contained elsewhere within the Directors’ report, 
describes how the relevant principles and provisions of the 
Governance Code were applied in 2015 and will be relevant  
to the Company for the 2016 financial year.
The Company was re-elected to the FTSE 350 index on 
22 December 2014 and has remained a constituent of that 
index throughout 2015. The Company maintains a Premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board confirms that it was compliant with the Governance 
Code throughout the year, and all of the policies and terms of 
reference referred to in this report are available on the 
corporate website at: http://corporate.greggs.co.uk. 
The Board
Effectiveness
The Chairman chairs the Nominations Committee whose 
primary function is to consider the blend of skills and 
experience that the Directors bring to the Board. This includes 
independent and objective experience of food retailing and 
manufacturing, finance, marketing, property and corporate 
finance to complement the existing skills and experience of  
the Executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties. At these 
meetings, it reviews strategy and financial performance against  
key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters 
reserved for the Board. Whilst executive responsibility for 
running the Company’s business rests ultimately with the  
Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that  
the strategies proposed by the Chief Executive and the 
Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined 
prior to adoption.
The Board generally schedules six meetings per year and 
meets on an ad hoc basis as required. In 2015 one additional 
short meeting was held to consider the plans for the 
redistribution of capital.
The Board also holds one session each year, with all of the 
Operating Board in attendance, to consider strategy and key 
priorities in the next financial year.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is 
recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings 
actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that 
the individual could have attended.
Main Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Number of  
meetings held 7 4 3 2
Ian Durant 7/7 – – 2/2
Roger Whiteside 7/7 – – –
Richard Hutton 7/7 – – –
Raymond Reynolds 7/7 – – –
Helena Ganczakowski
1
6/7 3/4 3/3 2/2
Allison Kirkby 7/7 4/4 3/3 2/2
Peter McPhillips
2
7/7 4/4 2/3 2/2
Sandra Turner 7/7 4/4 3/3 2/2
1. Helena was unable to attend one Board and an Audit Committee meeting (held on  
the same day) but had reviewed all papers beforehand and provided a number of 
observations and questions that were raised by other Directors.
2. Peter provided his views on the Remuneration Committee meeting that he could  
not attend, to the Chair in advance. 40 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance continued
During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors undertook a number of visits and  
meetings as part of the day-to-day running of the business, in order to ensure that they were sufficiently 
well-versed in operations to facilitate strong support and challenge. This is what the Non-Executive 
Directors had to say about their experiences:
“ It is important that  
Non-Executive Directors 
understand all aspects  
of the business, including 
3am shop deliveries  
of fresh sandwich 
ingredients.”
Ian Durant 
Night-time deliveries
“ Seating is what our 
customers have said  
they want, and we try  
to accommodate them 
wherever possible.”
Allison Kirkby 
Visit to new Glasgow mall shop 
“ It is critical that we  
look at our shops as 
customers actually 
experience them, and 
hear first-hand their 
feedback.”
Sandra Turner  
Visiting shops with the Retail team
“ Freshers’ Fairs show  
the potential for Greggs 
among the student 
population on campus.”
Helena Ganczakowski 
Attending Freshers’ Fair with the Marketing team
“ Seeing the supply  
chain from crops in  
the field to flour in the 
bakery helps to provide 
an understanding of raw 
material costs.”
Peter McPhillips 
Accompanying the Commercial Director  
on a supplier visit 41 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, the Chairman 
solicits his or her views on key items of business ahead of the 
meeting, in order that all individual views are presented at  
the meeting.
All Directors are invited to attend the Audit Committee  
and the Chief Executive attends the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet formally twice 
each year and from time to time, as required.
Board modus operandi
The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Chairman sets the 
agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific 
Schedule of Matters Reserved policy (which is reviewed and 
approved annually), and ensures that the Board is supplied,  
in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. 
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls  
the Company. All Directors take decisions objectively and in 
the interests of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors 
scrutinise the performance of management in meeting  
agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of 
performance. All Directors receive induction training on joining 
the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge 
through reading, attendance on relevant courses and/or 
activities outside the Company. 
At each Board meeting, the Board receives and discusses 
reports from each of the Executive Directors and the Company 
Secretary. Additionally, and as part of the process of 
maintaining an awareness of the Company’s activities and 
assessing the ability of the management team, members of the 
senior management team are invited to attend Board meetings 
to present papers to the Board. This process also affords senior 
managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention  
of the Board. During the year, the Board received regular 
updates including:
 – Key priority progress and strategic developments.
 – Customer insight, competitor activity, marketing  
and category plans.
 – The ERP integration programme.
 – Supply chain developments.
 – Wage negotiations and people issues.
 – Food safety and health and safety.
The Board sets itself a rolling agenda, which facilitates  
agenda planning for scheduled meetings across the year.  
In this way the Board monitors its activities and ensures  
that it is operating effectively. 
Diversity
The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company  
to bring more women through to the top levels of the 
organisation and, as a result of this belief, a programme was 
launched in 2012 to encourage women to strive for the most 
senior positions in the business. Our gender reporting is  
now contained within page 30 of the social responsibility report.
Succession, development and evaluation
The Board is satisfied that a process is in place for  
orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior 
management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of  
skills and experience within the Company and on the Board. 
The Chief Executive meets with the Chairman and the  
Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in order that 
succession and development plans can be drawn up for 
Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
All Directors are able to receive training and to take 
independent professional advice at the expense of the 
Company. They also have direct access to the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on  
all governance matters.
Evaluation
The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all 
Directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process. 
In 2014 the Board identified that it should review the way in 
which social responsibility was positioned at Board meetings  
to include a consideration of the Company’s vision and values. 
As a consequence of that review, progress against social 
responsibility priorities were presented at each Board meeting 
in the same way as the key priorities for the year and at the 
strategy meeting held mid-year, the Board approved the social 
responsibility priorities for 2016, alongside its core business plans.
For the first time in 2015 the Board had its annual evaluation 
facilitated by an external consultant. The Company Secretary 
conducted an informal tender process, and subsequently  
the Board appointed Nigel Davies of NJMD Corporate  
Services to provide support. Mr. Davies had no prior link  
with the Company.
Each Director and the Secretary responded directly to 
Mr. Davies’ questionnaire, which was followed up with a 
face-to-face discussion. Mr. Davies then prepared a report for 
the Board, which was tabled at its meeting in December 2015.  
The report concluded that:
 “There is an excellent commitment to team performance and a 
positive determination to drive the business forward… We have 
not found any areas of major concern or identified any matters 
which are of a particular concern to individual Directors”.
Following a review of the report, the Directors asked a number 
of questions of themselves, and agreed a number of actions to 
be undertaken during 2016 including:
 – Increase formality of risk appetite review.
 – Introduce formal process for the review of  
significant decisions.
The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least 
annually without the Executive Directors present, and the 
Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive 
Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise 
the Chairman’s performance. 42 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Re-election of Directors
The Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code 
provision B.7.1, all Directors will be subject to annual re-
election by shareholders. Following recommendation by the 
Nominations Committee, all of the Non-Executive Directors 
who will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting are considered by the Board to be independent in 
character and judgement and are free from any business or 
other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or  
to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Board committees 
The Board delegates some of its activities to the following 
committees, each of which has written terms of reference, 
which are available on the Company’s website. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to and is in attendance at each of 
these committees, and each of the committees is provided  
with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent 
Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby (Chair), Helena 
Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner. The 
Committee met four times in the year, and a fuller report  
on its activities is set out on pages 44 to 48.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four 
independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner (Chair), 
Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips. The 
Committee’s main duties (that it discharged during the year) 
are set out within the Directors’ remuneration report which is 
set out on pages 49 to 65 of this annual report. This includes 
for information purposes the Board’s Policy on Remuneration, 
which was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 
1 May 2014. A separate Executive Director committee, after 
discussion with the Chairman, sets the fees for the Non-
Executive Directors so as to ensure that no Director is involved 
in setting his or her own remuneration. 
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant 
(Chairman) and all of the Non-Executive Directors. The 
Committee’s main functions (which it discharged during the 
year) are to review the balance and constitution of the Board;  
to advise the Board as to whether Directors should be 
nominated for re-election by the members; and to approve  
and manage the process for setting the specification for all 
Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that 
specification and making recommendations to the Board on 
the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in 
respect of all new Board appointments.
In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee 
defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in 
identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee 
selects a short list and conducts interviews. The final candidate 
is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee 
and approval by the Board.
The Nominations Committee did not seek external consultancy 
support during 2015.
Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an 
in-depth tailored induction process. In the case of Non-
Executive Directors, this includes meeting with members of  
the Operating Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices,  
and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which 
contains key information and policies that are relevant to the 
position. For new Executive Directors, and Non-Executive 
Directors for whom the appointment is their first to a UK-listed 
company, the induction includes details of the legal duties and 
obligations of being a Director of the Company.
New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to provide 
formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board 
during a scheduled Board meeting.
Risk management
Details of the Company’s principal risks and the management 
of them are set out within the strategic report and given on 
pages 24 to 25.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness  
of the system of internal control (covering all material controls, 
including financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management systems) during the year under review and up  
to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Relations with shareholders
The Board ensures that there is effective communication  
with individual and institutional shareholders through the 
announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general 
presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary 
results and the posting of results on the Company’s website. 
The Board receives reports on any comments received from 
shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out 
extensive engagement with institutional shareholders and 
market analysts, meeting them as part of Company 
presentations and briefings, holding individual meetings  
or telephone calls. 
The Chairman has undertaken three meetings with significant 
shareholders during the year. Topics of conversation included 
culture, Board composition and executive remuneration.
The Company Secretary and the Company’s Brokers draw  
the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder 
communications. The Board also reviews briefings and 
comments by analysts and shareholders in order to maintain  
an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is well attended and  
a short presentation of business performance is given to 
attendees by the Chief Executive (although no non-public 
sensitive information is shared). The Chairman and the Chairs  
of the Board Committees are available to answer any issues 
raised and any newly-appointed Directors being available to 
meet shareholders. During informal sessions both before and 
after the meeting, the Chairman and all Directors are available 
to meet with any of the 60 or so individual private shareholders 
who are in attendance and who wish to ask questions. This is  
in addition to the opportunity given to shareholders to ask 
questions of the Board during the formal meeting, which 
session is always welcomed by those in attendance. In 2015, 
information stalls were set up at the entrance to the meeting 
informing shareholders of the Company’s progress on key 
social responsibility topics, including farm animal welfare.
Governance continued 43 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
At each AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against 
each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.  
All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report 
and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate 
resolutions. All resolutions were strongly supported by 
shareholders, and were determined by poll, in accordance  
with best practice.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders  
if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve 
through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive 
or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact 
would not be appropriate.
The Company provides on its website: www.greggs.co.uk a 
significant amount of information both about its customer 
offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as 
detailed information on the governance arrangements.
Substantial shareholdings
At 1 March 2016 the only notified holdings of substantial voting 
rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company 
(which may have altered since the date of such notification, 
without any requirement for the Company to have been 
informed) were:
Number of  
shares held
Percentage  
of issued  
share capital
Old Mutual Group 7,957,333 7.87%
Standard Life 5,153,213 5.09%
FMR 5,027,000 4.96%
Norges Bank 3,048,851 3.01%
Accountability, audit and going concern
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. In order to assist the Board to comply 
with the requirements within the Governance Code, the Audit 
Committee was requested to undertake an assessment of the 
annual report and to make a recommendation to the Board. 
This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committee’s 
terms of reference, which are available at: www.greggs.co.uk.
The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming 
its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed 
review that has been undertaken by the Head of Business 
Assurance and reviewing the annual report as a whole to 
conform that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment. In considering the advice of the Audit Committee, 
and having reviewed the annual report including the contents 
of the strategic report on pages 01 to 33, together with the 
statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the 
annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable, and provides the necessary information 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
A statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
preparation of accounts is given on page 66. A statement  
of auditor’s responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor 
on page 69.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the next 12 months. For this reason, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts (see basis of preparation on page 76). For the first 
time, the Board is required to make a ‘viability statement’ in 
accordance with Code provision C.2.2; this can be found on 
page 25. 
Policies
Freedom of association
At Greggs, we recognise the right of all employees to freedom 
of association and collective bargaining. Whilst we do not have 
a formal ‘Freedom of Association’ policy, the Company 
encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices  
to become, and remain, members of a union.
Bribery and corruption
Greggs has an ‘Anti-Bribery and Corruption’ policy which 
applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, 
seeking or acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person 
or company by anyone acting on its behalf, in order to gain an 
advantage in an unethical way.
Business conduct
We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical 
behaviour that are expected of all employees.
Whistle-blowing
Our ‘whistle-blowing’ policy creates an environment where 
employees are able to raise concerns without fears of 
disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any 
disclosure. Any matters raised are treated in confidence and  
an independent review will be undertaken where this is 
appropriate. The Chair of the Audit Committee is the 
designated first point of contact for any concerns which cannot 
be addressed through normal management processes.
Political donations
Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or 
contributions. This includes financial and in-kind contributions 
made by the Company.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval  
of this Directors’ report confirms that, so far as they are 
individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and that they have taken all 
the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Jonathan D Jowett
Company Secretary
Greggs plc (CRN 502851)
Fernwood House
Clayton Road
Jesmond
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE2 1TL
1 March 2016 44 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Introduction
I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee 
for 2015.
The Committee plays an important part in the governance  
of the Company with its principal activities focused on the 
integrity of financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of 
internal and external audit, risk management and the system  
of internal control.
I have set out below the main matters considered by the 
Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.  
We meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar 
and the agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all 
significant areas of risk over the course of the year and to 
provide oversight and challenge to the key financial 
judgements, controls and processes that operate within  
the Company.
The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review 
in the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of 
best practice. In particular, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code has taken effect for the first time in our 2015 financial 
year and we are awaiting finalisation of the UK implementation 
of the EU Directive and Regulation on statutory audit.
Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee 
enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters 
impacting the Company during the year, along with oversight 
of the governance and operation of its key controls and 
ultimately to draw the conclusions set out in the report below.
Allison Kirkby
Chair of the Audit Committee
1 March 2016
Audit Committee report 
The activities of the  
Committee enable it to gain a 
good understanding of the key  
matters impacting the Company. 45 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Composition
The Audit Committee is comprised of the following:
Allison Kirkby (Chair)
Helena Ganczakowski 
Peter McPhillips 
Sandra Turner 
It is the practice of the Company for all independent  
Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit 
Committee. There have been no changes in the composition  
of the Committee during 2015.
Training is provided for any new members of the Audit 
Committee by way of a thorough induction process which 
includes access to the external auditor, the Head of Business 
Assurance and relevant members of management.
The Directors’ biographies on pages 34 and 35 detail the 
Committee members’ previous experience. The Board 
considers that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial 
experience and is confident that the collective experience  
of the members enables them to act effectively as an  
Audit Committee.
Role and responsibilities
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: 
corporate.greggs.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-governance/
company-documents.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are:
 – ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the 
Company are proper and effective;
 – assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information 
published by the Company and reviewing significant 
financial judgements contained in them;
 – advising the Board on whether it believes the annual report 
and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary  
for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy;
 – reviewing the internal financial controls and the Group’s 
approach to risk management;
 – oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements;
 – monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the 
recommendations of the Governance Code;
 – oversight of the Company’s external and internal auditors  
and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit 
process; and
 – reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its 
responsibilities.
Meetings during the year
The Audit Committee met four times during the year. Details  
of Committee members’ attendance is given on page 39.
The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the 
Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and the 
external auditor to attend its meetings. Time is set aside 
bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the 
Head of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of all 
Executive Directors. The Committee also has access to the 
Company’s management team and to its auditor and can seek 
further professional advice, at the Company’s cost, if required. 
The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director, and 
internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled 
Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are 
addressed. She also has access to and, in 2015, made contact 
with an audit partner independent of the partner responsible 
for the audit.
Financial reporting
In 2015 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2014 annual report, 
interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports 
from the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews  
and audits.
During the year, and up to the date of this report, the 
Committee considered key accounting issues and judgements 
and related disclosures in the Group’s accounts. The significant 
areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to 
the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 
are as follows: 
  46 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Area of focus Action taken
Dilapidations
Dilapidation provisions have been made based on the future expected 
repair costs required to restore the Group’s leased buildings to their fair 
condition at the end of their respective lease terms, where it is considered  
a reliable estimate can be made.
The balance held in respect of dilapidation provisions at the end of the year 
was £3,343,000 (2014: £3,456,000). 
The Committee reviewed management’s assessment of the need for 
dilapidation provisions and concluded that the principles applied  
were appropriate.
Accounting for onerous leases 
Onerous lease provisions have been made for shops which have been 
vacated, have been identified for closure or re-site or are not generating 
sufficient profits to cover the lease costs in full. The key area of judgement 
in making this provision is the determination of the length of time it will take 
to find a suitable exit opportunity for each lease. 
The onerous lease provision held on the balance sheet at 2 January 2016  
is £2,289,000 (2014: £3,155,000).
The Committee reviewed management’s assessment in respect of these 
leases and concluded that the assumptions made were appropriate. 
Asset impairment
The financial statements include asset impairment provisions made by 
assessing expected future cash flows. The results of the impairment reviews 
were presented by management to the Committee based on the following 
methodologies. For shop assets historic cash flows including attributable 
overheads are used as a base, with a 0% growth rate and a discount rate of 
10% applied over an appropriate period based on the remaining lease term. 
For supply chain assets the potential net realisable value of the sites was 
considered and the net book value of any obsolete equipment compared  
to its recoverable amount. 
The carrying value of fixed assets at the end of the year is reduced by 
impairment provisions totalling £3,445,000 (2014: £4,186,000).
The Audit Committee considered the sensitivities of the assumptions  
used and assessed whether any reversal of impairment was indicated by 
improved trading in the impaired shops. It concluded that the impairment 
provisions were appropriate and that they reflected suitably the future plans 
of the business.
Going concern
The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial 
plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable them  
to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting  
remained appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and 
concluded that the Board is able to make the going concern statement on 
page 43 of the Directors’ report.
Viability
Recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced a new 
requirement for the Board to consider the period over which they are able 
to conclude that the Company will remain viable, having taken into account 
severe but plausible risks and risk combinations. On account of this being a 
new requirement, the Committee considered this to be a significant 
reporting matter.
The Committee reviewed the process undertaken by management to 
support and allow the Directors to make the Group’s Viability Statement. 
The Committee considered and provided input into the determination of 
which of the Group’s principal risks and combinations thereof might have an 
impact on the Group’s liquidity and solvency. The Committee reviewed the 
results of management’s scenario modelling and the stress testing of these 
models. The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used 
and concluded that the Board is able to make the viability statement on 
page 25 of the strategic report.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes
The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends on the 
selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rates 
and mortality rates.
The net liability held in relation to defined benefit pension schemes at  
the end of 2015 was £3,910,000 (2014: £8,518,000).
Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Company by 
independent actuaries. The Committee assessed the underlying 
assumptions and concluded that they were appropriate and also discussed 
the appropriateness of the assumptions with the external auditor.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on whether it  
believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,  
balanced and understandable.
The Committee received a report from the Head of Business Assurance who 
is not involved in the preparation of the annual report and accounts and 
who conducted an independent review of it. The following factors were 
considered during the course of this review:
 – ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another;
 – verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the 
relevant financial detail;
 – identifying any duplication of information;
 – confirming that ‘bad news’ is included, as well as ‘good news’; and
 – highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report alongside  
its own review of the annual report and accounts when making its 
recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
Audit Committee report continued 47 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
The Committee also considered other key accounting issues 
and related disclosures in the Group’s financial statements  
as follows: 
 – whether any changes in accounting policy were required 
following changes in the business or in legislation;
 – whether the Company’s tax policy remains appropriate;
 – the impact of changes in accounting standards and their 
relevance, if any, to the Company; and
 – reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director 
which assess the Company’s compliance with Listing Rules.
External audit
Assessing external audit effectiveness
The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the 
audit with the external auditor and agreed their fees in respect 
of the audit. 
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external 
audit in line with the Financial Reporting Council’s ‘Practice aid 
for audit committees’ which was issued in 2015. It considered 
the results of external quality inspections by the Audit Quality 
Inspection Team of KPMG. It sought feedback from senior 
management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in respect of 
the effectiveness of the audit process with particular reference 
to audit planning and design and audit execution.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit 
through the reporting from and communications with the 
auditor and an assessment of the auditor’s approach to key 
areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course 
of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that 
the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be 
kept under review. 
Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services 
KPMG has been the Company’s auditor for more than 20 years 
and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial 
change of audit firms no later than 2020. Having reappointed 
KPMG in 2014 following a competitive tender, the Committee 
expects to change audit firms in accordance with the 
requirements of the EU Directive. The Committee will continue 
to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for 
audit quality or independence reasons.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor (including 
the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it) and its 
suitability for re-appointment. 
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the  
provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does  
not compromise the auditor’s independence or objectivity.  
It monitors the level and type of non-audit fees on an annual 
basis and ensures that the overall level of non-audit fees 
remains in line with current ethical guidance governing the 
accounting profession.
The Audit Committee favours a presumption that non-audit 
work will be awarded to a firm other than the audit firm unless 
there is a good reason to use the auditors. An annual base plan 
for non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is agreed in 
advance by the Audit Committee. Expenditure in accordance 
with this plan can then be committed without further referral  
to the Audit Committee. Expenditure that is not included in the 
agreed plan is subject to strict authority limits and is reviewed 
by the Committee.
All use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be 
reported to and approved by the Committee. In circumstances 
where non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee,  
an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit 
Committee report. In addition, the Audit Committee ensures 
that the external auditor has its own policies and is subject to 
professional standards designed to safeguard their 
independence as auditor.
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied 
that, the Company’s auditor, KPMG LLP, continues to be 
objective and independent of the Company. KPMG LLP  
does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit 
Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired  
by such work.
The FRC have yet to conclude their deliberations on the 
implementation of the EC Audit Directive and Regulation in  
the UK. Their consultation document and emerging best 
practice suggest that KPMG will not be able to undertake any 
‘blacklisted’ non-audit work if they remain as auditor beyond 
the effective date for the EU implementation of 17 June 2016, 
but the Committee will review the position once the FRC 
guidance has been finalised and take appropriate action  
at that time.
In 2015, non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP and related KPMG 
operations amounted to £52,000 (which is 37 per cent of the 
audit fee for the year) and principally related to taxation 
services and pension scheme audits. 
Reappointment of auditor 
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006,  
a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Risk management and internal control
Internal Control
The Committee reviewed the Company’s internal control 
environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place  
to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels  
for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and 
performance is regularly monitored. Processes are in place  
to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance 
with these processes is the subject of inspection by the Internal 
Audit team and subsequent review by the Audit Committee.  48 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Whistle-blowing
The Company’s whistle-blowing policy is made available to  
all employees through the intranet, as well as via posters 
displayed across the business. This gives information regarding 
how to raise a concern in strict confidence. Three reports were 
made during the year, all relating to health and safety issues. 
The events were reported either directly to the Chair of the 
Audit Committee by telephone or email, or came in via another 
external route. In each case the issues were investigated, a 
judgement was made and action taken by senior management, 
supported by Business Assurance and with an appropriate level 
of discretion. The outcome of all matters was reported to the 
Board during the year.
The Company’s Business Conduct policy, which documents the 
whistle-blowing procedures, has been refreshed during the year. 
Risk management process
The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk 
management process in the Group at least annually, as set out 
in its Terms of Reference. The process is detailed on page 24, 
and has been reviewed by the Committee to confirm its 
appropriateness in light of the risks identified. The key areas 
that the Committee has specifically considered are as follows:
Audit Committee report continued
Area of focus Action taken
Review of principal risks and uncertainties The Committee considered the proposed disclosure of principal risks and 
uncertainties within the annual report which had resulted from the Risk 
Committee’s review of the risks facing the Company. The Committee 
recommended a focus on those risks to which Greggs is more exposed  
than its peers, to provide greater clarity.
SAP implementation The Committee has received regular updates on the implementation  
plans for SAP, including timeframes, resource requirements and  
governance arrangements.
Insurance review A major tendering exercise of the Company’s insurance provision was 
undertaken in 2014, and the Audit Committee evaluated the outcome of  
this to ensure that it was satisfied with the arrangements in place.
Resource levels within the Finance function The Committee considered the resourcing of the Finance team, particularly 
with regard to the implementation of the relevant modules within the SAP 
programme. It concluded that recent appointments provided an appropriate 
balance of skills within the team.
Cyber risk assessment The Audit Committee Chair completed the Government’s Cyber Governance 
Health Check 2015 by means of a questionnaire to assess the Board’s view  
of Greggs management of cyber risk. This identified five low risk areas where 
additional focus is required and actions are in progress to address each of 
these. No significant areas of concern were noted.
Internal audit
The work of the Internal Audit function is set out in more detail within the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 
25 of this annual report. The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager, the Information 
Security & Compliance Manager and 16 auditors, the majority of whom work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the 
Company’s retail operations. The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that 
plan. The effectiveness of the Internal Audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
Committee effectiveness
Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made. 
Allison Kirkby
Chair of the Audit Committee
1 March 2016 Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
49 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report 
We believe our remuneration policy  
continues to deliver a robust link between  
reward and performance and is aligned  
with our strategic goal of delivering  
long-term sustainable shareholder value.
Annual statement 
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee and on behalf of your 
Board, I am pleased to present our Directors’ remuneration 
report for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016. 
The annual report on remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory shareholder resolution at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting on 10 May 2016. Our Directors’ remuneration 
policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 1 May 
2014 and became effective for three years from that date. We 
have set out our policy again to allow cross-reference against 
its operation during the year. 
Business strategy and link to remuneration policy
Executive pay rightly continues to be high on the agenda of 
shareholders and other stakeholders. It is understandable that 
shareholders need comfort that the team running the business 
is being paid in a way that reflects that business’s performance, 
and the value they are receiving from their investment. I have 
endeavoured to be as transparent as possible in this year’s 
remuneration report, aiming for a report that is easy to read 
with a continued emphasis on improved disclosure wherever 
possible to support shareholders’ ability to hold companies  
to account.
 
With this in mind, our annual bonus provides a strong link to 
the operational delivery of the business strategy. The 
Performance Share Plan focuses the Executive Directors on the 
longer-term outputs of that strategy, by rewarding sustained 
improvements in earnings per share and long-term return on 
capital employed.
 
As outlined in the Chairman’s statement and Chief Executive’s 
report, 2015 was another strong year operationally for Greggs 
with continued good progress against the longer-term strategic 
plan. Although 2016 will be another busy year, we have started 
the year well and I believe this remuneration policy will support 
the business in delivering continued progress in a competitive 
and fast-moving market.
Performance in 2015 and incentive payments
The Company performed strongly against its financial targets 
as described in the financial review on pages 20 to 21. Against 
the targets set at the beginning of the year for the annual 
bonus, profit and sales performance resulted in 100 per cent of 
the maximum potential being payable under these elements. 
There was an equally strong performance with regards to the 
strategic objectives that were set for cost savings and 
operational efficiencies in line with our step change 
programme. The cost savings targeted against operational 
efficiencies and the process and systems change project, were 
achieved in full and accordingly there is also a 100 per cent 
bonus payment against this strategic element. Refit investment 
returns exceeded our hurdle rate but did not meet the 
maximum target, and so in this instance there was a 37 per cent 
pay out against this strategic objective. Overall, annual 
bonuses representing 117.1 per cent and 84.3 per cent of salary 
will be payable to the Chief Executive and other Executive 
Directors respectively. The Committee is satisfied that this level 
of bonus reflects the exceptional financial performance during 
the year and strong delivery of the strategic objectives. Any 
element of the bonus earned above 50 per cent of the 
maximum will be paid in shares for the Chief Executive and 
Executive Directors subject to a two-year holding period.  50 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Under the Performance Share Plan, awards made in March 2013 
are due to vest in March 2016. These awards are based on EPS 
growth over the three years to the end of 2015 and relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) against a comparator group.  
The EPS performance condition measured to the 2015 financial 
year end has been achieved in full. At the time of writing it is 
likely that the TSR condition will also be achieved in full, 
although the final calculation is made based on the average 
TSR over the one month prior to vesting in March 2016. For the 
purpose of calculating remuneration payable we have assumed 
a full vesting of the award, which is reflective of the current 
level of performance. 
Over this three-year period our EPS has grown by 47 per cent 
and our TSR (based on the three-month average prior to our 
year end) has been 269 per cent. The Committee is very 
comfortable that this performance justifies a full vesting level 
for this award.
Decisions taken by the Committee in 2015
During 2015 the business conducted by the Committee related 
primarily to the more usual standing agenda items, including 
the determination of base salary levels and performance 
conditions for the annual bonus and the 2015 Performance 
Share Plan awards.
Approach for 2016
The Committee has reviewed the operation of our 
remuneration policy for 2015 and has concluded that the  
policy should be implemented on an unchanged basis. 
The Chairman’s fee has been reviewed and will be increased in 
line with that of the base increase for the workforce generally. 
The salary increase for both the Chairman and Executive 
Directors was 2.75 per cent. Increases to salaries and fees took 
effect from 1 January 2016.
Targets for the 2016 annual bonus have been set in line with  
the financial plan for the business for the year and the rolling 
five-year strategic plan. Due to the commercial sensitivity of 
these they are not disclosed within this report, but will be 
disclosed retrospectively in next year’s report.
Under the Performance Share Plan the Committee has 
considered the performance conditions and has determined 
that the EPS and ROCE performance conditions should 
continue to apply with an equal weighting given to each. 
Following a review of our business performance against the 
strategic plan, the EPS and ROCE target ranges have been 
increased for the 2016 awards, so as to ensure that they remain 
appropriately stretching.
It is the intention of the Committee to undertake a full 
benchmark review of salary, bonus and long-term incentives  
for the Directors in 2016 to ensure that their remuneration is  
in line with the current market levels, the structure continues  
to support the business strategy and there remains a strong 
alignment of interest with shareholders. Any resulting changes 
from this exercise will be subject to consultation with 
institutional shareholders and will be presented as a  
proposal for the 2017 policy vote. 
The Committee remains mindful of ongoing developments  
in executive remuneration best practice and the views of our 
shareholders and actively welcomes feedback on our 
remuneration policy and its implementation. 
We believe that our policy continues to deliver a robust link 
between reward and performance and is aligned with our 
strategic goal of delivering long-term sustainable shareholder 
value. We look forward to receiving your continued support  
at this year’s AGM.
Sandra Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
1 March 2016 51 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Regulatory framework
The policy report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). It also meets the 
requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views  
of our major shareholders. The policy was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM, and took formal effect from 
that date.
The annual statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the annual report on remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
The Regulations also require our auditor to report to shareholders on the audited information within this remuneration report  
and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act and the Regulations. 
The auditor’s opinion is set out on pages 67 to 69 and we have indicated appropriately the audited sections of this  
remuneration report.
Remuneration policy report (as approved by shareholders on 1 May 2014)
Our Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 1 May 2014 and became effective for three 
years from that date. We have set out our policy again in this year’s report to enable cross-reference against its implementation 
during the year.
The Company’s remuneration policy is to continue to provide competitive remuneration packages that will incentivise Executive 
Directors to achieve sustainable long-term growth and value that will best serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders,  
its employees and customers. 
Key aspects of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors
The policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below:
Element 
Purpose  
and strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Base salary To attract and retain 
high calibre 
individuals in order  
to promote the 
long-term success  
of the business.
Reviewed and set annually in January.
Benchmarked periodically by the Committee against the remuneration levels 
for executives in similar roles in companies of a comparable size. Individual 
performance and contribution is recognised in setting salary levels.
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
Key reference points for  
salary increases are market 
and economic conditions and, 
in line with our values, the 
approach to employee pay 
throughout the organisation.
Benefits To support a 
competitive 
remuneration  
package in the 
marketplace.
Benefits include provision of a Company car (or cash in lieu), private medical 
health care, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
No maximum limit is 
prescribed particularly as the 
cost of providing insured 
benefits fluctuates over time. 
However, the Committee 
monitors on an annual basis 
the overall cost of the  
benefit provision.
Pension To support a 
competitive 
remuneration  
package in the 
marketplace.
Executive Directors can elect to either:
 – participate in the Company defined contribution pension scheme (up to  
a cap). Above the cap Executive Directors receive a salary supplement; or 
 – take cash in lieu of this contribution paid as a supplement to their salary  
on a monthly basis.
The Executive Directors are able to make this choice on an annual basis.  
The remuneration adjustment is disclosed later in this report.
Up to 22.5% of base salary 
contribution for the Chief 
Executive and up to 15% of 
base salary for other  
Executive Directors. 52 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual bonus 
(including  
profit share)
To support a 
competitive 
remuneration package 
in the marketplace.
The bonus will be based on a mix of business KPIs, with operating profit being 
the largest component of the mix of metrics and this will not be less than 50% 
of the overall mix.
Targets for each metric are set in advance and in line with business planning 
objectives set by the Committee. 
Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in the Company’s profit 
sharing scheme available to all employees. The value of this is then deducted 
from their annual bonus and is subject to the individual cap. 
The Committee will use appropriate underpins for any non-profit-based 
element of the annual bonus such that payment under these elements may be 
scaled back (potentially to zero), at the discretion of the Committee, in the 
event that the operating profit performance for the year is judged to be running 
significantly below that required for the achievement of the long-term strategy.
Any bonus paid in excess of 50% of the maximum will be payable in shares, 
deferred for two years with vesting subject to continued service.
The dividends payable on deferred bonus shares are paid to the individual as 
they fall due.
Recovery and withholding provisions allow the Company to recoup annual 
bonus payments within three years in the event of misstatement of 
performance, error or misconduct, where this has led to an overpayment in  
the view of the Committee. There is a flexible mechanism which allows the 
Company to withhold outstanding deferred or future remuneration, or recover 
the overpayment direct from the individual concerned.
Capped at 125% of base 
salary for the Chief Executive 
and 90% of base salary for 
other Executive Directors.
On target performance 
delivers a bonus of 60% of  
the maximum.
No more than 25% of the 
bonus opportunity is payable 
under each element for 
threshold performance.
Performance 
Share Plan  
(PSP)
To incentivise 
long-term value 
creation, retention of 
our talent and ensure 
alignment of Executive 
Directors’ and 
shareholders’ 
interests.
Awards are granted under the PSP annually at the discretion of the Committee.
Performance conditions will be based on an equal split of two different financial 
measures, EPS and ROCE (for discrete parts of an award). Targets will be set for 
each metric which reflect the strategic plan and business outlook over the 
respective performance period. The mix may alter for future awards and/or 
different metrics, such as TSR, may be used. Performance will be measured over 
a three-year period with an additional mandatory holding period of two years 
for the vested shares (net of tax).
Recovery and withholding provisions allow the Company to recoup vested 
Performance Share awards within three years in the event of misstatement of 
performance, error or misconduct, where this has led to an overpayment in  
the view of the Committee. There is a flexible mechanism which allows the 
Company to withhold outstanding deferred or future remuneration, or recover 
the overpayment direct from the individual concerned.
90% of base salary for CEO 
and 70% of base salary for 
other Executive Directors. 
120% of base salary in 
exceptional circumstances.
Threshold vesting at 25%  
of the maximum.
Saving Related 
Share Option 
Scheme (SAYE)
To encourage 
employees at all levels 
within the Company to 
understand better and 
so participate in the 
growth in value of the 
Company.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant  
to the Company’s SAYE Scheme, which is available for all employees. 
The rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the  
same terms.
Executives may enter into  
a contract to save up to the 
maximum allowed under 
HMRC guidelines.
Share retention 
guidelines
To further align the 
interests of Executive 
Directors to those of 
shareholders.
The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of 150% of base 
salary within five years of appointment. 
Other Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding of 100%  
of their respective base salaries within a five-year period.
This is achieved through vested awards granted via the PSP and deferred  
bonus shares. 
n/a
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the operation of all the share-based incentives deployed in the Company. The 2014 
Company Share Option Plan and the 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme were approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting 
The annual bonus is based on performance against a range of financial and strategic performance measures. This range of metrics 
measures achievement of the Company’s key operational objectives. The Committee reviews the Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) each year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead. Where appropriate a 
sliding scale of targets is set for each KPI to encourage continuous improvement, or sustained high levels of performance. 
The PSP is based on an equal split of EPS and ROCE performance. EPS, which is a direct measure of profit performance, is our 
primary long-term KPI. ROCE is considered to be particularly relevant at the current time as this will focus Executives on re-
deploying capital efficiently through the planned investment programme, whilst continuing to create returns well above the 
WACC. The relative mix of the performance measures may be altered for future awards. 53 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for each measure. The Committee will review the choice of performance 
measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each PSP award. The Committee has discretion to set 
different targets for future awards. The targets for awards granted under this remuneration policy are set out for shareholder 
approval in the annual report on remuneration.
Policy discretion
The Committee will operate incentive plans in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where 
relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of certain plan rules. These include (but are not limited to) the following: 
 – who participates; 
 – the timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
 – the size of an award (up to plan/policy limits) and/or a payment;
 – the result indicated by the relative TSR performance condition may be scaled back (potentially to zero) in the event that the 
Committee considers that financial performance has been unsatisfactory and/or the outcome has been distorted due to the 
TSR for the Company or any comparator company being considered abnormal;
 – discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
 – determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes and the treatment  
of leavers;
 – adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
 – the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former Directors (such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes) that 
have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports. Details of any of these payments to former Directors will 
be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Non-Executive Directors 
In order to ensure that no Director is involved in deciding his/her own remuneration, the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors 
are set, after consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of the Executive Directors. The fees 
payable to the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
These fees are reviewed and set annually in December and implemented from 1 January. 
Element Purpose and strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Non-Executive 
Chairman and 
Directors’ fees
To attract and retain high quality 
and experienced Non-Executive 
Chairman and Directors. 
The Chairman is paid an all-encompassing fee.
Non-Executives Directors are paid a basic fee and the Chairs  
of the Main Board Committees and the Senior Independent 
Director (SID) are paid an additional fee to reflect their additional 
responsibilities. Where the SID role is combined with that of 
chairing a Committee then only one fee is paid.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme 
membership, bonus or incentive arrangements. 
There is no prescribed 
maximum.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed subject to the Company’s articles of association, retiring and seeking election at the first 
AGM after appointment. Thereafter, every Director will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders. The Nominations 
Committee advises the Board as to whether Directors should be nominated for re-election. Non-Executive Directors are not 
entitled to compensation for early termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due to offer 
themselves for election or re-election, or if not re-appointed at such time.
The following table shows the effective date of appointment for each Non-Executive Director:
Non-Executive Director Original date of appointment
Ian Durant 5 October 2011
Allison Kirkby 30 January 2013
Helena Ganczakowski 2 January 2014
Peter McPhillips 10 March 2014
Sandra Turner 1 May 2014
Non-Executive Directors are appointed on an understanding that the appointment will last for six years, but without any 
commitment by either party. 54 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Difference in remuneration policy across the Group 
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed having regard to the policy for employees across the Group  
as a whole.
There are differences in salary levels and in the levels of potential reward depending upon seniority and responsibility, although a 
key reference point for executive salary increases is the average increase across the general workforce. A higher proportion of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration package is delivered through performance-related pay and in share-based form, which provide 
a good link to long-term Company performance.
All employees, with one year’s service or more, may participate in the SAYE schemes and in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP) that  
are run annually. Under the SAYE scheme, at the end of a three-year saving period, employees can buy Greggs shares at a 
discounted rate. 
With the SIP, all employees may purchase Company shares from pre-tax salary subject to HMRC limits. 
After six months’ service all employees are eligible to participate in the profit sharing scheme in which all employees share ten  
per cent of our profits. 
The Committee does not currently consult with employees on Directors’ pay policy, although the Committee will keep this  
under review. 
Policy on recruitment remuneration
The Committee will aim to set a new Executive Director’s remuneration package in line with the Company’s approved policy at the 
time of appointment. The Committee will take into account, in arriving at a total package and in considering the quantum for each 
element of the package, the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of that experience as well as 
the importance of securing the best available candidate. 
Annual bonus and PSP awards will not exceed the policy maxima (not including any arrangements to replace forfeited deferred 
pay). Participation in the annual bonus plan and PSP will normally be pro-rated for the year of joining. The Committee may make 
one-off additional cash and/or share-based awards as it deems appropriate, and if the circumstances so demand to take account 
of deferred pay forfeited by an Executive on leaving a previous employer. Awards to replace deferred pay forfeited would, where 
possible, reflect the nature of awards forfeited in terms of delivery mechanism (cash or shares), time horizons, attributed expected 
value and performance conditions. Other payments may be made in relation to relocation expenses and other incidental 
expenses as appropriate.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms and any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the 
approved remuneration policy at that time.  55 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Service contracts and policy on cessation
Executive Directors’ service contracts contain the following remuneration-related aspects:
Provision Detailed terms 
Remuneration 
 – salary, pension and benefits;
 – Company car or cash allowance;
 – private medical health care for the Director;
 – permanent health insurance;
 – participation in annual bonus and profit share (subject to scheme rules);
 – participation in long-term incentive schemes or similar arrangements (subject to scheme rules); and
 – life assurance.
Notice period
 – Chief Executive’s contract is terminable on 12 months’ notice served by either the Company or the Director;
 – other Executive Directors’ service contracts are terminable on 12 months’ notice served by the Company or by six months’ 
notice served by the Director; and 
 – any future Executive Directors’ service contracts will be terminable on 12 months’ notice served by either party.
Termination 
payment
 – payment in lieu of notice equal to any unexpired notice of termination given by either party; and 
 – payment in lieu shall not include:
 – any bonus payment;
 – any payment in respect of benefits which the Director would have been entitled to receive; and
 – any payment in respect of any holiday entitlement that would have accrued during the period for which the payment in lieu 
is made.
Details of the circumstances in which the Committee has the ability to exercise discretion with regards to termination payments 
are set out below.
The Company’s policy is that current Executive Directors’ service contracts do not have a specific duration but may be terminated 
with 12 months’ notice from the Company and six months notice from the Executive Director. Any future Executive Directors’ 
service contracts will be terminable on 12 months’ notice served by either party. Under their service contracts the Executive 
Directors are entitled to salary, pension contributions and benefits for their notice period save where a payment in lieu is to be 
made. The Company would seek to ensure that any payment is mitigated by use of phased payments and offset against earnings 
elsewhere in the event that an Executive Director finds alternative employment during his notice period. There are no contractual 
provisions in force other than those set out above that impact any termination payment. 
Areas where the Committee can exercise discretion with regards to termination payments:
 – annual bonus may be payable pro-rated for that part of the year worked;
 – any unvested awards held under the deferred annual bonus will normally lapse at cessation unless the individual is leaving for 
certain reasons (defined under the plan as death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment 
being with either a company which ceases to be a Group member or relating to a business or part of a business which is 
transferred to a person who is not a Group member, a change of control or any other reason the Committee so decides).  
In these circumstances unvested awards will normally vest at the cessation (unless the Committee decides they should vest  
at the normal vesting date);
 – any unvested awards held under the PSP will lapse at cessation, unless the individual is leaving in the circumstances set out 
above for the deferred annual bonus. In these circumstances, unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date 
(unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation) subject to performance conditions being met and scaling back  
in respect of actual service as a proportion of the total vesting period (unless the Committee decides that scaling back is 
inappropriate); and
 – the Committee may agree to payment of disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement services if appropriate and 
depending on the circumstances of cessation.
The table below sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts:
Director Date of contract
Roger Whiteside 4 February 2013
Raymond Reynolds 18 December 2006
Richard Hutton 7 April 2006
The service contracts are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office, and are 
available for inspection at the AGM. 56 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Expected value of the proposed annual remuneration package for Executive Directors 
The following charts indicate the level of remuneration payable to Executive Directors in 2016 based on policy at ‘minimum’ 
remuneration, remuneration in line with ‘on target’ Company performance, and the maximum remuneration available. 
Chief Executive – Roger Whiteside 
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
1,400,000
1,600,000
1,800,000
Minimum On target Stretch
PSP
100% 48%
35%
17%
26%
37%
37%
Bonus
Fixed Remuneration
£650,890
£1,354,422
£1,771,331
Finance Director – Richard Hutton 
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
900,000
Minimum On target Stretch
PSP
100%
54%
30%
16%
26%
32%
42%
Bonus
Fixed Remuneration
£350,104
£647,211
£835,360
Retail Director – Raymond Reynolds 
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
Minimum On target Stretch
PSP
100% 54%
30%
16%
26%
32%
42%
Bonus
Fixed Remuneration
£316,830
£581,393
£749,823
Assumptions used in the charts:
Minimum remuneration assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the PSP.
On target remuneration assumes the target level is reached for each of the elements under the annual bonus plan and 50 per cent vesting is achieved under the PSP.
Maximum remuneration assumes full vesting under the annual bonus plan and PSP.
Base salary levels as at 1 January 2016.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016.
Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 57 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Shareholder engagement
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and otherwise from time to time.  
This feedback is then considered as part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy.
The Committee engages pro-actively with shareholders, and takes their views seriously. When any material changes are made  
to the remuneration policy, the Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer to attend a 
meeting with those shareholders to discuss any concerns they may have.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last year’s remuneration report during the year are provided in the 
annual report on remuneration.
External appointments 
Executive Directors may take up one Non-Executive Directorship outside of the Company subject to the Board’s approval and 
provided that such an appointment is not likely to lead to a conflict of interest. It is recognised that this can support a Director’s 
development and enhance experience as well as benefit the Company. Executive Directors will be entitled to retain the fees of 
such an appointment. 
Annual report on remuneration
Implementation of our policy in 2016
The section below summarises the implementation of our Remuneration Policy for 2016.
Base salaries
The annual base salaries for the Executive Directors are: 
Director
Salary as at 
1 January 
2015
Salary as at 
1 January 
2016 % Increase
Roger Whiteside £507,187 £521,135 2.75%
Richard Hutton £289,734 £297,702 2.75%
Raymond Reynolds £258,531 £265,641 2.75%
Increases are in line with the base increase of the workforce. In addition in 2016 we awarded 13,500 of our hourly paid retail employees 
a five per cent pay award (2.25 per cent above the base increase) and 2,700 shop managers and assistant shop managers will receive a 
four per cent pay award (1.25 per cent above the base increase).
Pension contribution 
The pension contribution rates (all of which are cash in lieu) are:
Roger Whiteside 22.5%
Raymond Reynolds 14%
Richard Hutton 13%
Annual bonus
For 2016 the performance conditions will provide a strong link between bonus payments and our business strategy. 
Bonus metrics
Profit Sales Strategic Objectives
50% of total 20% of total 30% of total
This will be based on meeting and  
exceeding budget for the year
Based on Company-managed shop like-for-like 
sales excluding any additional shops opened 
during the bonus year
Detailed below
The strategic objectives for each bonus cycle will be based on measures which will provide a strong link to future value creation. 
For the 2016 bonus the three strategic objectives, each relating to ten per cent of the bonus opportunity, will be: 
(i)  customer transaction percentage growth;
(ii)  cost savings; and
(iii)   specific project delivery within our change programme regarding processes and systems with four elements measured 
independently, each element being worth 2.5 per cent.
Sliding scales will be set where possible. 58 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
There will be an underpin to the sales and strategic objectives elements of the bonus whereby any payment under these elements 
may be scaled back (potentially to zero) at the discretion of the Committee, in the event that the profit performance for the year is 
judged to be running significantly below that required for the achievement of the long-term strategy.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items 
which the Committee considers to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against 
them will be made in next year’s annual report on remuneration. 
2016 PSP Award
Performance conditions will be based on an equal split of two different financial measures, EPS and ROCE (for discrete parts of an 
award)*. Targets have been set for each metric which reflect the strategic plan and business outlook over the performance period. 
The EPS and ROCE ranges have been increased to ensure that they remain appropriately stretching in light of our business 
strategy and higher profitability outlook, without encouraging undue risk taking.
For the 2016 awards the target ranges will be as follows:
 – The EPS performance condition will require average annual growth of RPI +two per cent to +eight per cent over three years 
from the 2015 financial year end.
 – The ROCE condition will require average annual ROCE over the three year performance period (2016, 2017 and 2018) to be in 
the range 22 per cent to 27 per cent.
In both cases 25 per cent of an award will vest on achieving threshold performance and thereafter straight-line sliding scales will 
apply until stretch performance is achieved.
In order to improve alignment of interest between Executives and shareholders further, a holding period will be attached to 
vested PSP awards granted in the policy period, requiring the vested shares to be held (net of tax) for a further two years.
*EPS and ROCE are measured excluding exceptional items.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Chairman’s fee for 2016 is £159,263. 
The Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual base fee which is currently £42,457 and additional responsibility fees of £6,299 
for the role of Senior Independent Director (SID) or for chairing a Board Committee. Where the SID role is combined with the role 
of chairing a Committee then only one fee of £6,299 will be paid.
Details of the fees being paid to Non-Executive Directors in 2016 are set out below: 
Ian Durant £159,263 Chairman
Allison Kirkby £48,756 Chair of the Audit Committee
Helena Ganczakowski £42,457 Non-Executive Director
Peter McPhillips £42,457 Non-Executive Director
Sandra Turner £48,756 SID & Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report continued 59 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Remuneration payable for 2015 for each Executive Director (Audited)
The following table presents the remuneration payable for 2015 (showing the equivalent figures for 2014) for the  
Executive Directors:
Salary 
£
Pension 
contribution 
(including salary 
in lieu)
£
Taxable  
benefits
£
 
Annual  
incentives  
(including  
profit share) 
£
Long-term 
incentives
*
£
Total 
remuneration
£
Roger Whiteside
2015 507,188 114,118 12,397 594,043 1,357,891  2,585,637 
2014 495,300 111,442 12,381 619,125 – 1,238,248 
Richard Hutton
2015 289,736 37,233 13,659 244,334  493,628  1,078,590 
2014 282,944 52,508 11,491 254,650 141,043  742,636 
Raymond Reynolds
2015 258,530 31,804 13,949 218,019  440,465  962,767 
2014 252,472 31,060 12,433 227,225 125,858  649,048 
*  Pursuant to evolving best practice following the introduction in 2013 of the Remuneration Reporting Regulations, the basis on which the long-term incentives vesting values have been 
determined has been changed for 2015. The 2015 long-term incentive vesting values are based on the forecast value of the awards due to vest on 27 March 2016 (50 per cent of the 
award is based on EPS performance measured over the three financial years to 2 January 2016 and 50 per cent of the award is based on relative TSR measured over the three years to 
27 March 2016). The EPS performance measured to 2 January 2016 exceeded the maximum performance conditions and 100 per cent of this part of the award is due to vest and forms 
part of the 2015 long-term incentive value. Relative TSR performance (based on an assessment of performance measured to 2 January 2016) is forecast to exceed the maximum 
performance requirement and the 2015 long-term incentive value therefore assumes 100 per cent of this part of the award is due to vest. The share price for the purposes of valuing 
the award is the three-month average share price to 2 January 2016 (£11.99). This value will be trued up in the 2016 report to reflect the actual level of vesting and share price at the 
vesting date. The 2014 long-term incentive value has been restated and reflects the actual value of the awards that vested in April 2015.
Fees payable for each Non-Executive Director (Audited)
Fees 
£ 
Ian Durant
2015 155,000 
2014 131,405 
Allison Kirkby
2015 47,361 
2014 46,251 
Helena Ganczakowski
1
2015 41,231 
2014 39,631 
Peter McPhillips
2
2015 41,231 
2014 32,667 
Sandra Turner
3
2015 47,361 
2014 30,834 
1. Appointed 2 January 2014.
2. Appointed 10 March 2014.
3. Appointed 1 May 2014 and appointed SID and Chair of Remuneration Committee.
No detailed disclosure has been provided for Non-Executive Directors other than that relating to their fee, as this is the only form 
of remuneration they receive. 60 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual bonus payments to Executive Directors
The table below outlines the bonus payments to Executive Directors in respect of 2015. 
Measure Strategic objective Weighting Entry Target Stretch Actual
% of 
maximum
All Executive Directors
Profit (£) Profit before tax 
(excluding 
exceptional items)
To deliver profit 
target
50% £58.0m £62.5m £67.0m £73.0m 50% 
Sales (%) Company-managed 
shop like-for-like 
sales
To deliver target 
increase
20% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% 4.7% 20% 
Strategic (%) Refit return  
on investment
To deliver target 
percentage
10% 22.5% 25.0% – 22.9% 3.7%
Strategic (£) Operational 
efficiencies &  
saving from 
processes and 
systems change
To deliver target 
savings
20% £10.7m £11.7m – £12.1m 20%
Total weighting based on balance scorecard 100%
Bonus achieved for 2015 As % of maximum
Roger Whiteside 93.7%
Richard Hutton 93.7%
Raymond Reynolds 93.7%
Any element of the bonus earned above 50 per cent of the maximum will be paid in shares for the Chief Executive and Executive 
Directors subject to a two-year holding period. The number of shares will be calculated by dividing 43.7 per cent of the net bonus  
by the closing market share value on the date of payment. Full details will be provided in the 2016 Directors’ remuneration report.
Vested PSP awards
The PSP award granted in 2012 measured EPS performance by reference to the three financial years to 3 January 2015 and TSR 
performance by reference to the three years from date of grant. The performance targets that were set, together with the 
performance delivered, are set out in the table below. This table provides an update on the vesting level estimated for this  
award in last year’s annual report on remuneration.
Metric Condition Threshold Target Stretch Target Actual % Vesting 
Earnings per share 
(50%)
Normalised EPS growth  
of RPI +3% p.a. to RPI  
+8% p.a. over three 
financial years.
RPI +3%
(12.5% vesting)
RPI +8%
(100% vesting)
RPI +1.3% 0%
Total shareholder 
return (50%)
TSR against a peer group  
of 24 companies TSR 
measured over three years 
with a one-month average 
at the start and end of the 
performance period.
50th percentile 
(12.5% vesting)
75th percentile
(100% vesting) 
67th percentile 37.4%
    Total vesting 37.4%*
* Estimated last year at 25 per cent.
This PSP award vested on 2 April 2015.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 61 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
The PSP award granted in 2013 measures EPS performance by reference to the three financial years to 2 January 2016 and TSR 
performance by reference to the three years from date of grant. The performance targets that were set, together with the 
performance delivered, are set out in the table below. 
Metric Condition Threshold Target Stretch Target Actual % Vesting 
Earnings per share 
(50%)
Normalised EPS growth of 
RPI +3% p.a. to RPI  
+8% p.a. over three 
financial years.
RPI +3%
(12.5% vesting)
RPI +8%
(100% vesting)
RPI +14% 50% 
Total shareholder 
return (50%)
TSR against a peer group  
of 16 companies TSR 
measured over three years 
with a one-month average 
at the start and end of the 
performance period.
50th percentile 
(12.5% vesting)
75th percentile
(100% vesting) 
94th percentile 50%*
    Total vesting 100%
 
*  The percentage vesting under the TSR condition is based on an estimate and the value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three-month period from 
1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 of £11.99. This performance measure will be formally measured on the third anniversary of grant and the shares may then vest, subject to 
continued employment. The results of this final measurement will be disclosed in the 2016 Directors’ remuneration report.
Legacy defined benefit pension scheme (Audited)
The following table sets out the change in each Director’s accrued pension in the Company’s defined benefit scheme during the 
year and his accrued benefits in the scheme at the year end: 
Executive Director Date of birth
Date service 
commenced
Accrued annual 
pension 
entitlement as at 
3 January 2015 
£
Accrued annual 
pension 
entitlement as at 
2 January 2016 
£
Increase in 
accrued pension 
entitlement for 
the year 
£
Increase in 
accrued pension 
entitlement for 
the year net of 
inflation of 1.2% 
£
Transfer value of 
increase in 
accrued pension 
entitlement for 
the year
£
Richard Hutton 3/6/68 1/1/98 18,522 18,522 – – – 
Raymond Reynolds 4/11/59 1/12/86 69,535 69,535 – – –
Note 1:  The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, but excluding any statutory increases which would be 
due after the year end.
Note 2:  The inflation rate of 1.2 per cent shown in the table above is that published by the Secretary of State for Social Security in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Pensions Schemes  
Act 1993.
Cash equivalent 
transfer value as 
at 3 January 2015
£ 
Cash equivalent 
transfer value as 
at 2 January 2016
£ 
Increase in the 
cash equivalent 
transfer value 
since 3 January 
2015
£ 
Richard Hutton 307,293 278,220 – 
Raymond Reynolds 1,442,044 1,340,108 –
Note:  Cash equivalent transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 and the increase is stated net of contributions made by the Director.  
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director. Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
The main features of the defined benefit scheme are:
 – pension at normal retirement age of 1/60th of member’s final pensionable salary for each complete year and a proportionate 
amount for each additional complete month of service from the date of joining the scheme until 5 April 2008 when the scheme 
was closed to future accrual; 
 – choice of giving up part of the pension in exchange for a tax-free cash sum subject to a limit of 25 per cent of the total value of 
the member’s benefits under the scheme;
 – pension payable in the event of ill health;
 – spouse’s pension on death; and
 – normal retirement at age 65. 62 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Performance Share Plan awards made during 2015
Executive Type of award Basis of award granted
Share price 
at date of 
grant 
(26 March 
2015)
Number of 
shares over 
which award 
was granted
Face value  
of award 
% of face 
value that 
would vest at 
threshold 
performance
Vesting determined  
by performance over
Roger Whiteside £nil cost option 90% of salary £10.350 44,103 £456,466 25% Three financial  
years to  
29 December  
2018 
Richard Hutton £nil cost option 70% of salary £10.350 19,595 £202,808 25%
Raymond Reynolds £nil cost option 70% of salary £10.350 17,485 £180,970 25%
Executive Director share awards and share options (Audited)
The following table sets out details of the PSP, executive and savings related share options (all of which were granted at a £nil cost 
to the Executive Director concerned) held by, or granted to, each Executive Director during the year:
At 3 January 
2015
number
Granted
number
Exercised 
number
Lapsed 
number
At 2 January 
2016 
number
Exercise 
price
Date of 
grant
Market price 
of each 
share at date 
of grant
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date Scheme
Roger 
Whiteside 113,252 – – – 113,252 £nil Mar 13 £4.735 Mar 16 Mar 23 PSP
90,191 – – – 90,191 £nil Mar 14 £4.9425 Mar 17 Mar 24 PSP
– 44,103 – – 44,103 £nil Mar 15 £10.350 Mar 20 Mar 25 PSP
449 – – – 449 £4.65 Apr 14 Jun 17 Nov 17 SAYE
– 215 – – 215 £8.18 Apr 15 Jun 18 Nov 18 SAYE
203,892 44,318 – – 248,210
Richard 
Hutton 26,750 – 26,750
2
– – £4.07 Aug 06 Aug 09 Aug 16 Exec
62,640 – 62,640
3
– – £3.56 Apr 09 Apr 12 Apr 19 Exec
36,334 – 13,588
4
22,746 – £nil Apr 12 £5.260 Apr 15 Apr 22 PSP
41,170 – – – 41,170 £nil Mar 13 £4.735 Mar 16 Mar 23 PSP
40,072 – – – 40,072 £nil Mar 14 £4.9425 Mar 17 Mar 24 PSP
– 19,595 – – 19,595 £nil Mar 15 £10.350 Mar 20 Mar 25 PSP
423 – 423
5
– – £4.68 Apr 12 Jun 15 Nov 15 SAYE
400 – – – 400 £4.14 Apr 13 Jun 16 Nov 16 SAYE
449 – – – 449 £4.65 Apr 14 Jun 17 Nov 17 SAYE
– 215 – – 215 £8.18 Apr 15 Jun 18 Nov 18 SAYE
208,238 19,810 103,401 22,746 101,901
Raymond 
Reynolds 26,750 – 26,750
2
– – £4.07 Aug 06 Aug 09 Aug 16 Exec
62,640 – – – 62,640
1
£3.56 Apr 09 Apr 12 Apr 19 Exec
32,421 – – 20,296 12,125 £nil Apr 12 £5.260 Apr 15 Apr 22 PSP
36,736 – – – 36,736 £nil Mar 13 £4.735 Mar 16 Mar 23 PSP
35,757 – – – 35,757 £nil Mar 14 £4.9425 Mar 17 Mar 24 PSP
– 17,485 – – 17,485 £nil Mar 15 £10.350 Mar 20 Mar 25 PSP
423 – 423
6
– – £4.68 Apr 12 Jun 15 Nov 15 SAYE
400 – – – 400 £4.14 Apr 13 Jun 16 Nov 16 SAYE
449 – – – 449 £4.65 Apr 14 Jun 17 Nov 17 SAYE
195,576 17,485 27,173 20,296 165,592 
1. Performance conditions have been achieved and the shares remain exercisable.
2. The market value on the date of exercise was £9.704 and the resultant gain on exercise was £150,709.
3. The market value on the date of exercise was £11.457 and the resultant gain on exercise was £494,668.
4. The market value on the date of exercise was £10.300 and the resultant gain on exercise was £139,956.
5. The market value on the date of exercise was £11.980 and the resultant gain on exercise was £3,088.
6. The market value on the date of exercise was £11.960 and the resultant gain on exercise was £3,079.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 63 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Options granted under the all-employee SAYE scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
The mid-market price of ordinary shares in the Company as at 2 January 2016 was £13.14. The highest and lowest mid-market 
prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were £13.55 and £7.225 respectively.
Directors’ shareholding and share interests (Audited)
The Company’s share retention guidelines require the Chief Executive to build up a shareholding of 150 per cent and other 
Executive Directors to build up a shareholding of 100 per cent of their respective base salary in a five-year period. This can be 
achieved by holding vested shares via the PSP and/or deferred annual bonus. 
Details of the shareholdings of each Executive Director as of 2 January 2016 and their interests in shares are detailed below with 
the percentage holding calculated using the share price at that date:
Director
Beneficially 
owned at 
2 January 2016
Beneficially 
owned at 
3 January 2015
Outstanding PSP 
awards
Outstanding 
deferred bonus 
awards
Outstanding 
option awards
% shareholding 
guideline 
achieved at 
2 January 2016
Roger Whiteside* 75,998 72,253 247,546 – – 197%
Richard Hutton 77,923 55,787 100,837 – – 353%
Raymond Reynolds 59,244 53,224 102,103 – 62,640 301%
Ian Durant 11,700 11,700 – – – n/a
Allison Kirkby 1,600 1,600 – – – n/a
Helena Ganczakowski 1,000 1,000 – – – n/a
Peter McPhillips 500 – – – – n/a
Sandra Turner 1,000 – – – – n/a
* As disclosed in a previous Directors’ remuneration report, 60,000 of these shares were granted to Roger Whiteside as a transitional bonus in compensation for his loss of bonus from his 
previous employer. The award of half of the shares was deferred for two years and the other half for three years but are not subject to performance conditions other than continuity of 
employment and not having resigned or been given notice of termination when the respective award is due to vest. The first 30,000 shares vested unconditionally during the year. This 
award will be subject to tax and NI in respect of the award of the shares.
Exit payments or payments to past Directors (Audited)
There were no payments to past Directors in the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016. No payments for compensation or loss of office 
were paid to, or receivable by, any Director. 
External directorships
There are none currently in place.
Performance graph 
The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for the Company’s shares for each of the last seven financial 
years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
and the FTSE 350 (excluding Investment Trusts).
These indices were chosen for this comparison because they include companies of broadly similar size to the Company. 
Jan-09
Dec-10
Dec-09
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
Dec-11
Dec-12
Dec-13
Dec-14
Dec-15
FTSE 350 
(excluding investment trusts)
Greggs FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) 64 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Remuneration outcomes for the Chief Executive over last seven years 
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same seven-year period. The total 
remuneration figure includes the annual bonus, pension and PSP/option awards which vested based on performance in  
those years. 
Director 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£’s) £646,313 £767,397 £707,245 £635,030 £1,011,381 £1,238,248 £2,585,637
Bonus (% of max potential) 30% 56.6% 38.6% 18% 20%* 100% 93.7%
PSP/Options (% max potential) n/a n/a 0% 78.3% n/a n/a 100%
* This figure includes only the performance-related bonus that was achieved in 2013 and not the bonus share award given to CEO.
Percentage change in remuneration of Director undertaking role of Chief Executive
The table below sets out the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive compared to the wider workforce. For 
this purpose the wider workforce is defined as all full-time head office management employees as they too are entitled to receive 
benefits and annual bonus awards. 
% change from 
2014 to 2015
Chief Executive (£)
– salary 2.4%
– benefits 0.1%
– performance pay 215.3%
1
Average per employee (£)
– salary 2.87%
– benefits
2
(4.9%)
– performance pay 436%
3
1. The increase in performance pay is due to PSP vesting in 2015, while there was no vesting in 2014.
2. The average employee benefits figure is based on tax year 2013/14 for 2014 and tax year 2014/15 for 2015. 
3. Bonus was extended to all graded management teams in 2013 (first payout in March 2015).
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in the overall spend on staff costs compared to other key 
financial indicators.
2015
£m
2014
£m
% change from 
2014 to 2015
Staff costs 314.0 311.3 0.9%
Dividends 43.7 19.6 123% 
Retained profit (excluding exceptional items) 57.6 44.3 30% 
Tax (excluding exceptional items) 15.4 14.0 10% 
Composition of the Committee
The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee during 2015:
Member Date of appointment
Sandra Turner (Chair since appointment) 1 May 2014
Allison Kirkby 30 January 2013
Helena Ganczakowski 2 January 2014
Peter McPhillips 10 March 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued 65 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Accounts Directors’ Report
Remuneration advice
The Chief Executive along with Jonathan Jowett (Company Secretary and General Counsel) and Roisin Currie (People Director) 
are normally invited to attend the Committee meetings in order to provide advice and support to the Committee. During the year 
New Bridge Street (NBS) supported the Committee. 
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct and adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation 
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place at NBS and is 
satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.
Fees paid to NBS during the year were £17,000.
Approval by shareholders
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Approve the remuneration report
Total number of 
votes
% of votes  
cast
For 64,738,349 99.56%
Against 285,669 0.44%
Total votes cast (excluding votes withheld) 65,024, 018 100%
Votes withheld 841,634
Total votes cast (including votes withheld) 65,865,652
Votes withheld are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
At the AGM of the Company to be held on 10 May 2016, one resolution approving the annual statement and annual report on 
remuneration will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2016.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Sandra Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
1 March 2016 66 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and accounts and the Group and Parent Company accounts in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company accounts for each financial year. Under that law they 
are required to prepare the Group accounts in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the Parent Company accounts on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company accounts, the Directors are required to: 
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 – state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
 – prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual report and accounts
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 – the strategic report and Directors’ report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Roger Whiteside  Richard Hutton
Chief Executive  Finance Director
1 March 2016 67 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Greggs plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified
We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 set out on pages 70 to 99. In our opinion: 
 – the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 2 January 2016 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 – the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU); 
 – the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
 – the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the accounts the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit 
was as follows:
Provisions (net charge in year £1.2 million, provision in balance sheet £5.6 million)
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee report), pages 76 and 79 (accounting policy) and page 97 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – 
 – The Group leases the majority of its shops and has almost 1,500 shop leases at the end of the year. It is therefore exposed to 
the risk of onerous leases and dilapidation costs. 
 – Where shops are closed prior to the end of the lease term or are not trading sufficiently well to recover the committed lease 
costs there is a risk that an element of the lease will be onerous. Determining the level of onerous lease provisions involves 
estimation of the length of time and cost at which lease arrangements can be exited and forecasting and discounting future 
cash flows, both of which are inherently uncertain. 
 – The level of dilapidation provision involves estimation of the costs anticipated to make good any alterations to properties as 
required by lease agreements. 
Our response –
Our audit procedures in respect of property provisions included:
 – In respect of onerous lease provisions recognised we critically assessed whether the provisions identified by the Directors  
met the criteria for recognition. We considered the completeness of provisions for all leases where the unavoidable costs of 
meeting the lease obligation may exceed the economic benefit expected to be received under the lease through the 
identification of shops closed during the year, poorly performing shops and those identified for provision in the prior year.
 – For all onerous leases provided for, we tested the mathematical accuracy and challenged the reasonableness of the Group’s 
model for calculating the provision, as well as agreeing key inputs such as lease term, break clauses and rental value to the 
relevant lease agreements.
 – For closed shops we critically assessed the Directors’ estimate of total costs to exit the lease by challenging key assumptions 
including the time it would take to exit, the level of incentives to sublease or penalties to be paid to landlords and other costs 
to exit or sublet a shop such as legal fees or dilapidation costs. We also considered the most recent expectation of the relevant 
local in-house property surveyor responsible for each shop, supported by third-party evidence including offers made, 
communications with third-party agents or contracts agreed to surrender or sublease properties. We considered the historical 
experience of the Group at exiting similar properties and the costs involved in doing so. We also considered the location of 
each closed shop and the impact this may have on the time and costs expected to exit these leases as well as the possible 
income from subletting these shops if possible. 
 – We challenged the Directors’ assumptions relating to onerous lease provisions for shops still trading. This included 
consideration of the discounted cash flow forecasts on a shop-by-shop basis and assessing the cash flow forecasts against the 
historical performance of those shops and against the Group’s budgets. 
 – For dilapidation provisions we critically assessed whether provisions identified by the Directors met the criteria for recognition. 
We also considered the completeness of provisions including the consideration of shops where there is indication of likely 
dilapidation exposure taking into account historical experience of the Group. We considered the historical experience of the 
Group in respect of likely level of dilapidation costs. We considered specific issues on certain Group properties, such as the 
shops which previously had in-store bakeries, and critically assessed the impact of these on the provisions made. 
 – We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the 
provisions and the sensitivity to key assumptions involved. 
We continued to perform procedures over the impairment of property, plant and equipment. However, following the improved 
performance of the Group, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore,  
it is not separately identified in our report this year. 68 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Greggs plc only continued
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at £3.6 million (53 weeks ended 3 January 2015: £2.9 million), determined  
with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of which it represents five per cent (53 weeks ended 3 January 2015: 
determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude that year’s exceptional charge as 
disclosed in Note 4, of £58.3 million, of which it represents five per cent). 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding £181,000 (53 weeks ended 
3 January 2015: £145,000), in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information. The audit was 
performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100 per cent (2014: 100 per cent) of total Group revenue, Group 
profit before tax and total Group assets. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared 
is consistent with the accounts.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 – the Directors’ viability statement on page 25, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the 
Directors’ assessment and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the three years to 2018; or 
 – the disclosures on page 76 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 
 – we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statements 
that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; or
 – the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 – the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 
 – the Directors’ statements, set out on pages 25 and 76, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and 
 – the part of the corporate governance statement on page 39 relating to the Company’s compliance with the 11 provisions of the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 69 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of 
accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report  
as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken 
and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Thompson
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Quayside House
110 Quayside
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 3DX
1 March 2016 70 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 (2014: 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015)
Note
2015
Total
£’000
2014
Excluding 
exceptional items
(Restated)
£’000
2014
Exceptional  
items 
 (see Note 4)
£’000
2014
Total
(Restated)
£’000
Revenue 1 835,749 806,096 – 806,096
Cost of sales (305,116) (304,786) (5,932) (310,718)
Gross profit 530,633 501,310 (5,932) 495,378
Distribution and selling costs (412,426) (403,003) (282) (403,285)
Administrative expenses (45,094) (40,223) (2,302) (42,525)
Operating profit 73,113 58,084 (8,516) 49,568
Finance (expense)/income 6 (85) 175 – 175
Profit before tax 3-6 73,028 58,259 (8,516) 49,743
Income tax 8 (15,428) (13,997) 1,810 (12,187)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity 
holders of the Parent 57,600 44,262 (6,706) 37,556
Basic earnings per share 9 57.3p 44.0p (6.6p) 37.4p
Diluted earnings per share 9 55.8p 43.4p (6.6p) 36.8p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 (2014: 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015)
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the financial year 57,600 37,556
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be recycled to profit and loss:
Re-measurements on defined benefit pension plans 21 4,915 (8,575)
Tax on re-measurements on defined benefit pension plans 8 (885) 1,715
Other comprehensive income for the financial year, net of income tax 4,030 (6,860)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 61,630 30,696 71 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Group Parent Company
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 10,248 4,721 10,248 4,721
Property, plant and equipment 11 284,163 262,719 284,756 263,312
Investments 12 – – 4,987 4,987
Deferred tax asset 13 3,830 – 4,305 –
298,241 267,440 304,296 273,020
Current assets
Inventories 14 15,444 15,290 15,444 15,290
Trade and other receivables 15 27,647 26,091 27,647 26,091
Assets held for sale 16 – 6,500 – 6,500
Cash and cash equivalents 17 42,915 43,615 42,915 43,615
Other investments 12 – 10,000 – 10,000
86,006 101,496 86,006 101,496
Total assets 384,247 368,936 390,302 374,516
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (92,780) (89,954) (100,587) (97,761)
Current tax liability 19 (9,580) (8,056) (9,580) (8,056)
Provisions 22 (3,675) (4,109) (3,675) (4,109)
(106,035) (102,119) (113,842) (109,926)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 20 (6,071) (6,555) (6,071) (6,555)
Defined benefit pension liability 21 (3,910) (8,518) (3,910) (8,518)
Deferred tax liability 13 – (2,539) – (2,012)
Long-term provisions 22 (1,957) (2,502) (1,957) (2,502)
(11,938) (20,114) (11,938) (19,587)
Total liabilities (117,973) (122,233) (125,780) (129,513)
Net assets 266,274 246,703 264,522 245,003
EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 23 2,023 2,023 2,023 2,023
Share premium account 13,533 13,533 13,533 13,533
Capital redemption reserve 23 416 416 416 416
Retained earnings 250,302 230,731 248,550 229,031
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent 266,274 246,703 264,522 245,003
The accounts on pages 70 to 99 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Whiteside
Richard Hutton 
Company Registered Number 502851
Balance sheets
at 2 January 2016 (2014: 3 January 2015) 72 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statements of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 (2014: 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015)
Group
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015
Note
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 29 December 2013 2,023 13,533 416 220,205 236,177
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the financial year – – – 37,556 37,556
Other comprehensive income – – – (6,860) (6,860)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 30,696 30,696
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Sale of own shares – – – 5,257 5,257
Purchase of own shares – – – (7,873) (7,873)
Share-based payment transactions 21 – – – 529 529
Dividends to equity holders 23 – – – (19,570) (19,570)
Tax items taken directly to reserves 8 – – – 1,487 1,487
Total transactions with owners – – – (20,170) (20,170)
Balance at 3 January 2015 2,023 13,533 416 230,731 246,703
52 weeks ended 2 January 2016
Note
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 4 January 2015 2,023 13,533 416 230,731 246,703
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the financial year – – – 57,600 57,600
Other comprehensive income – – – 4,030 4,030
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 61,630 61,630
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Sale of own shares – – – 3,876 3,876
Purchase of own shares – – – (11,125) (11,125)
Share-based payment transactions 21 – – – 3,662 3,662
Dividends to equity holders 23 – – – (43,714) (43,714)
Tax items taken directly to reserves 8 – – – 5,242 5,242
Total transactions with owners – – – (42,059) (42,059)
Balance at 2 January 2016 2,023 13,533 416 250,302 266,274 73 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Parent Company
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015
Note
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 29 December 2013 2,023 13,533 416 218,505 234,477
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the financial year 7 – – – 37,556 37,556
Other comprehensive income – – – (6,860) (6,860)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 30,696 30,696
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Sale of own shares – – – 5,257 5,257
Purchase of own shares – – – (7,873) (7,873)
Share-based payment transactions 21 – – – 529 529
Dividends to equity holders 23 – – – (19,570) (19,570)
Tax items taken directly to reserves 8 – – – 1,487 1,487
Total transactions with owners – – – (20,170) (20,170)
Balance at 3 January 2015 2,023 13,533 416 229,031 245,003
52 weeks ended 2 January 2016
Note
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 4 January 2015 2,023 13,533 416 229,031 245,003
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the financial year 7 – – – 57,548 57,548
Other comprehensive income – – – 4,030 4,030
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 61,578 61,578
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Sale of own shares – – – 3,876 3,876
Purchase of own shares – – – (11,125) (11,125)
Share-based payment transactions 21 – – – 3,662 3,662
Dividends to equity holders 23 – – – (43,714) (43,714)
Tax items taken directly to reserves 8 – – – 5,242 5,242
Total transactions with owners – – – (42,059) (42,059)
Balance at 2 January 2016 2,023 13,533 416 248,550 264,522
Statements of changes in equity continued
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 (2014: 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015) 74 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statements of cashflows
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 (2014: 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015)
Note
Group Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Operating activities
Cash generated from operations (see below) 119,637 108,552 119,637 108,552
Income tax paid (15,916) (11,462) (15,916) (11,462)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 103,721 97,090 103,721 97,090
Investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (65,785) (44,456) (65,785) (44,456)
Acquisition of intangible assets (5,981) (3,809) (5,981) (3,809)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8,086 2,231 8,086 2,231
Interest received 6 222 173 222 173
Redemption/(acquisition) of other investments 12 10,000 (7,000) 10,000 (7,000)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (53,458) (52,861) (53,458) (52,861)
Financing activities
Sale of own shares 3,876 5,257 3,876 5,257
Purchase of own shares (11,125) (7,873) (11,125) (7,873)
Dividends paid 23 (43,714) (19,570) (43,714) (19,570)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (50,963) (22,186) (50,963) (22,186)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (700) 22,043 (700) 22,043
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 17 43,615 21,572 43,615 21,572
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 17 42,915 43,615 42,915 43,615
Cash flow statement – cash generated from operations
2015
 £’000
2014
 £’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the financial year 57,600 37,556 57,548 37,556
Amortisation 10 454 100 454 100
Depreciation 11 39,687 37,463 39,687 37,463
Impairment 11 66 414 66 414
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 2,952 3,576 2,952 3,576
Release of government grants (484) (473) (484) (473)
Share-based payment expenses 21 3,662 529 3,662 529
Finance expense/(income) 6 85 (175) 85 (175)
Income tax expense 8 15,428 12,187 15,480 12,187
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (154) 115 (154) 115
Increase in receivables (1,555) (1,079) (1,555) (1,079)
Increase in payables 2,875 17,089 2,875 17,089
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (979) 1,250 (979) 1,250
Cash from operating activities 119,637 108,552 119,637 108,552 75 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Significant accounting policies
Greggs plc (‘the Company’) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The Group accounts consolidate those of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as ‘the Group’). The results of the associate are not consolidated on the 
grounds of materiality. The Parent Company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about 
its Group.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 March 2016.
(a) Statement of compliance
Both the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. On publishing the Parent Company accounts here together with the 
Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its 
individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
(b) Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis 
except the defined benefit pension asset/liability, which is recognised as plan assets less the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Directors’ report and strategic report on pages 01 to 65. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity 
position are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 21. In addition, Note 2 to the accounts includes: the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the IFRS transition date (1 January 2004), as no significant 
acquisitions had taken place during the previous ten years. The Group’s policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill 
arising upon acquisitions against reserves. Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group and to all years presented in these 
consolidated accounts and are unchanged from previous years with the exception of the adoption of the following relevant 
standards, amendments and interpretations:
 – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19 
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle 
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2011-2013 Cycle 
The adoption of the above has not had a significant impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity. The other standards and 
interpretations that are applicable for the first time in the Group’s accounts for the year have no effect on these accounts.
Restatement of comparatives
During the current year the Group has continued to expand its franchise operations. Certain of these arrangements include 
up-front payments from franchisees receivable in respect of the capital fit-out of the franchise operators’ shops. Due to these 
up-front payments becoming material in the year, the Directors have reconsidered the application of IAS 18 to these specific 
transactions. They have now determined that the Group is acting as a principal in these transactions whilst previously these had 
been presented as if they were acting as agents. The prior-year figures have been restated for this change in presentation. For the 
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 both turnover and cost of sales have increased by £2,135,000. There is no impact on profit, 
balance sheet or cash flows for this change in presentation.
In addition, a review of income statement categorisations was carried out which identified two re-categorisations. Firstly it was 
determined that it was more appropriate for all wage costs associated with bakery and distribution centre despatch activities to 
be included in distribution and selling costs, rather than some being included in cost of sales. The net impact of this for the 
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 has been a decrease in cost of sales and a corresponding increase in distribution and selling costs 
of £7,294,000. Secondly, early settlement discounts should have been included in administrative costs rather than cost of sales. 
The net impact for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 has been an increase in cost of sales and a decrease in administrative costs 
of £80,000. There is no impact on profit, balance sheet or cash flows arising from these changes in categorisation.
Notes to the consolidated accounts 76 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Basis of preparation continued
Going concern
Directors have reviewed the Company’s operational and investment plans for the next 12 months along with the principal risks  
and uncertainties that could affect these plans or threaten its liquidity. The key factors likely to affect future performance and the 
Company’s exposure to risks are set out on pages 24 to 25 of the strategic report. In addition the financial review on pages 20 to 
21 sets out the Company’s net cash position and continued strong cash generation.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the next 12 months. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the annual report and accounts.
Key estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial information in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The 
estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision 
affects both current and future years.
Provisions
Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases and dilapidations. These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability 
at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular shop or 
the ability of the Group to exit from the lease commitment. Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, 
with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. For example, bakery equipment may be impaired if it is no longer in use and/or shop fittings may be 
impaired if sales in that shop fall. When a review for impairment is conducted the recoverable amount is estimated based on 
value-in-use calculations which include management’s estimates of future cash flows generated by the assets and an appropriate 
discount rate. Consideration is also given to whether the impairment assessments made in prior years remain appropriate based 
on the latest expectations in respect of value-in-use and recoverable value. Where it is concluded that the impairment has 
reduced a reversal of the impairment is recorded. The sensitivities for growth rate, discount rate and lease term have been 
considered and are deemed not significant. For instance, a two per cent change in the growth rate would result in a £43,000 
change in the impairment charge.
Post retirement benefits
The determination of the defined benefit obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of 
certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rates. Differences arising from actual experience or 
future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future years. The key assumptions made for 2015 are given in Note 21.
(c) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 
2016. The comparative period is the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015.
 (i) Subsidiaries
 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date on which control commences until the 
date on which control ceases. 
 (ii) Associates
 Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating 
policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of 
another entity. At the year end the Group has one associate which has not been consolidated on grounds of materiality (see 
note 12).
 (iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
 Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts. 
(d) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are 
considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement. Any future 
movements on items previously classified as exceptional will also be classified as exceptional. 77 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
(e) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the 
income statement.
(f) Intangible assets
The Group’s only intangible assets relate to software and the costs of its implementation which is measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to 
which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets 
from the date that they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are five years. 
Assets in the course of development are re-categorised and amortisation commences when the assets are available for use.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
 (i) Owned assets
 Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and 
impairment losses (see accounting policy (k)). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour 
and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
 (ii) Subsequent costs
 The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the 
item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group, and its costs 
can be measured reliably. The carrying value of the replaced component is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing 
of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
 (iii) Depreciation
 Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost (less residual value) of each item of property, plant and equipment during 
its expected useful life using the straight-line method over the following periods:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 40 years
Short leasehold properties 10 years or length of lease if shorter
Plant, machinery, equipment, vehicles, fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years
 Freehold land is not depreciated.
 Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values (if not insignificant) are reassessed annually.
 (iv) Assets in the course of construction
 These assets are re-categorised and depreciation commences when the assets are available for use.
(h) Investments
Non-current investments comprise investments in subsidiaries and associates which are carried at cost less impairment.
Current investments comprise fixed-term fixed-rate bank deposits where the term is greater than three months.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. The cost of inventories includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and direct production labour costs.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank 
overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component 
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 78 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Significant accounting policies continued
(k) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group and Company’s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at  
each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. Impairment reviews are carried out on an individual shop basis unless there are a number of 
shops in the same location, in which case the impairment review is based on the location.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses 
are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in prior years are assessed at each reporting date and 
reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed 
only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined,  
net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
(l) Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified  
as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are re-measured in accordance with the Group and 
Company’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less cost to sell. Once classified as held for sale assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
(m) Share capital
 (i) Re-purchase of share capital
 When share capital recognised as equity is re-purchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable 
costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity. Re-purchased shares that are held in the employee share ownership plan are 
classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
 (ii) Dividends
 Dividends are recognised as a liability when the Company has an obligation to pay and the dividend is no longer at the 
Company’s discretion.
(n) Employee share ownership plan
The Group and Parent Company accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’).  
In both the Group and Parent Company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from total equity.
(o) Employee benefits
 (i) Short-term employee benefits
 Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount 
expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service 
provided by the employee and the obligation can be measured reliably.
 (ii) Defined contribution plans
 Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
when they are due. 
 (iii) Defined benefit plans
 The Company’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The Company determines the net 
interest on the net defined benefit asset/liability for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined 
benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit asset/liability.
 The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on bonds that have a credit rating of at least AA, that have maturity dates 
approximating to the terms of the Company’s obligations and that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are 
expected to be paid.
 Re-measurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses and the return on plan assets 
(excluding interest). The Company recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income and all other expenses related 
to defined benefit plans in employee benefit expenses in the income statement.
 When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the portion of the changed benefit related to past service 
by employees, or the gain or loss on curtailment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss when the plan amendment or 
curtailment occurs.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 79 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
 The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of benefits 
available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions and takes into account the 
adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
 (iv) Share-based payment transactions
 The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of share options 
granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, 
and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due 
to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
 (v) Termination benefits
 Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of the date at which the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of these 
benefits and the date at which the Group recognises costs for a restructuring. If benefits are not expected to be settled wholly 
within 12 months of the reporting date they are discounted.
(p) Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be 
estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
 (i) Restructuring
 A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the 
restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
 (ii) Onerous leases
 Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease 
obligations exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under the lease. Before a provision is established the 
Group recognises any impairment loss on the associated assets.
 (iii) Dilapidations
 Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis and are based on the Group’s best estimate of the likely 
committed cash outflow.
(q) Revenue
 (i) Retail sales
 Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash or card payment. Revenue is measured net of 
discounts, promotions and value added taxation.
 (ii) Franchise sales
 Franchise sales are recognised when goods are dispatched to franchisees. Any additional franchise fee income relating to 
franchise sales is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement. Capital fit-out 
costs are recharged to the franchisee and recognised when they are completed.
 (iii) Wholesale sales
 Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are dispatched to customers.
 (iv) Loyalty programme/gift cards
 Amounts received for gift cards or as part of the loyalty programme are deferred. They are recognised as revenue when the 
Group has fulfilled its obligation to supply products under the terms of the programme or when it is no longer probable that 
these amounts will be redeemed. No adjustment is made to revenue to reflect the fair value of the free items provided under 
the loyalty scheme as these would be immaterial to the accounts. The costs of these free items are expensed as the products 
are provided to the customer.
(r) Government grants
Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will 
be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses 
incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants 
that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset. 80 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Significant accounting policies continued
(s) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term  
of the lease.
(t) Finance income and expense
Interest income or expense is recognised using the effective interest method.
(u) Income tax
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of 
deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised. 
(v) Research and development
The Company continuously strives to improve its products and processes through technical and other innovation. Such 
expenditure is typically expensed to the income statement as the related intellectual property is not capable of being formalised 
and does not always have distinguishable research and development phases.
(w) IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied
The following standards and amendments to standards which will be relevant to the Group were available for early adoption but 
have not been applied in these accounts:
 – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 for accounting 
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016.
 – Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – Amendments to IAS 27 for accounting periods commencing on or after 
1 January 2016.
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2012-2014 Cycle for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016.
 – Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016.
These standards and amendments will be adopted as they become effective and none of them is expected to have a significant 
impact on the accounts.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 81 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
1. Segmental analysis
The Board is considered to be the ‘chief operating decision maker’ of the Group in the context of the IFRS 8 definition. In addition 
to its retail activities, the Group generates revenues from franchise and wholesale. However, these elements of the business are 
not sufficiently significant to be ‘Reportable Segments’ in the context of IFRS 8.
Products and services – the Group sells a consistent range of fresh bakery goods, sandwiches and drinks in its shops. The Group 
also provides frozen bakery products to its wholesale customers.
Major customers – the majority of sales are made to the general public on a cash basis. A small proportion of sales are made on 
credit to certain organisations, including wholesale customers, but these are immaterial in a Group context.
Geographical areas – all results arise in the UK.
The Board has carefully considered the requirements of IFRS 8 and concluded that, as there is only one reportable segment 
whose revenue, profits, assets and liabilities are measured and reported on a consistent basis with the Group accounts no 
additional numerical disclosures are necessary.
2. Financial risk management
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations.
Retail sales represent a large proportion of the Group’s sales and present no credit risk as they are made for cash or card 
payments. The Group does offer credit terms on sales to its wholesale and franchise customers. In such cases the Group operates 
effective credit control procedures in order to minimise exposure to overdue debts.
Counterparty risk is also considered low. All of the Group’s surplus cash is held with highly-rated banks, in line with Group policy.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group operates with net current liabilities and is therefore reliant on the continued strong performance of the retail portfolio 
to meet its short-term liabilities. This is a well-established and proven business model. Any increase in short-term liquidity risk can 
be mitigated by reducing capital expenditure. The model has been tested in various scenarios for the Group’s viability statement 
which is included in the strategic report on page 25. The Group had significant cash resources at the year end. 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
Market risk is not significant and therefore sensitivity analysis would not be meaningful.
Currency risk
The Group has no regular transactions in foreign currency although there are occasional purchases, mainly of capital items, 
denominated in foreign currency. Whilst certain costs such as electricity and wheat can be influenced by movements in the US 
dollar, actual contracts are priced in sterling. In respect of those key costs which are volatile, such as electricity and flour, the price 
may be fixed for a period of time in line with Group policy. All such contracts are for the Group’s own expected usage.
Interest rate risk
The Group has low exposure to interest rate risk. Interest only arises on its bank deposits and overdrafts and the defined benefit 
pension scheme liability. Net financial expense in the year was £85,000 (2014: income of £175,000).
Equity price risk
The Group has no equity investments other than its subsidiaries and associate. As disclosed in Note 21 the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme has investments in equity-related funds. 82 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2. Financial risk management continued
Capital management 
The Board defines capital as the equity of the Group. The Group has remained net cash positive with funding requirements met 
by cash generated from retail operations. The Board considers that it is not currently appropriate to take on structural debt given 
the inherent leverage of the leasehold shop estate and working capital requirements. The Board’s policy on dividend levels is to 
pursue a progressive dividend policy that pays due regard to the growth of earnings per share over the medium term, the 
cash-generative nature of the business and the continuing determination to deliver value to shareholders. The Board would 
expect to return any material level of surplus capital to shareholders, likely by way of a special dividend.
The Board reserves the option to purchase its own shares in the market dependent on market prices and surplus cash levels.  
The trustees of the Greggs Employment Benefit Trust also purchase shares for future satisfaction of employee share options.
Financial instruments
Group and Parent Company
All of the Group’s surplus cash is invested as cash placed on deposit or fixed-term deposits.
The Group’s treasury policy has as its principal objective the achievement of the maximum rate of return on cash balances whilst 
maintaining an acceptable level of risk. Other than mentioned below there are no financial instruments, derivatives or commodity 
contracts used.
Financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s main financial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents and fixed-term deposits. Other financial assets include 
trade receivables arising from the Group’s activities.
Other than trade and other payables, the Group had no financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 as at 2 January 2016 (2014: £nil).
Fair values
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is not materially different from their carrying values. Financial assets  
and liabilities comprise principally of trade receivables and trade payables and the only interest-bearing balances are the bank 
deposits and borrowings which attract interest at variable rates.
Interest rate, credit and foreign currency risk
The Group has not entered into any hedging transactions during the year and considers interest rate, credit and foreign currency 
risks not to be significant.
3. Profit before tax
Profit before tax is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amortisation of intangible assets 454 100
Depreciation on owned property, plant and equipment 39,687 37,463
Impairment of owned property, plant and equipment 66 414
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 2,952 3,576
Release of government grants (484) (473)
Payments under operating leases – property rents 46,173 48,451
Research and development expenditure 320 465
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Audit of these accounts 140 140
Audit of pension schemes’ accounts 7 7
Other services – tax compliance 21 21
Other services – tax advisory 12 25
All other services 12 5
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s accounts, 
have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be presented on a consolidated basis.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 83 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
4. Exceptional items
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost of sales
Closure of in-store bakeries – redundancy and disruption costs – 3,190
  – loss on disposal of assets – 664
   – dilapidations – 2,078
– 5,932
Distribution and selling
Shop asset impairment reversal – (149)
Onerous leases – 431
– 282
Administrative expenses
Restructuring of support functions – 2,302
Total exceptional items – 8,516
The judgements made in calculating the provisions which arose as prior year exceptional items have been revisited. No additional 
amounts have been charged or reversed in the current year in respect of these. There remains some uncertainty in relation to 
these provisions which will be re-assessed in future periods, with any movements being classified as exceptional. 
Closure of in-store bakeries
The charge arose from the decision to consolidate the Company’s in-store bakeries into its regional bakery network and 
comprised of redundancy costs, disruption costs arising on the transfer of production from stores to regional bakeries, asset 
write-offs and the costs of making good the shops (dilapidations) as bakery equipment is removed.
Shop impairment and onerous leases
The charges arose from the decision to focus on reshaping the Group’s existing estate through closure and resite of shops and 
withdrawal from the Greggs moment brand.
Restructuring of support functions
The charge related to the redundancy costs incurred in respect of restructuring within the support functions.
5. Personnel expenses
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Management 713 698
Administration 454 386
Production 3,029 3,143
Shop 15,651 15,136
19,847 19,363
The aggregate costs of these persons were as follows:
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 280,559 281,336
Compulsory social security contributions 19,485 19,578
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 21 10,302 9,901
Equity-settled transactions 21 3,662 529
314,008 311,344 84 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5. Personnel expenses continued
In addition to wages and salaries, the total amount accrued under the Group’s employee profit sharing scheme is contained within 
the main cost categories as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost of sales 2,107 1,657
Distribution and selling costs 5,025 3,952
Administrative expenses 974 765
8,106 6,374
For the purposes of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ key management personnel comprises the Directors and their 
remuneration was as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Salaries and fees 1,388 1,343
Taxable benefits 40 36
Annual bonus (including profit share) 1,056 1,101
Post-retirement benefits 183 195
Share-based payments 1,394 304
4,061 2,979
The aggregate amount of gains made on exercise of share options by the Directors was £1,195,000 (2014: £1,000). The number of 
Directors in the defined contribution pension scheme and in the defined benefit pension scheme was two (2014: two).
6. Finance (expense)/income
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest income on cash balances 198 183
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) 24 (10)
Net interest related to defined benefit obligation 21 (307) 2
(85) 175
7. Profit attributable to Greggs plc
Of the Group profit for the year, £57,548,000 (2014: £37,556,000) is dealt with in the accounts of the Parent Company. The 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own 
income statement.
8. Income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
Total
2015
£’000
Excluding 
exceptional 
items
2014
£’000
Exceptional 
items
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Current tax
Current year 17,970 15,776 (1,534) 14,242
Adjustment for prior years (530) (229) – (229)
17,440 15,547 (1,534) 14,013
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,038) (1,471) (276) (1,747)
Reduction in tax rate (254) – – –
Adjustment for prior years (720) (79) – (79)
(2,012) (1,550) (276) (1,826)
Total income tax expense in income statement 15,428 13,997 (1,810) 12,187
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 85 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2015
2015
£’000 2014
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 73,028 49,743
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 20.25% 14,788 21.5% 10,695
Non-deductible expenses 0.95% 698 1.0% 521
Non-qualifying depreciation 1.7% 1,263 2.5% 1,245
Loss on disposal of non-qualifying assets 0.1% 53 0.1% 34
Impact of reduction in deferred tax rate (0.2%) (124) – –
Adjustment for prior years (1.7%) (1,250) (0.6%) (308)
Total income tax expense in income statement 21.1% 15,428 24.5% 12,187
Reconciliation of effective tax rate (underlying excluding exceptional items)
2015
2015
£’000 2014
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 73,028 58,259
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 20.25% 14,788 21.5% 12,526
Non-deductible expenses 0.95% 698 0.8% 500
Non-qualifying depreciation 1.7% 1,263 2.1% 1,245
Loss on disposal of non-qualifying assets 0.1% 53 0.1% 34
Impact of reduction in deferred tax rate (0.2%) (124) – –
Adjustment for prior years (1.7%) (1,250) (0.5%) (308)
Total income tax expense in income statement 21.1% 15,428 24.0% 13,997
On 26 October 2015 reductions in the rate of corporation tax from 20 per cent to 19 per cent with effect from 1 April 2017 and 
from 19 per cent to 18 per cent with effect from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted. Any timing differences which reverse 
before 1 April 2017 will be charged/credited at 20 per cent, any timing differences which reverse between 1 April 2017 and 1 April 
2020 will do so at 19 per cent and any timing differences which exist at 1 April 2020 will reverse at 18 per cent.
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity
2015
Current  
tax
£’000
2015
Deferred 
tax
£’000
2015
Total
£’000
2014
Total
£’000
Debit/(credit):
Relating to equity-settled transactions – (5,242) (5,242) (1,487)
Relating to defined benefit plans – re-measurement gains/(losses) – 885 885 (1,715)
– (4,357) (4,357) (3,202)
The deferred tax credit in the year relating to equity-settled transactions is in respect of share-based payments and arises 
primarily as a result of the increased share price in the year and the stage of maturity of existing schemes.
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 is calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary 
shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 as 
calculated overleaf.
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 is calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary 
shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary 
shares (which comprise share options granted to employees) outstanding during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 as 
calculated overleaf. 86 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9. Earnings per share continued
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Total
2015
£’000
Excluding 
exceptional 
items
2014
£’000
Exceptional 
items
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 57,600 44,262 (6,706) 37,556
Basic earnings per share 57.3p 44.0p (6.6p) 37.4p
Diluted earnings per share 55.8p 43.4p (6.6p) 36.8p
 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
2015
Number
2014
Number
Issued ordinary shares at start of year 101,155,901 101,155,901
Effect of own shares held (551,314) (638,815)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 100,604,587 100,517,086
Effect of share options on issue 2,616,364 1,517,722
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 103,220,951 102,034,808
10. Intangible assets
Group and Parent Company
Software
£’000
Assets under 
development
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013 1,715 – 1,715
Additions 817 2,992 3,809
Balance at 3 January 2015 2,532 2,992 5,524
Balance at 4 January 2015 2,532 2,992 5,524
Additions – 5,981 5,981
Balance at 2 January 2016 2,532 8,973 11,505
Amortisation
Balance at 29 December 2013 703 – 703
Amortisation charge for the year 100 – 100
Balance at 3 January 2015 803 – 803
Balance at 4 January 2015 803 – 803
Amortisation charge for the year 454 – 454
Balance at 2 January 2016 1,257 – 1,257
Carrying amounts
At 29 December 2013 1,012 – 1,012
At 3 January 2015 1,729 2,992 4,721
At 4 January 2015 1,729 2,992 4,721
At 2 January 2016 1,275 8,973 10,248
Assets under development relate to software projects arising from the investment in new systems platforms.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 87 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
11. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Note
Land and
buildings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Fixtures
and fittings
£’000
Assets under
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013 135,031 120,152 249,194 – 504,377
Additions 429 10,121 34,278 278 45,106
Disposals (612) (6,654) (32,748) – (40,014)
Transfer to assets held for sale (6,885) – – – (6,885)
Balance at 3 January 2015 127,963 123,619 250,724 278 502,584
Balance at 4 January 2015 127,963 123,619 250,724 278 502,584
Additions 70 9,265 45,510 10,890 65,735
Disposals (1,034) (3,120) (28,527) – (32,681)
Balance at 2 January 2016 126,999 129,764 267,707 11,168 535,638
Depreciation
Balance at 29 December 2013 31,936 74,701 129,943 – 236,580
Depreciation charge for the year 2,838 10,529 24,096 – 37,463
Ordinary impairment charge for the year – – 974 – 974
Ordinary impairment release for the year – – (411) – (411)
Exceptional impairment release for the year 4 – – (149) – (149)
Disposals (297) (5,468) (28,442) – (34,207)
Transfer to assets held for sale (385) – – – (385)
Balance at 3 January 2015 34,092 79,762 126,011 – 239,865
Balance at 4 January 2015 34,092 79,762 126,011 – 239,865
Depreciation charge for the year 2,772 10,544 26,371 – 39,687
Impairment charge for the year – 133 537 – 670
Impairment release for the year – – (604) – (604)
Disposals (845) (2,789) (24,509) – (28,143)
Balance at 2 January 2016 36,019 87,650 127,806 – 251,475
Carrying amounts
At 29 December 2013 103,095 45,451 119,251 – 267,797
At 3 January 2015 93,871 43,857 124,713 278 262,719
At 4 January 2015 93,871 43,857 124,713 278 262,719
At 2 January 2016 90,980 42,114 139,901 11,168 284,163
Assets are reviewed for impairment on a regular basis and provision made where necessary. For shop assets a discounted 
cashflow is calculated for each shop using historic cashflows including attributable overheads, a zero per cent growth rate, the 
Group’s cost of capital of ten per cent and an appropriate assumption regarding the remaining lease term. The net book value of 
the relevant assets attributable to the shop is impaired to the extent that the net present value of the cashflows is lower than the 
net book value. Supply chain assets are impaired to their estimated net realisable value.
Included within disposals for the prior year were fixtures and fittings with a net book value of £849,000 which related to the 
closure of the in-store bakeries. The loss on disposal of these assets was £664,000 and formed part of the exceptional charge 
detailed in Note 4. 88 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11. Property, plant and equipment continued
Parent Company
Note
Land and
buildings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Fixtures
and fittings
£’000
Assets under
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013 135,541 120,685 249,682 – 505,908
Additions 429 10,121 34,278 278 45,106
Disposals (612) (6,654) (32,748) – (40,014)
Transfer to assets held for sale (6,885) – – – (6,885)
Balance at 3 January 2015 128,473 124,152 251,212 278 504,115
Balance at 4 January 2015 128,473 124,152 251,212 278 504,115
Additions 70 9,265 45,510 10,890 65,735
Disposals (1,034) (3,120) (28,527) – (32,681)
Balance at 2 January 2016 127,509 130,297 268,195 11,168 537,169
Depreciation
Balance at 29 December 2013 32,213 74,971 130,334 – 237,518
Depreciation charge for the year 2,838 10,529 24,096 – 37,463
Ordinary impairment charge for the year – – 974 – 974
Ordinary impairment release for the year – – (411) – (411)
Exceptional impairment release for the year 4 – – (149) – (149)
Disposals (297) (5,468) (28,442) – (34,207)
Transfer to assets held for sale (385) – – – (385)
Balance at 3 January 2015 34,369 80,032 126,402 – 240,803
Balance at 4 January 2015 34,369 80,032 126,402 – 240,803
Depreciation charge for the year 2,772 10,544 26,371 – 39,687
Impairment charge for the year – 133 537 – 670
Impairment release for the year – – (604) – (604)
Disposals (845) (2,789) (24,509) – (28,143)
Balance at 2 January 2016 36,296 87,920 128,197 – 252,413
Carrying amounts
At 29 December 2013 103,328 45,714 119,348 – 268,390
At 3 January 2015 94,104 44,120 124,810 278 263,312
At 4 January 2015 94,104 44,120 124,810 278 263,312
At 2 January 2016 91,213 42,377 139,998 11,168 284,756
Land and buildings
The carrying amount of land and buildings comprises:
Group Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Freehold property 90,780 93,808 91,013 94,041
Long leasehold property 3 1 3 1
Short leasehold property 197 62 197 62
90,980 93,871 91,213 94,104
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 89 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
12. Investments
Non-current investments
Parent Company
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£’000
Cost
Balance at 29 December 2013, 3 January 2015 and 2 January 2016 5,828
Impairment
Balance at 29 December 2013, 3 January 2015 and 2 January 2016 841
Carrying amount
Balance at 29 December 2013, 3 January 2015, 4 January 2015 and 2 January 2016 4,987
The undertakings in which the Company’s interest at the year end is more than 20 per cent are as follows:
Principal activity Country of incorporation
Proportion of voting rights 
and shares held
Charles Bragg (Bakers) Limited Non-trading England and Wales 100%
Greggs (Leasing) Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
Thurston Parfitt Limited Non-trading England and Wales 100%
Greggs Properties Limited Property holding England and Wales 100%
Olivers (U.K.) Limited Dormant Scotland 100%
Olivers (U.K.) Development Limited* Non-trading Scotland 100%
Birketts Holdings Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
J.R. Birkett and Sons Limited* Non-trading England and Wales 100%
Greggs Trustees Limited Trustees England and Wales 100%
Solstice Zone A Management Company Limited Non-trading England and Wales 28%
* Held indirectly.
Solstice Zone A Management Company Limited was not consolidated on the grounds of materiality.
The Company’s subsidiary undertakings listed above were all entitled to exemption, under subsections (1) and (2) of section 480 
of Companies Act 2006 relating to dormant companies, from the requirement to have their accounts audited.
Current investments
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fixed-term deposit – 10,000
This represents cash placed on deposit that had a maturity of between three and six months at the date of inception. The fair 
value of the deposit is the same as its book value. 90 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Property, plant and equipment – – (5,080) (7,054) (5,080) (7,054)
Employee benefits 8,878 4,034 – – 8,878 4,034
Short-term temporary differences 32 481 – – 32 481
Tax assets/(liabilities) 8,910 4,515 (5,080) (7,054) 3,830 (2,539)
The movements in temporary differences during the year ended 3 January 2015 were as follows:
Balance at 
29 December
2013
£’000
Recognised
in income
£’000
Recognised
in equity
£’000
Balance at 
3 January 
2015
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (8,608) 1,554 – (7,054)
Employee benefits 809 82 3,143 4,034
Short-term temporary differences 291 190 – 481
(7,508) 1,826 3,143 (2,539)
The movements in temporary differences during the year ended 2 January 2016 were as follows:
Balance at 
4 January 
2015
£’000
Recognised
in income
£’000
Recognised
in equity
£’000
Balance at 
2 January 
2016
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (7,054) 1,974 – (5,080)
Employee benefits 4,034 487 4,357 8,878
Short-term temporary differences 481 (449) – 32
(2,539) 2,012 4,357 3,830
Parent Company
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Property, plant and equipment – – (4,605) (6,527) (4,605) (6,527)
Employee benefits 8,878 4,034 – – 8,878 4,034
Short-term temporary differences 32 481 – – 32 481
Tax assets/(liabilities) 8,910 4,515 (4,605) (6,527) 4,305 (2,012)
The movements in temporary differences during the year ended 3 January 2015 were as follows:
Balance at 
29 December
2013
£’000
Recognised
in income
£’000
Recognised
in equity
£’000
Balance at 
3 January 
2015
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (8,081) 1,554 – (6,527)
Employee benefits 809 82 3,143 4,034
Short-term temporary differences 291 190 – 481
(6,981) 1,826 3,143 (2,012)
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 91 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
The movements in temporary differences during the year ended 2 January 2016 were as follows:
Balance at 
4 January 
2015
£’000
Recognised
in income
£’000
Recognised
in equity
£’000
Balance at 
2 January 
2016
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (6,527) 1,922 – (4,605)
Employee benefits 4,034 487 4,357 8,878
Short-term temporary differences 481 (449) – 32
(2,012) 1,960 4,357 4,305
The deferred tax asset, which principally arises in respect of employee benefits is expected to reverse within 12 months. As the 
Company anticipates having sufficient taxable profits to utilise these deductions it is considered appropriate to recognise the 
deferred tax asset.
14. Inventories
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 12,213 11,833
Work in progress 3,231 3,457
15,444 15,290
15. Trade and other receivables
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade receivables 9,496 7,311
Other receivables 4,513 6,512
Prepayments 13,638 12,268
27,647 26,091
At 2 January 2016 trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad debts of £31,000 (2014: £41,000) arising in the ordinary 
course of business.
The ageing of trade receivables that were not impaired at the balance sheet date was:
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Not past due date 6,089 5,398
Past due 1-30 days 3,283 1,765
Past due 31-90 days 80 148
Past due over 90 days 44 –
9,496 7,311
The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by more than 30 days are still collectable in full based on 
historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk. Based on the Group’s monitoring of customer credit 
risk, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
16. Assets held for sale
The asset held for sale at 3 January 2015 was land at Southall which had been identified as no longer required for supply chain 
expansion. An offer for the site was received in 2014 and negotiations to finalise the sale were ongoing. The sale of the site was 
completed during 2015.
17. Cash and cash equivalents
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 42,915 43,615 92 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18. Trade and other payables
Group Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 42,405 40,865 42,405 40,865
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 7,807 7,807
Other taxes and social security 5,912 5,767 5,912 5,767
Other payables 27,085 24,753 27,085 24,753
Accruals and deferred income 16,910 18,101 16,910 18,101
Deferred government grants 468 468 468 468
92,780 89,954 100,587 97,761
19. Current tax liability
The current tax liability of £9,580,000 in the Group and the Parent Company (2014: Group and Parent Company £8,056,000) 
represents the estimated amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior years.
20. Non-current liabilities – other payables
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred government grants 6,071 6,555
The Group has been awarded five government grants relating to the extension of existing facilities and construction of new 
facilities. The grants, which have all been recognised as deferred income, are being amortised over the weighted average of the 
useful lives of the assets they have been used to acquire.
21. Employee benefits
Defined benefit plan
Scheme background
The Company sponsors a funded final salary defined benefit pension plan (the ‘scheme’) for qualifying employees. The scheme 
was closed to future accrual in 2008 and all remaining employees who are still members of the scheme are now members of the 
Company’s defined contribution scheme.
The scheme is administered by a separate Board of Trustees which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustees are 
composed of representatives of both the employer and employees. The Trustees are required by law to act in the interest of all 
relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day-to-day administration  
of the benefits.
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out by 
a qualified actuary as at 6 April 2014 and showed a surplus. The Company is currently not required to pay contributions into 
the scheme.
Profile of the scheme
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for former employees and current pensioners. Broadly, 60 per cent of the 
liabilities are attributable to former employees and 40 per cent to current pensioners.
The scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted average time until benefit payments are made. For the scheme as a whole, 
the duration is approximately 20 years.
Investment strategy
The Company and Trustees have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes 
a policy to hold sufficient cash and bond assets to cover the anticipated benefit payments for at least the next five years so as to 
improve the cashflow matching of the scheme’s assets and liabilities.
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Defined benefit obligation (102,918) (106,201)
Fair value of plan assets 99,008 97,683
Net defined benefit liability (3,910) (8,518)
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 93 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Liability for defined benefit obligation
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening defined benefit obligation 106,201 95,597
Interest cost 3,751 4,142
Re-measurement (gains)/losses:
– changes in demographic assumptions 1,384 –
– changes in financial assumptions (2,519) 10,610
– experience (1,854) (882)
Benefits paid (4,045) (3,266)
102,918 106,201
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening fair value of plan assets 97,683 95,652
Net interest on plan assets 3,444 4,144
Re-measurement gains 1,926 1,153
Benefits paid (4,045) (3,266)
Closing fair value of plan assets 99,008 97,683
The costs (charged)/credited in the income statement are as follows:
Group
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest (expense)/income on net defined benefit liability (307) 2
The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows:
Group
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Re-measurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 4,915 (8,575)
Cumulative re-measurement gains and losses reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 
28 December 2003, the transition date to adopted IFRSs, for the Group and the Parent Company are net losses of £21,219,000 
(2014: net losses of £26,134,000).
The fair value of the plan assets is as follows:
Group and Parent Company
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Equities – UK 40,320 39,432
– overseas 32,381 30,878
Bonds – corporate 16,547 16,765
– government 3,405 3,512
Absolute return funds 6,125 –
Property – 2,592
Cash and cash equivalents/other 230 4,504
99,008 97,683 94 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21. Employee benefits continued
Defined benefit plan continued
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
Group and Parent Company
2015 2014
Discount rate 3.85% 3.6%
Future salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 1.7% – 2.45% 1.6% – 2.4%
Mortality assumption
Mortality in retirement is assumed to be in line with the S2PXA tables using CMI_2013 projections and a long-term rate of 1.25 per 
cent per annum. Under these assumptions, pensioners aged 65 now are expected to live for a further 22.5 years (2014: 22.1 years) if 
they are male and 24.4 years (2014: 24.4 years) if they are female. Members currently aged 45 are expected to live for a further 24.3 
years (2014: 23.4 years) from age 65 if they are male and for a further 26.4 years (2014: 25.9 years) from age 65 if they are female.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below:
Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate 0.1% increase Reduction of £2m
Inflation 0.1%decrease Reduction of £1.4m
Mortality rates 1 year increase Increase of £3.1m
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to latest trends in the scheme.
The Group expects to contribute £nil to its defined benefit plan in 2016.
Defined contribution plan
The Company also operates defined contribution schemes for other eligible employees. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group. The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group and amounted to 
£10,302,000 (2014: £9,901,000) in the year.
Share-based payments – Group and Parent Company
The Group has established a Savings Related Share Option Scheme, an Executive Share Option Scheme and a Performance  
Share Plan.
The terms and conditions of the grants for these schemes are as follows, whereby all options are settled by physical delivery  
of shares:
Date of grant Employees entitled
Exercise
price
Number of
shares granted Vesting conditions Contractual life
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 12
August 2006 Senior employees 407p 1,028,000 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 3-5% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 13
April 2008 Senior employees 457p 618,500 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 3-5% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 14
April 2009 Senior employees 356p 2,012,000 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 3-7% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 12
April 2011 All employees 453p 697,609 Three years’ service 3.5 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 15
August 2011 Senior employees 482p 707,000 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 3-7% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Performance Share 
Plan 3
March 2012 Senior executives £nil 248,922 Three years’ service, EPS annual 
compound growth of 3-8% over 
RPI over those three years and 
TSR position relative to an 
appropriate comparator group
10 years
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 95 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
Date of grant Employees entitled
Exercise
price
Number of
shares granted Vesting conditions Contractual life
Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 13
April 2012 All employees 468p 703,332 Three years’ service 3.5 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 16
March 2013 Senior employees 480p 693,000 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 3-7% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Transitional bonus  
share award
March 2013 Chief Executive £nil 60,000 Continuous service of two and 
three years
3 years
Performance Share 
Plan 4
March 2013 Senior executives £nil 305,592 Three years’ service, EPS annual 
compound growth of 3-8% over 
RPI over those three years and 
TSR position relative to an 
appropriate comparator group
10 years
Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 14
April 2013 All employees 414p 699,989 Three years’ service 3.5 years
Recruitment share 
award
February  
2014
Senior executive £nil 5,517 Continuous service of two years 2 years
Performance Share 
Plan 5
March 2014 Senior executives £nil 224,599 Three years’ service, EPS annual 
compound growth of 1-4% over 
RPI over those three years and 
average annual ROCE of 15.5-17% 
over those three years
10 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 17
April 2014 Senior employees 500p 598,225 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 1-4% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 15
April 2014 All employees 465p 696,344 Three years’ service 3.5 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 18
March 2015 Senior employees 1022p 298,045 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 1-7% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Executive Share Option 
Scheme 18a
May 2015 Senior employee 1056p 3,285 Three years’ service and EPS 
growth of 1-7% over RPI on 
average over those three years
10 years
Performance Share 
Plan 6
March 2015 Senior executives £nil 146,174 Three years’ service, EPS annual 
compound growth of 1-7% over 
RPI over those three years and 
average annual ROCE of 19-21.5% 
over those three years
10 years
Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 16
April 2015 All employees 818p 391,979 Three years’ service 3.5 years 96 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments – Group and Parent Company continued
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted 
average
exercise price
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average
exercise price
Number of 
options
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 369p 4,333,526 382p 5,155,631
Lapsed during the year 291p (257,187) 406p (1,151,544)
Exercised during the year 401p (882,263) 404p (1,264,132)
Granted during the year 749p 839,483 391p 1,593,571
Outstanding at the end of the year 446p 4,033,559 369p 4,333,526
Exercisable at the end of the year 365p 331,380 384p 640,812
The options outstanding at 2 January 2016 have an exercise price in the range of £nil to £10.56 and have a weighted average 
contractual life of 5.2 years. The options exercised during the year had a weighted average market value of £11.38 (2014: £5.33). 
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share options 
granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Black-Scholes model for all Savings 
Related Share Option Schemes and Executive Share Option Schemes and for Performance Share Plan options granted from 2014 
onwards. The Monte Carlo option pricing model was used for Performance Share Plans granted prior to 2014. The fair value per 
option granted and the assumptions used in these calculations are as follows:
2015 2014
Performance 
Share Plan 6
March 2015
Executive 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 18
March 2015
Executive 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 18a
March 2015
Savings 
Related 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 16
April 2015
Performance 
Share Plan 5
March 2014
Recruitment 
share award
February 
2014
Executive 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 17
April 2014
Savings 
Related 
Share 
Option 
Scheme 15
April 2014
Fair value at grant date 971p 140p 145p 230p 443p 499p 48p 68p
Share price 1035p 1022p 1056p 818p 498p 499p 500p 517p
Exercise price nil 1022p 1056p 1023p nil nil 500p 465p
Expected volatility 23.9% 23.9% 23.8% 23.9% 20.6% – 20.6% 20.7%
Option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 2 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 2.13% 2.15% 2.08% 2.15% 3.92% – 3.92% 3.92%
Risk-free rate 0.69% 0.64% 0.69% 0.76% 1.07% – 1.07% 1.07%
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly 
available information. The historical volatility is calculated using a weekly rolling share price for the three-year period immediately 
prior to the option grant date.
The costs charged to the income statement relating to share-based payments were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Share options granted in 2011 – (453)
Share options granted in 2012 91 (38)
Share options granted in 2013 1,573 524
Share options granted in 2014 1,321 496
Share options granted in 2015 677 –
Total expense recognised as employee costs 3,662 529
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 97 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
22. Provisions
Group and Parent Company
2015
Dilapidations
£’000
2015
Onerous leases
£’000
2015
Total
£’000
2014
Dilapidations
£’000
2014
Onerous leases
£’000
2014
Total
£’000
Balance at start of year 3,456 3,155 6,611 1,689 3,672 5,361
Additional provision in the year 1,422 581 2,003 3,330 1,232 4,562
Utilised in year (1,135) (1,059) (2,194) (1,249) (1,369) (2,618)
Provisions reversed during the year (400) (388) (788) (314) (380) (694)
Balance at end of year 3,343 2,289 5,632 3,456 3,155 6,611
Included in current liabilities 2,632 1,043 3,675 2,474 1,635 4,109
Included in non-current liabilities 711 1,246 1,957 982 1,520 2,502
3,343 2,289 5,632 3,456 3,155 6,611
Provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations and other commitments associated with properties. Included within the provision 
is £704,000 in respect of possible recourse on leases which have been conditionally assigned.
The provision for onerous leases is held in respect of leasehold properties for which the Group is liable to fulfil rent and other 
property commitments for shops from which either the Group no longer trades or for which future trading cash flows are 
projected to be insufficient to cover these costs. Amounts have been provided for the shortfall between projected cashflows and 
property costs up to the lease expiry date or other appropriate estimated date. The majority of this provision is expected to be 
utilised within four years such that the impact of discounting would not be material.
The Group provides for property dilapidations, where appropriate, based on estimated costs of the dilapidation repairs. 
£2,078,000 of the additional provision made in the prior year in respect of dilapidations was exceptional and relates to the 
dilapidation costs arising from the removal of in-store bakeries from shops as described in Note 4. £555,000 of this is expected  
to be utilised after more than one year. The remainder of the dilapidations provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
The provisions reversed or utilised during the year do not contain any items that were included as exceptional costs in the 
prior year.
23. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Ordinary shares
2015
Number
2014
Number
In issue and fully paid at start and end of year – ordinary shares of 2p 101,155,901 101,155,901
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per 
share at meetings of the Company. 
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve relates to the nominal value of issued share capital bought back by the Company and cancelled.
Own shares held
Deducted from retained earnings is £13,998,000 (2014: £6,750,000) in respect of own shares held by the Greggs Employee  
Benefit Trust. The Trust, which was established during 1988 to act as a repository of issued Company shares, holds 857,882 shares 
(2014: 805,034 shares) with a market value at 2 January 2016 of £11,273,000 (2014: £5,841,000) which have not vested 
unconditionally in employees. During the year the Trust purchased 940,687 shares for an aggregate consideration of £11,125,000 
and sold 887,839 shares for an aggregate consideration of £3,876,000.
The shares held by the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust can be purchased either by employees on the exercise of an option under 
the Greggs Executive Share Option Schemes, Greggs Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Greggs Performance Share Plan 
or by the trustees of the Greggs Employee Share Scheme. The trustees have elected to waive the dividends payable on 
these shares. 98 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
The following tables analyse dividends when paid and the year to which they relate:
2015
Per share
pence
2014
Per share
pence
2013 final dividend – 13.5p
2014 interim dividend – 6.0p
2014 final dividend 16.0p –
2015 interim dividend 7.4p –
2015 special dividend 20.0p –
43.4p 19.5p
The proposed final dividend in respect of 2015 amounts to 21.2 pence per share (£21,264,000). This proposed dividend is subject 
to approval at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these accounts.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013 final dividend – 13,530
2014 interim dividend – 6,040
2014 final dividend 16,090 –
2015 interim dividend 7,463 –
2015 special dividend 20,161 –
43,714 19,570
24. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015
Property 
£’000 
2015
Equipment 
£’000
2015
Total  
£’000
2014
Property
£’000 
2014
Equipment 
£’000
2014
Total  
£’000
Less than one year 36,136 1,928 38,064 36,887 2,031 38,918
Between one and five years 73,881 2,588 76,469 73,630 3,048 76,678
More than five years 13,443 – 13,443 12,210 247 12,457
123,460 4,516 127,976 122,727 5,326 128,053
The Group leases the majority of its shops under operating leases. The leases typically run for a period of ten years, with an option to 
renew the lease after that date. Lease payments are generally increased every five years to reflect market rentals. For a small number 
of the leases the rental is contingent on the level of turnover achieved in the relevant unit; these amounts are immaterial.
The inception of the shop leases has taken place over a long period of time and many date back a significant number of years. 
They are combined leases of land and buildings. It is not possible to obtain a reliable estimate of the split of the fair values of the 
lease interest between land and buildings at inception. Therefore, in determining lease classification the Group evaluated whether 
both parts are clearly an operating lease or a finance lease. Firstly, title does not pass for the land or buildings. Secondly, because 
the rent paid to the landlord for the buildings is increased to market rent at regular intervals, and the Group does not participate 
in the residual value of the land or buildings it is judged that substantially all the risks and rewards of the land and buildings are 
with the landlord. Based on these qualitative factors it is concluded that the leases are operating leases.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 99 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Accounts
25. Capital commitments
During the year ended 2 January 2016, the Group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets for £2,010,000 (2014: £6,454,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
26. Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 12) and its Directors and executive officers.
Trading transactions with subsidiaries – Group
There have been no transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries or associates during the year (2014: £nil).
Trading transactions with subsidiaries – Parent Company
Amounts owed to 
related parties
Amounts owed by 
related parties
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Dormant subsidiaries 7,807 7,807 – –
The Greggs Foundation is also a related party and during the year the Company made a donation to the Greggs Foundation 
of £700,000 (2014: £520,000).
Transactions with key management personnel
The Directors are the key management personnel of the Group. The Company has been notified of the following interests of the 
Directors who served during the year (including those of their connected persons but excluding interests in shares pursuant to 
unexercised share options) in the share capital of the Company as follows:
Ordinary shares of 2p 
(beneficial interest)
Ordinary shares of 2p 
(Trustee holding with no 
beneficial interest)
2015
(or date of 
cessation
if earlier)
2014 
(or date of 
appointment
if later)
2015
(or date of 
cessation
if earlier)
2014 
(or date of 
appointment
if later)
Roger Whiteside 75,998 72,253 – –
Richard Hutton 77,923 55,787 400,000 600,000
Raymond Reynolds 59,244 53,224 – –
Ian Durant (Non-Executive) 11,700 11,700 – –
Allison Kirkby (Non-Executive) 1,600 1,600 – –
Helena Ganczakowski (Non-Executive) 1,000 1,000 – –
Peter McPhillips (Non-Executive) 500 – – –
Sandra Turner (Non-Executive) 1,000 – – –
Details of Directors’ share options, emoluments, pension benefits and other non-cash benefits can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 49 to 65. Summary information on remuneration of key management personnel is included in 
Note 5. 
There have been no changes since 2 January 2016 in the Directors’ interests noted above. 
27. Events after the reporting period
As noted in the Chief Executive’s report on page 19 the Group has completed a detailed review of its manufacturing and 
distribution operations. As a result of this, subsequent to the year end, the Board has agreed a proposal to invest substantially  
to reshape its supply chain over the next five years, which includes the proposed closure of three bakery sites. Alongside an 
increased level of capital expenditure the proposals would lead to one-off costs of around £7 million in 2016, of which £6 million 
would be a cash cost. No liability for costs arising from this plan has been recognised in these accounts in accordance with IAS 10. 100 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Ten-year history
2006 2007 2008 2009
1
2010
1
2011
2012 
(as restated)
3
2013
2014 
(as restated)
1,4
2015
1
Turnover (£’m) 550.8 586.3 628.2 658.2 662.3 701.1 734.5 762.4 806.1 835.7
Total sales growth (%) 3.3% 6.4% 7.1% 4.8% 0.6% 5.8% 4.8% 3.8% 5.7% 3.7%
Company-managed shop 
like-for-like sales growth (%) 0.5% 5.3% 4.4% 0.8% 0.2% 1.4% (2.7%) (0.8%) 4.5% 4.7%
Earnings before interest 
and tax (EBIT) excluding 
exceptional items (£’m) 42.2 47.7 44.3 48.4 52.4 53.0 51.3 41.5 58.1 73.1
EBIT margin excluding 
exceptional items (%) 7.7% 8.1% 7.1% 7.4% 7.9% 7.6% 7.0% 5.4% 7.2% 8.7%
Exceptional (charge)/credit 
(£’m) (3.5) 2.2 4.3 – – 7.4 1.4 (8.1) (8.5) –
Profit on ordinary activities 
including exceptional items 
and before tax (£’m) 40.2 51.1 49.5 48.8 52.5 60.5 52.4 33.2 49.7 73.0
Diluted earnings per share 
excluding exceptional 
items (pence)
4
26.2 32.0 30.6 34.0 37.3 38.8 38.3 30.6 43.4 55.8
Dividend per share (pence)
2
11.6 14.0 14.9 16.6 18.2 19.3 19.5 19.5 22.0 48.6
5
Total shareholder return (%) (5%) 12% (22%) 29% 11% 13% (6%) 1% 70% 87.1%
Capital expenditure (£’m) 30.0 42.3 40.8 30.3 45.6 59.1 46.9 47.6 48.9 71.7
Return on capital employed 23.1% 29.6% 26.2% 25.9% 25.9% 24.4% 21.3% 16.4% 22.4% 26.8%
Number of shops in 
operation at year end 1,336 1,368 1,409 1,419 1,487 1,571 1,671 1,671 1,650 1,698
1. 2009 and 2014 were 53 week years, impacting on total sales growth for that year and the year immediately following.
2. All years prior to 2009 adjusted to take account of the ten for one share split which took place during 2009.
3. Restated following the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
4. Restated to include revenue in respect of franchise fit-out costs.
5. Includes a special dividend of 20p.  Financial calendar
Secretary
Jonathan D Jowett, LL.M. Solicitor
Registered office*
Fernwood House
Clayton Road
Jesmond
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE2 1TL
Registered number
502851
Bankers
National Westminster Bank Plc
149 High Street
Gosforth
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE3 1HA
Auditors
KPMG LLP
Quayside House
110 Quayside
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 3DX
Stockbrokers
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London
EC2M 2PA
Nplus1 Singer LLP
Time Central
32 Gallowgate
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 4SR
Solicitors
Muckle LLP
Time Central
32 Gallowgate
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 4BF
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
Bourne House
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
* with effect from 16 April 2016 the Registered Office will be:
Greggs House 
Quorum Business Park
Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE12 8BU
Secretary and advisers
Announcement of results and dividends
Half year Early August
Full year Early March
Dividends
Interim Mid-October
Final 20 May 2016
Annual report posted to shareholders Late March
Annual General Meeting 10 May 2016 greggs.co.uk
Greggs plc
Company Registered Number 502851
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
