 Gresham Technologies plc Annual Financial Report 2016
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 Group revenues
£17.2m
Clareti revenues
£7.5m
Statutory profit before tax
£2.2m
14.8
17.2 2016
2015
Group annualised recurring revenues
£9.1m
7.8
9.1 2016
2015
5.3
7.5 2016
2015
Clareti annualised recurring revenues
£2.9m
1.9
2.9 2016
2015
1.6
2.2 2016
2015
Adjusted EBITDA*
£3.8m
2.7
3.8 2016
2015
Gresham Technologies plc is a 
leading software and services 
company that specialises in 
providing real-time transaction 
control and enterprise data 
integrity solutions.
Gresham’s award-winning Clareti software platform 
has been designed to provide financial institutions with 
complete certainty in their data processing. Clareti is a 
highly flexible and fully scalable platform for assuring 
enterprise data integrity and is designed to address today’s 
most challenging financial control, internal risk management, 
data governance and regulatory compliance problems. 
Listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange 
(GHT.L) and headquartered in the City of London, Gresham’s 
customers include some of the world’s largest financial 
institutions, all of whom are served locally from offices 
located in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Find out more online
greshamtech.com Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
05 CEO’s statement
06 Business model
08 Market, technology and talent
10  St r a te g y
12  K e y p e r f o r m a n c e i n d i c a t o r s ( K PI s )
14 Principal risks and uncertainties
16 Operational review
19 Financial review
22 People and environmental
Corporate Governance
24 Board of Directors
26 Statement of corporate governance
29 Audit committee report
32 Nomination committee report
33 Remuneration report
41 Directors’ report
44 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
45 Independent auditor’s report
48 Consolidated income statement 
49  C o n s o l i d at e d s t at e m e nt 
of comprehensive income
50  Consolidated statement of financial position
51  C o n s o l i d at e d s t at e m e nt 
of changes in equity
52 Consolidated statement of cashflow
53 Notes to the financial statements 
83 Company balance sheet
84  Company statement of changes in equity
85  Notes to the Company financial statements
IBC  C or p or a t e i n f or m a t i on
Highlights
 • Continued strong Clareti customer progress in 2016, with 
eleven new customer wins in the UK, the US and Asia Pacific 
and continued expansion of use from the existing customer 
base through increased existing usage and new use cases. 
 • Completed the acquisition of C24 T echnologies Limited 
(C24), adding approximately thirty-five C24 customers 
to the Clareti client base. 
 • Group revenues up 16% to £17 .2m (2015: £14.8m), of 
which Clareti revenues were up 42% to £7 .5m (2015: 
£5.3m), including £0.3m from C24. Other revenues 
remained stable as planned.
 • Clareti software revenues up 38% to £4.7m (2015: £3.4m), 
of which Clareti software recurring revenues up 53% to 
£2.9m (2015: £1.9m). 
 • Clareti annualised recurring revenues up 92% to £4.6m as at 
31 December 2016 (2015: £2.4m), including £1.2m from C24. 
 • Adjusted EBITDA* up 41% to £3.8m (2015: £2.7m).
 • Statutory profit before tax as reported up 38% to £2.2m 
(2015: £1.6m).
 • Adjusted diluted earnings per share** up 38% to 4.67p 
(2015: 3.38p).
 • Cash £7 .2m and no debt at 31 December 2016 (2015: £4.7m 
and no debt), benefiting from strong customer cash 
collection in the last quarter of the year.
 • Continued investment in product innovation and global 
sales and marketing to build recurring revenues. 
 • Three new CTC customer wins achieved to date in 2017 . 
 • Management confident about the prospects for the Group.
*  Adjusted EBITDA refers to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
adjusted to add back share-based payment charges and exceptional items.
**  Adjusted to add back share-based payment charges, exceptional items and 
amortisation from acquired intangible assets.
Strategy
page 10
Key performance indicators
page 12
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 01 Data integrity
Our business is about solving data integrity issues 
for clients and we focus on the following areas:
  1
  R e gu l a t or y C om p l ia n c e 
Automating data verification and validation processes 
to solve data integrity issues and deliver accurate 
transaction reports to regulators.
2 
 Internal Risk Control 
Assuring data integrity in real time across multiple 
systems to manage and control operational and 
conduct risks.
  3
  F i n a n c ial C on t ro l 
Achieving full integrity and financial control of books 
and records to improve business processes and ensure 
consistent data systems.
4 
 T r a n s it i on M a n a g e m e n t 
Data integrity checks in business transition 
or transformation projects to ensure accuracy of 
transactional data at all stages.
Clareti solutions
Our Clareti software applications provide innovative 
industry and domain-specific solutions for real-time 
data management and include:
Our vision is to give clients the control and certainty they need in a world awash 
with real-time streaming data. We aim to establish Gresham as the market leader 
in real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity solutions, by delivering 
innovative software solutions to clients that assure the integrity of data systems 
and optimise data management activities.
Certified to latest PCI 
Data Security Standard
Ranked number 38, up five 
places from previous year
Best Regulatory Compliance 
Solution for Operations
RiskTech100
®
 Data Integrity 
and Control Category Winner
Clareti Transaction Control
High performance enterprise data control 
solution for data validation and real-time 
transaction matching and reconciliation.
Clareti 24 Integration Objects
Integration software to enable rapid adoption 
of financial message standards and transform 
complex data types.
Clareti Loan Control
Front-to-back loan servicing solution that 
enables effective and auditable management 
of simple and complex loan portfolios.
Clareti Accounts Receivable Management
Receivables management application with 
automated matching, reconciliation and 
allocation to reduce the order-to-cash cycle.
Clareti Data Accelerator 
Data management solution that enables 
holistic and real-time monitoring of quality 
across enterprise data assets.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 02
Strategic Report
At a glance Clareti services
Our Clareti services are provided by highly 
skilled professionals with deep industry knowledge 
and include:
Clareti-as-a-Service
Clareti solutions accessible via Gresham’s 
secure and scalable cloud platform. 
Managed Services
Ongoing technical and operational Clareti 
services delivered by subject-matter experts.
Consulting and implementation services 
and custom product development
Deployment and bespoke services provided 
by experienced Clareti professionals.
“Bank-grade” global 24/7 support
Effortless end-to-end support from our  
global offices with SLA guarantees. 
Clareti platform
Clareti was designed as a faster, more agile, more 
visionary data integrity platform that pushes the 
boundaries of innovation, while guaranteeing robust 
control and accountability. Clareti provides a control 
framework for accuracy, completeness and timeliness 
and enables rapid deployment of enterprise controls.
Key features include:
 • Flexible workflow 
and business rules
 • Onboarding accelerator
 • Matching engine
 • Cloud native
 • In-memory data grid
 • Matching learning
 • Embedded analytics
 • Integration adapters and APIs
 • White label
Clareti Adapters
Financial message standards leveraging 
Clareti 24 Integration Objects technology.
Clareti Analytics
Richer business insights and data analytics  
for executives and operational managers.
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
70+
customers
30
customers
19
customers
11
customers
3
customers
Clareti customers
Following the acquisition of C24, the Group now has 
over 70 Clareti customers across the portfolio.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 03
Strategic Report Ken Archer
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present this Annual Report which records a very 
successful year for the Group, meeting management’s expectations 
for both strategy execution and financial performance.
Overview
Gresham continued its good progress in executing on key strategic 
objectives, and I am delighted with our 16% top-line growth with total 
revenues for the Group rising to £17 .2m. Importantly, the additional 
revenues are driven by high margin recurring and new Clareti sales, 
which has resulted in a strong increase in annualised recurring revenues 
(17% over 2015) and associated growth in underlying profitability 
(adjusted EBITDA up 41% over 2015).
As in 2015, the Group’s Clareti sales growth has been driven by our clients’ 
focus on internal risk management and responding to regulatory demands 
over their financial transaction flows. The volumes and complexity of these 
transactions give rise to increasing operating costs and risk exposure to 
market participants. Clareti offers clients a strategic platform to address 
these challenges. Financial transactions and their attendant interactions, 
both within client organisations and with their counterparties, are evident 
in all financial institutions, and Gresham has been successful in addressing 
these needs in several new market segments.
The Group has made good progress in expanding the adoption of Clareti 
solutions globally. I was particularly pleased with the CTC win that we 
announced with the Tier 1 US bank in December 2016. The US market 
has the potential for much higher growth, and the Board continues to 
support the ongoing investments in direct sales resources, in addition 
to forming strategic alliances to further expand distribution capacity.
The non-Clareti parts of the business once again provided a valuable 
contribution to the Group’s results, with the partner solutions and legacy 
software revenues that are in long-term decline showing resilience, 
and a solid performance from our Australian contracting business.
Ongoing investments
The Board continues to believe there is a very significant market 
opportunity for data integrity and control solutions, and that ongoing 
investment in key strategic areas is essential. Accordingly, the Company 
is building additional Clareti solutions to address specific industry segment 
problems, including a data management application and enhanced 
analytics capabilities. These are expected to generate revenue growth 
from both new and existing clients.
In addition, the Board is actively pursuing growth through 
carefully selected acquisitions and strategic partnerships. In 
October 2016, we announced the acquisition of C24 Technologies, 
a company that has developed a series of plug-in interfaces to 
connect to industry-standard financial messaging networks, thereby 
expanding the market opportunity for the Group’s Clareti solutions. 
The acquisition resulted in a doubling of Gresham’s customer base and 
further increases in recurring revenue. In addition, we have partnered 
with loan servicing specialists Mount Street Loan Solutions to build 
Clareti Loan Control (CLC), a cloud-based loan administration system. 
These strategic investments will enable us to grow our existing customer 
base and attract new customers from numerous market segments.
Board changes
In September 2016, Imogen Joss replaced Max Royde as Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. Imogen has worked within 
the financial sector for over 20 years and brings extensive experience 
in financial sales and marketing. Imogen’s executive career includes 
leadership roles in a range of high profile financial services organisations 
including S&P Global, Lloyds Bank, Reuters Plc and FTSE Group. 
I would like to thank Max for his significant contribution to the 
Board’s efforts over the past seven years.
Shareholder value
The Board recognises and appreciates shareholders’ long-standing 
and ongoing commitment to Gresham. Our share price has experienced 
a degree of volatility in the year which is common for the small cap 
market, but it is pleasing to note that the overall upward trend persists. 
Earnings per share increased to 4.67 pence on an adjusted and 
diluted basis (2015: 3.38 pence).
As reported last year, the Board is committed to commencing 
a progressive dividend as soon as circumstances are considered to 
be appropriate, having regard to the need for ongoing investments 
to support long-term growth. The Board’s firm intention remains 
to declare a maiden dividend in respect of the financial year 2017 .
The Gresham organisation and its employees are fully aligned to growing 
profitable revenue from Clareti sales globally. I remain confident that our 
investments in sales, marketing and client success provide the platform 
to deliver shareholder value from our ongoing investments.
In summary
With our continued investment in the Clareti portfolio and sales and 
marketing expansion, I anticipate further improvement in our market 
position as we respond to the growing demand for transparency 
and integrity over risk and financial data processing.
It has been a very successful year for the Group, which of course is made 
up of a great many team and individual successes. This is a testament 
to the hard work, expertise and professionalism of the Gresham team. 
I would like to thank the management and staff for their continued support 
and resolve to achieve success in our pursuit of market leadership in 
real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s statement Ian Manocha
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report a further year of very positive progress 
aligned with the strategic plan agreed with the Board. In 2016, we 
delivered solid Clareti software revenue growth driven by high quality 
new customer wins and excellent retention and growth from existing 
customers. Our legacy software portfolio remained stable, and our 
professional services business grew profitably adding value to the core 
licence relationships. We stepped up our investment in both business 
development and product development, and at the same time improved 
gross margins and earnings.
This was a confident performance from a highly motivated, talented 
and well-aligned team. Alongside the new sales wins our customer 
satisfaction, referenceability and retention was sustained at excellent 
levels. During the year, we also refreshed the Company name and brand, 
consolidated our R&D operations at our new Innovation Labs in Bristol, 
developed a 24/7 support infrastructure for cloud and global clients, 
and further strengthened the organisation and the senior team to deliver 
sustainable success.
Objectives and strategy 
Our goal is to be recognised as a leading global provider of enterprise 
financial technology and deliver sustained profitable growth for the 
Group and long-term value for shareholders.
The Group’s ongoing investment in sales and product development, 
combined with our deep domain experience in financial markets and 
strong customer-centric culture, means we are well positioned at a time 
when the pressure on market participants to be in complete control of 
their business has never been greater. We want to be the first company 
organisations turn to when they need to be in control of their data and 
their data-driven processes.
CTC, our flagship offering, is maturing from a niche challenger in 
the matching and reconciliations market into a mainstream offering 
with broad appeal across many financial services segments. We aim to 
establish the Clareti platform within the financial industry as a “de facto” 
standard technology for firms with complex data processing challenges 
who need to improve integrity and evidence control. Our award in 2016 
from Chartis, naming us as “category winner for data integrity and control 
in financial services” , confirmed the market potential and the completeness 
of our offering.
In 2017 , we will continue to invest in innovative new data integrity and 
control products such as Clareti Loan Control and Clareti Data Accelerator 
to broaden the commercial opportunity for our core platform. We will also 
develop chargeable upgrades to the platform, such as Clareti Adapters 
(based on C24 technology) and Clareti Analytics, to drive growth in 
our existing accounts. Our approach to new product development is to 
leverage our core technology assets to develop IP-rich applications that 
address repeatable industry problems that are not well served by 
established players.
Acquisitions
During 2016, the Group made its first acquisition since setting out 
on the Clareti-led strategy in 2010. The C24 Technologies business 
has now been fully integrated and we are pleased with the technology 
assets, the loyal client base, and the talent we have acquired. Since 
the acquisition, we have signed three new standalone Clareti 24 
Integration Objects clients, and have already enhanced the software 
to interface directly with our Clareti platform and thereby facilitate 
cross-selling into the CTC customer base as Clareti Adapters. The C24 
team have settled in well and are now working to bring Clareti Data 
Accelerator to market.
The experience gained from the acquisition has been valuable 
and during 2017 the Group will look for further accretive acquisitions 
that bring complementary technology, build our recurring licence 
revenues, and enable us to grow faster.
Outlook and opportunity
In 2017 , Clareti solutions are expected to deliver more than half of all 
Group revenues. We expect Clareti sales success to come largely from 
direct CTC sales in the UK, Europe and North America where there is 
strong demand for newer more agile technologies, with Clareti-as-a-Service 
providing incremental hosting revenues in an increasing proportion of 
cases. We are tracking US banking regulatory developments carefully and 
remain confident in our strategy to invest in the North American market. 
We should also see steady revenue growth from the existing Clareti 
base including our bank partners who white label our technology, 
and we will build our network of OEM partners and industry alliances 
to drive future sales growth at lower acquisition costs. Mount Street, 
our debt servicing partner, are now live on Clareti Loan Control (CLC) 
and growing their business, which in time will lead to an increasing 
financial contribution from our joint venture. 
We will continue to efficiently manage our legacy software revenues, 
including EDT, VME, and other OEM solutions, as they gradually run off 
in the medium to long term. One of our lower margin OEM offerings is 
being retired over the next two years and as a result we have planned 
for our total legacy software revenues to decline in 2017 . Conversely, 
our non-core, low margin services contracting business is expected 
to grow revenues during the year.
We are confident our strategy is on track and we have an ambitious 
plan to address a growing market. Furthermore, we are excited about 
the opportunity to create a global leader in enterprise data integrity 
and certain about our ability to deliver sustainable long-term profitable 
growth for our shareholders.
Thank you for your ongoing support.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 05
Strategic Report
CEO’s statement Introduction
Financial institutions are subject to increasingly rigorous and 
complex data control and processing requirements. This has 
created a global market for flexible and scalable technology that 
can be used to address specific problems in the financial services 
sector, such as financial control, internal risk management, data 
governance and regulatory compliance. 
Platform
Gresham’s Clareti platform is a purpose-built, highly flexible 
and fully scalable platform for enterprise data integrity and control 
that is designed to solve such industry problems. It allows financial 
institutions to gain real-time control and certainty with respect to 
their data requirements. The flexibility and scalability of Clareti 
also enables financial institutions to achieve long-term 
operational efficiencies. These characteristics give Clareti a 
competitive advantage over legacy vendors, whose systems are 
typically batch-based and incapable of adapting to today’s range 
of data processing requirements without time-consuming and 
costly implementations. 
Gresham invests significantly in product development, which is delivered 
from our Innovation Labs in Bristol. We adopt an agile development 
strategy and we operate a continuous programme of enhancements. 
This differentiates Clareti from legacy vendor systems, serves to promote 
ongoing customer success and maintains our competitive advantage. 
Wherever possible, new applications are developed in partnership with 
fee paying early adopters, and our Innovation Labs are designed precisely 
for such collaboration. We also develop chargeable upgrades to the 
platform, such as Clareti Adapters (based on C24 technology) and 
Clareti Analytics, to drive growth in existing accounts.
Solutions portfolio
Owning and enhancing a portfolio of Clareti applications enables us to be 
successful in our chosen markets and deliver profitable growth 
organically. The Clareti portfolio currently includes:
 • Clareti Transaction Control: High performance enterprise 
data control solution for data validation and real-time transaction 
matching and reconciliation.
 • Clareti Accounts Receivable Management: Receivables 
management application with automated matching, reconciliation 
and allocation to reduce the order-to-cash cycle.
 • Clareti 24 Integration Objects: Integration software to enable 
rapid adoption of financial message standards and transform 
complex data types.
 • Clareti Loan Control: Front-to-back loan servicing solution that 
enables effective and auditable management of simple and 
complex loan portfolios.
 • Clareti Data Accelerator: Data management solution that enables 
holistic and real-time monitoring of quality across enterprise data assets.
In addition to our model for organic growth, we actively monitor 
opportunities to supplement the Clareti portfolio to deliver accelerated 
growth through acquisitions, strategic partnerships and other corporate 
transactions of this nature. Our primary focus for inorganic growth is to 
acquire or partner with organisations who have modern and compatible 
technology solutions that are additive to our Clareti offering and that will 
deliver earnings enhancing revenues for the Group.
Our business model is to earn high margin, recurring revenues by providing innovative 
software solutions to financial institutions in the field of data integrity and control. 
Innovative software solutions
We saw the clear potential for CTC to introduce 
efficiencies into our operational environment 
and the ability for CTC to accelerate us towards 
our goal of a scalable operating model that 
leverages cutting-edge technology to 
eliminate dependence on manual processes. 
The team was attentive, responsive, informed 
and supportive throughout the entire process. 
They leveraged their experience to help us 
thoughtfully frame our thinking as we 
explored our current state processes to 
determine how best to implement the tool 
in our operational environment.
US Tier 1 bank
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 06
Strategic Report
Business model Deployment
Our deployment focus is on achieving customer success early 
and effectively. We proactively manage deployment projects through 
our global professional services organisation, which is typically charged 
on a time and materials basis, and we provide 24/7 support from our 
global hubs using a centralised service infrastructure. Our global 
operational model allows us to make optimal use of available consultant 
resource, and ensures customers can benefit from the deep industry 
expertise and technical skills that we have across the Group. 
As well as the traditional on-premise deployment option, Gresham offers 
customers a hosted deployment solution on Gresham’s Clareti-as-a-Service 
cloud platform. This is a further differentiator to competitor products, 
which in the main can only be deployed through one or the other route. 
Cloud-based deployments generate higher recurring revenues for 
Gresham due to the enhanced value proposition for the customer.
Business platform
Organisationally, we have streamlined our business over recent 
years and now operate a global business platform and robust business 
processes to support and sustain rapid organic and inorganic growth. 
All our global business functions are managed centrally from the UK, 
including sales and marketing, customer support and professional 
services, with corporate and business support from global IT systems 
and administrative functions such as finance, legal and HR.
Execution
Our execution of the business model is generating profitable growth 
and building long-term shareholder value in line with Group strategy. 
The model is designed such that successful execution of the business 
model will generate cash from the profitable growth, which in turn will 
enable us to return value to shareholders through dividends. We expect 
to continue with the existing business model for the foreseeable future.
Gresham has led the way in Enterprise Data 
Integrity and Control over the last year with 
the Clareti platform scoring particularly well 
for governance, automation and audit in 
the RiskTech100
®
.  
Gresham are well placed as award winner 
of the inaugural data integrity category with 
high customer satisfaction, a strong growth 
strategy, and high enterprise readiness.
Peyman Mestchian, 
Managing Partner, Chartis Research
Charging model
Gresham’s primary charging model is to licence Clareti 
applications on a subscription basis, combining licensing and 
support and maintenance. This model generates higher levels 
of recurring revenue for the Group, which enhances long-term 
profitable growth and provides a platform for sound investment 
decisions. Software licences are typically ring-fenced by a scope 
of use that defines the licensed use case and by quantitative 
limitations, such as numbers of users and transaction volumes. This 
ensures that the charges are appropriately aligned to the value 
being received by the customer, and provides opportunity for 
additional fees for higher usage or new use cases. 
Sales channels
Our global team of sales professionals sells directly to 
customers in our chosen geographies, supported by a small 
global marketing team based in the UK. We also make use 
of indirect sales channels through our bank and technology 
partners, which gives us indirect access to a larger addressable 
market and a further route to new Clareti sales. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 07
Strategic Report Market
The aftermath of the global financial crisis continues to drive the 
prevailing regulatory landscape. Part of this has been a worldwide 
regulatory trend that places significantly greater governance and 
control requirements on financial institutions as regards the accuracy 
and auditability of data. This, and the introduction of greater reporting 
obligations, together provide compelling drivers for financial institutions to 
invest in modern and flexible technology systems, such as Clareti, to ensure 
that both current and future regulatory requirements can be satisfied. 
The newly appointed US administration’s stated policy on banking 
de-regulation will no doubt introduce uncertainty as details emerge, 
as will Brexit negotiations, once they are engaged, and we are tracking 
developments carefully. However, irrespective of regulatory requirements 
and policy changes, our experience is that there is an underlying operational 
requirement for sophisticated data management technology, and we 
do not expect to suffer any material impact from these factors for the 
foreseeable future. 
In the UK, Europe and North America, we continue to see strong 
demand for new, more agile technologies, and we expect ongoing 
success in these regions. In the very substantial US market, we believe 
that long-term success will ultimately come from winning Tier 1 bank 
customers, the large broker-dealers, who have greater scale and a 
need for our technology across a broader variety of use cases. While 
these institutions are difficult to win, the returns can be significant. 
In Asia Pacific, we continue to see opportunity in the key financial hubs 
in Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia, but our current resources in 
this region are limited. Consequently, we primarily target cross-sell 
and upsell opportunities with our existing major clients. In addition, 
we now have a business development partner in Japan as a result of the 
C24 acquisition, who we are upskilling to target the Tokyo market with 
Clareti Transaction Control as well as Clareti 24 Integration Objects.  
Our experience and research confirmed that 
there was nothing available on the market 
that would enable us to make a step change 
in service quality and process productivity. 
Gresham shared our vision for 
technology-enabled transformation of 
the industry and together we have delivered 
a solution that will enable us to manage 
a variety of loans, from single asset deals 
to large complex transactions, as well as 
entire performing and non-performing 
loan portfolios. 
This partnership is a differentiator for 
Mount Street in the competitive third 
party servicing market.
Ravi Joseph 
CEO, Mount Street
Innovation Labs
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 08
Strategic Report
Market, technology and talent Technology innovation
Delivering innovative technology and services is fundamental to our 
offering. Under the leadership of Neil Vernon, Gresham’s Chief Technology 
Officer , we foster a culture of innovation across all development activities, 
and we actively look for new opportunities to deliver optimal and 
differentiating technology experiences for our users. This culture 
is epitomised at our flagship Innovation Labs in Bristol.
Our Clareti platform, built from the ground up on a robust, modern 
architecture, has benefited from five years of investment and ongoing 
customer feedback, and is now functionally rich, very stable and highly 
scalable. We are confident in our ability to respond quickly to changing 
market requirements, competitive pressures and new opportunities. 
The acquisition of C24 technology assets has enhanced the capability 
of the platform to ingest financial messages and we now have a data 
loading, matching, enrichment and exception handling platform that is 
truly exceptional in terms of the ability to make sense of vast volumes of 
fast moving and complex data flows typically found in financial markets. 
Clareti-as-a-Service (CaaS), our cloud and managed services platform, 
also benefits from ongoing investment and is maturing rapidly as a 
vehicle for customers to implement rapidly and reduce their total cost 
of ownership. All our offerings can be accessed on-premise, in the 
cloud, or as a complete managed service.
The Clareti portfolio has expanded and now includes four separately 
licensable software solutions, comprising Clareti Transaction Control, 
Clareti ARM, Clareti Loan Control and Clareti 24 Integration Objects, all 
of which are developed from an innovation and market-driven agenda. 
Further innovative Clareti solutions are planned for 2017 , including 
Clareti Data Accelerator (CDA), as well as chargeable platform 
enhancements comprising Clareti Adapters and Clareti Analytics, which 
are specifically designed to enhance Gresham’s addressable market for 
enterprise data management solutions within financial services. 
Talent
We recognise that retaining and nurturing talent is crucial to our 
long-term objective of becoming one of the world’s leading providers 
of financial technology solutions. Our aim is to be a highly valued and 
responsible employer across the Group. We implement Group-wide 
strategies designed to retain and motivate staff on an ongoing basis 
that are appropriate to the local geographic and industry economic 
climate. These strategies include the provision of competitive terms 
and conditions, a defined contribution pension scheme, consideration 
of family and personal needs, training and career development 
coaching, alongside a range of other flexible benefits designed to 
reflect the Group’s culture and values. 
Our hiring model is based on creating an agile, highly motivated 
and collaborative international workforce. Our strength comes from 
collaboration between seasoned professionals with deep client 
industry experience and some of the brightest young technology 
talent on the market. We operate a graduate intake and apprenticeship 
programme to bring promising new colleagues into the business, and 
we also hire more experienced staff with exceptional skills sets where 
required to support our strategic objectives. We also “hire for attitude” , 
placing great importance on our values, effective team working, and 
on our focus on customer success.
We believe that it is very important to achieve high levels of trust 
between individuals within the Group as this promotes high levels 
of staff engagement and helps to ensure that the working environment 
is pleasant, healthy and sustainable. As part of this, the Group engages 
with the Great Place to Work
®
 programme as a mechanism for measuring, 
on an annual basis, the Group’s performance as an employer, as perceived 
by staff. This has proved to be a very useful tool in gathering collective 
feedback and guiding investment decisions, and several new initiatives 
have been implemented as a result of this.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 09
Strategic Report Route to long-term success
Our strategic plan is designed to drive profitable growth and create long-term 
shareholder value. Originally built around developing and selling our flagship 
solution, Clareti Transaction Control (CTC), the strategic plan has now evolved 
to reflect our mission of delivering a wider set of innovative Clareti software 
solutions to clients that assure the integrity of data systems and optimise 
data management activities. 
Clareti software continues to 
generate gross margins in excess 
of 90%. Total Clareti revenues grew 
by 42% in 2016, and Clareti annualised 
recurring revenues at the year end were 
up 92%. All but two of the new Clareti 
licence sales in the year were term or 
subscription based, and Gresham won 
two cloud-based Clareti contracts in 
the year.
Key achievements in 2016
We enhanced our global business platform 
with the appointment of David Eagan as 
Global Director, Customer Success and 
Service Delivery. Group growth was led 
by 42% Clareti growth. The considered 
acquisition of C24 Technologies 
complements the Clareti portfolio and 
adds over £1m of recurring revenue.  
Key achievements in 2016
Our marketing activities have been 
adjusted to target enterprise data 
integrity requirements. We moved up 
to 38th place in the Global RiskTech 100
®
 
and, for the first time, we were awarded 
best Data Integrity and Control solution 
by independent researcher Chartis. 
Key achievements in 2016
We will continue to promote licensing 
models that deliver higher levels of 
recurring revenue, appropriately 
balanced against the need to achieve 
short-term financial objectives. We will 
continue to invest in cloud technology 
to create new, value-added solutions 
for clients.
Key priorities for 2017
We will invest appropriately in 
technology to support global growth 
and optimise business efficiencies. 
We will focus on effective Clareti 
sales execution and ensure sales 
targets remain aligned to Group KPIs. 
We will actively pursue appropriate 
acquisition opportunities and 
strategic investments for growth. 
Key priorities for 2017
We want to improve on our position in 
the Global RiskTech 100
®
 register. We aim 
to achieve further third party attestations 
to Gresham’s position as a leading 
provider of enterprise data integrity 
solutions. We will focus marketing 
activities on concrete requirements 
for enterprise data integrity. 
Key priorities for 2017
Build a high margin, 
recurring revenue stream 
based on term licence 
sales, subscriptions and 
cloud services.
Create a valuable, 
global, enterprise financial 
technology business 
through Clareti-led 
growth and carefully 
selected acquisitions.
Establish Clareti as 
the enterprise data 
integrity platform 
“category leader” .
3 2 1
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 10
Strategic Report
Strategy We relocated product development to 
new offices in Bristol city centre, giving 
greater access to talent and serving as a 
flagship venue for client events. We added 
a Clareti sales hub in Luxembourg to drive 
European sales, and the acquisition of 
C24 Technologies provides a route to 
sales in Japan. Non-Clareti parts of the 
business are being managed optimally. 
Key achievements in 2016
We developed the Clareti portfolio 
to add further business applications 
and address new markets. We brought 
Clareti Loan Control to market and also 
added Clareti 24 Integration Objects 
to the portfolio in the year. We focussed 
product marketing on “control” issues.
Key achievements in 2016
Appropriate investment in sales 
capacity is to continue, particularly 
in the US where there is significant 
potential for growth. We will focus 
our product development activities 
on enhancements and new Clareti 
applications designed to address data 
integrity issues. We will build delivery 
capacity in line with global sales. 
Key priorities for 2017
We intend to launch Clareti Data 
Accelerator as a solution to monitor and 
improve the quality of a firm’s enterprise 
data assets in real time. We also plan 
to launch Clareti Analytics to drive 
incremental value for our installed base 
and provide upsell opportunities. 
Key priorities for 2017
Focus our product 
investment and 
sales efforts on 
Clareti solutions.
Leverage Clareti and 
Clareti-as-a-Service 
platform to bring new 
“control” applications 
to market.
Retain strategic  
non-Clareti 
revenues to support  
Clareti-led growth.
6 5 4
The non-Clareti parts of our business are 
being managed efficiently and performed 
in line with our plans, contributing £9.7m 
to Group revenues in 2016 (2015: £9.5m). 
Cash generated has been reinvested in 
the Clareti business.
Key achievements in 2016
We will continue to operate the non-Clareti 
businesses optimally for as long as we 
perceive them to deliver strategic value. 
Our operational focus will remain on 
securing renewals and managing 
attrition rates through efficient contract 
management and customer service.
Key priorities for 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 11
Strategic Report Measures the overall performance 
of the Clareti business, which is 
central to the Group’s growth 
strategy. This includes £0.3m from 
C24 Technologies following the 
acquisition in October 2016.
Measures overall Group 
performance and growth in 
the year. This comprises £7 .5m 
of Clareti revenues, including 
£0.3m from C24 Technologies, 
and £9.7m of Other revenues 
(up £0.2m).
The minimum Clareti revenue 
of a recurring nature that 
Gresham expects to book 
in 2017 from contracts in 
force as at 31 December 2016. 
This highlights Gresham’s 
success in securing new 
recurring revenues and includes 
£1.2m from C24 Technologies.
The minimum revenue of 
a recurring nature that the 
Group expects to book in 2017 
from contracts in force as at 
31 December 2016. This comprises 
£4.6m of Clareti recurring 
revenue and £6.3m of Other 
recurring revenue (down 3%).
Description
Link to strategy
Clareti revenue Group
Clareti revenue
£7.5m
+42%
Group revenue
£17.2m
+16%
Clareti annualised 
recurring revenue 
£4.6m
+92%
Group annualised  
recurring revenue
£10.9m
+22%
5.3 14.8 2.4 7.8
7.5 17.2 4.6 10.9 2016 2016 2016 2016
2015 2015 2015 2015
The following key performance indicators (KPIs) have been selected as the most 
appropriate measures of strategy execution for the Group.
Measuring our progress
5 6 6 6 6 2 2 2 1 2 4 5 1 3 4 1 3 4 1 3 4 5 3 5
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 12
Strategic Report
Key performance indicators (KPIs) Earnings-based metric that 
provides a measure of profitable 
growth. This includes £0.2m from 
C24 Technologies. Adjustments 
are made for share-based 
payment charges and 
exceptional items.
Earnings per share on a 
diluted and adjusted basis, 
which provides a consistent 
long-term measure of relative 
year on year performance.
In addition to adjusted EBITDA, 
this earnings-based KPI provides 
a further measure of our 
performance in delivering 
profitable growth in the year 
at a statutory reporting level. 
Description
Link to strategy
Cash Earnings
Adjusted EBITDA
£3.8m
+41%
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
4.67p
+38%
Profit before tax
£2.2m
+38%
2.7 3.38 1.6
3.8 4.67 2.2 2016 2016 2016
2015 2015 2015
6 6 6 6
This measures the Group’s 
aggregate net cash balance 
as at 31 December 2016, after 
taking any Group debt into 
account (none).
Net cash
£7.2m
+53%
4.7
7.2 2016
2015
1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5
Non-financial performance indicators
In addition, the Group monitors certain non-financial performance indicators at an operational level, including the number of new Clareti 
sales in the year, customer renewals, average debtor days, consultant utilisation, Net Promoter Scores and the Great Place to Work
®
 annual 
trust index score. However, none of these are currently considered to be individually appropriate as a measure of overall strategy execution 
success. All KPIs are reviewed annually and this includes consideration of appropriate non-financial KPIs. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 13
Strategic Report Failure to win new Clareti business in line with plan
Description Change in risk Mitigation
Central to our strategic growth plan is 
winning new Clareti business. Failure to do 
so would directly impact our achievement 
of overall objectives or lengthen the period 
taken to achieve them. Specifically, failure to 
win new Clareti contracts early enough in the 
year would jeopardise our ability to deliver 
the implementations and recognise the 
associated revenues in the year.
I
We continue to see strong market demand 
for Clareti solutions, but the risks associated 
with timing, type, mix and quantum of 
revenues remain unchanged as these 
factors are largely driven by the customers’ 
requirements and budgeting processes. 
Sales cycles are often very lengthy, particularly 
the larger deals, and are often delayed or 
restructured late in the process.
We have strengthened our Clareti sales and 
marketing operations in order to build greater 
pipeline visibility and grow Clareti revenues 
faster. We are concentrating our new sales 
investments in the US, where we see the 
greatest opportunity for new Clareti business 
and rapid growth. We continue to expand 
the Clareti offering to extend market reach. 
Investment decisions are held against immediate 
or short-term need wherever possible. 
Misdirected product, operational or strategic investments
Description Change in risk Mitigation
We are investing in product development 
and operational requirements to support 
Clareti-led growth. Strategic investments 
such as acquisitions present opportunity 
for accelerated growth. Failing to achieve 
meaningful returns on investments would 
hinder the Group’s strategic growth plan 
and potentially jeopardise the Group’s 
position in the market and its prospects.
L
Building out a portfolio of Clareti products 
increases the risk of product development 
activities, sales execution and market 
demand becoming misaligned. In addition, 
pursuing acquisitions and other strategic 
investments for inorganic growth are 
inherently speculative to a greater or 
lesser extent, and can be costly and 
time-consuming for management. 
The management team has been 
strengthened and centralised further, 
which provides greater control and efficiency 
to operations. Strong communication lines 
between the relevant stakeholders are 
ensured through regular formal meetings 
and monthly reporting. The Board reviews 
and challenges all strategic investments. 
Product and service delivery failures
Description Change in risk Mitigation
Issues or failures with our software products 
or services could lead to failed 
implementations, project delays, cost 
overruns, data loss, security issues, customer 
dissatisfaction, early termination, service 
level breaches and contractual claims, all of 
which could adversely impact the Group’s 
revenues, earnings and reputation.
K
The risks of servicing financial institutions 
remain substantial but generally stable, and 
Gresham has not suffered any material 
product or service failures in 2016. Risks are 
generally greater with new clients, but 
formal RFP processes are routinely carried 
out by financial institutions, which provides 
clarity as to requirements and expectations. 
Gresham mitigates inherent product 
and service risks through robust quality 
assurance and project governance 
processes. Product releases are unit tested 
prior to delivery, and subjected to further 
customer testing prior to first production 
use. Customer testing and acceptance 
sign-offs are required prior to go-live. 
There are a number of risk factors that could adversely affect the Group’s 
execution of its strategic plan and, more generally , the Group’s operations, 
business model, financial results, future performance, solvency, or the 
value or liquidity of its equities. The Board is committed to addressing 
these risks by implementing systems for effective risk management and 
internal control. A report on the Board’s review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal control systems can be 
found in the audit committee’s report on pages 30 and 31.
The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that could threaten Gresham’s business, business 
model, strategies, financial results, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity. The items listed in the table below represent the known principal 
risks and uncertainties, but the table does not list all known or potential 
risks and uncertainties exhaustively. Where possible, mitigation steps 
are taken to safeguard against materialised risks.
Our aim is to recognise and address the key risks and uncertainties facing Gresham 
at all levels of our business.
Risk management
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 14
Strategic Report
Principal risks and uncertainties Viability statement
The Directors confirm that they have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three-year period commencing 1 January 2017 and that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for that period. 
The Directors have selected a period of three years as they consider this to be a reasonable and appropriate duration on which to make the assessment, based on the fact that the 
Group operates rolling financial projections which extend for the current and two subsequent financial years, and the Directors’ evaluation of the forward-looking order book for 
Clareti revenues with Clareti contracts typically being signed for three-year minimum contract terms, balanced against the likely attrition rate of non-Clareti revenues. 
In making this statement, the Directors have considered the Group’s current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties described above on 
the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, taking account of severe but reasonable scenarios and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions, 
and have performed stress test analysis based on likely outcomes. 
Accelerated decline in non-Clareti revenues
Description Change in risk Mitigation
Non-Clareti revenues provide a strong 
contribution to revenues, earnings, and 
cashflow, and are key to short-term financial 
success and ongoing investments in Clareti. 
We are anticipating a decline in non-Clareti 
revenues, but an accelerated decline could 
have an immediate and significant impact on 
financial KPIs. 
I
Declining revenues from non-Clareti solutions 
continue to offset Clareti growth. The long-term 
decline of non-Clareti revenues is expected 
to continue to eventual run-off, and the rate 
of decline is determined by outside factors. 
The decline of non-Clareti revenues is gradually 
becoming less material to Group performance 
given the growth in Clareti revenues. 
Mitigation against short-term impact is 
provided through the natural spread of 
non-Clareti products, geographies and 
customers. Our forecasts prudently allow 
for attrition in non-Clareti revenues based 
on historical performance and customer 
plans, where known. 
Economic, international trade and market conditions
Description Change in risk Mitigation
The Group is generally exposed to economic, 
trade and market risk factors, such as global 
or localised economic downturn, changing 
international trade relationships, foreign 
exchange fluctuations, consolidation or 
insolvency of existing or prospective customers 
or competitor products, all of which could 
significantly threaten Gresham’s performance 
and prospects. 
L
The result of the EU referendum and 
the US presidential election in 2016 have 
introduced uncertainty regarding future 
trading arrangements between the UK and 
both Europe and the USA respectively. 
As a result, Gresham may experience 
volatile market conditions in those 
geographies. Other risks in this category 
are generally considered to be stable.
Gresham is monitoring political 
developments and will seek to mitigate 
emerging risks where possible. Gresham 
high margin recurring revenues provide a 
level of protection against volatile economic 
or market conditions. Gresham’s policy of 
ongoing product development helps Gresham 
to maintain its competitive advantage.
People risks
Description Change in risk Mitigation
A loss or material issue with key members of 
staff could cause material disruption and skills 
shortage. Competitor poaching could result in 
intellectual property leakage. Staff misconduct, 
negligence or fraud could cause Gresham 
significant reputational damage and potential 
financial loss. 
I
People risks are currently considered 
to be stable, but liable to increase as the 
Group expands into new regions with more 
limited or distant managerial supervision. 
Rapid growth presents opportunities for 
personal development for key staff and 
engages the workforce generally. 
The Group aims to provide a fulfilling and 
rewarding working environment, with strong 
culture and ethics. Key staff are identified 
through talent assessments and retention 
plans are implemented. Security and access 
control systems, internal governance processes 
and compliance procedures are in place. 
IP , data and cyber risks
Description Change in risk Mitigation
A significant IP loss, third party IP challenge, 
data loss, security breach or cyber attack 
could significantly threaten Gresham’s ability 
to do business, particularly in the short term, 
and could result in significant financial loss.
I
There have been no specific issues arising 
and our view is that these risks are stable 
and manageable. However, it is recognised 
that certain risks in this category may 
increase where IP is inherited through 
strategic acquisition. 
We implement robust processes across 
IP and IT systems, which are overseen by 
Gresham’s information security committee. 
This committee includes members of the 
executive team which provides high levels 
of visibility and risk management. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 15
Strategic Report Introduction
The Group delivered an extremely confident performance in 
2016, which was underpinned by strong organic revenue growth 
from Clareti solutions. We grew licence revenues from our existing 
Clareti base, won eleven new CTC customers, and brought another 
35 customers into the Group through our acquisition of C24 Technologies. 
As a result, our recurring revenue from Clareti has grown 53% year on 
year. We continued to invest in innovation and further strengthened the 
organisation to deliver sustainable growth and service to customers. 
Business development
We invested further in sales and marketing resources during 2016 
and we now have experienced direct sales staff in UK, mainland Europe, 
Asia Pacific and the US. Compared to the mainstream competition, our 
sales team is small and we need to have a focussed strategy. Our approach 
to opening markets is to gain sales, delivery and product expertise in 
specific use cases in targeted industry sub-segments. We then aim to 
replicate those solution sales across an industry niche in our chosen 
geographies to win new customers. In addition, we target new use 
cases in our customer base to drive licence adoption and growth. 
Our targeted industry segments include banking and capital markets 
where we started the Clareti journey. 
In more recent years, we have opened new verticals such as insurance 
broking, asset management, payments, clearing and settlements, and 
more exotic niches such as FX trading and spread betting. In 2016, our 
new business came primarily from these key markets. We also won our 
first customer in the commodities space.
In addition to direct sales, we have bank white labelling agreements to 
access the corporate market. In the US, a major provider of data, software 
and services to the asset management community is a value-added 
reseller of CTC. 
New Clareti wins
During 2016, we signed eleven new customers for CTC taking the total 
to over 40. Including our recently acquired C24 customers, we now 
have about 75 Clareti customers across financial services and global 
markets, with many more corporates using Clareti technology via our 
bank white labelling partners.
UK and Europe
Our UK team had a strong performance in 2016, starting the year well with 
two new hedge fund client wins for CTC. This is a niche market segment 
where we have built an excellent base of referenceable clients and our 
reputation is starting to provide us with referrals.
One of the UK leading online trading firms specialising in spread betting 
and contracts for difference (CFD) has commenced a subscription for 
CTC as its strategic data integrity and control solution. This is the Group’s 
third CFD market win and further proof of the Group’s ability to win 
repeatable business in targeted industry niches.
Similarly, we have started to secure repeatable wins in insurance 
broking. In the fourth quarter, a leading UK insurance intermediary 
selected CTC to improve financial control of payables and receivables 
within its broker business as part of a wider finance transformation 
programme. This was our fourth client win in insurance and the client 
also made a seven-year strategic commitment to use the Group’s 
Clareti-as-a-Service cloud platform.
We were also pleased to close the Group’s first win in the commodities 
market. One of the world’s leading independent commodity trading 
and logistics houses selected CTC as its global enterprise data integrity 
solution. The initial implementation will provide end-to-end control 
in trading operations across clearing brokers, execution brokers and 
over-the-counter (OTC) counterparties. Future phases are expected 
to include controls across payments, static data and inter-company 
transactions as well as inventory assurance in their metal, minerals, 
oil and petroleum businesses. The commodities industry is facing 
increasing data governance and regulatory challenges alongside 
macro-economic pressures and we believe there is potential to 
replicate this win across the sector in the same way as we have done 
in other industries.
Following new investment in 2016 to focus on European sales, we 
signed an important new European regional bank client for CTC in 
early 2017 and we also won a Swiss subsidiary of a major Russian bank 
for CTC in February 2017 . In addition, we have signed several professional 
services engagements for deployment projects won in 2016.
North America
Our North American operations started 2016 with a stronger new 
business sales orientation targeting the financial services communities 
in New York and Toronto. In the first quarter , we secured a major US hedge 
fund as a client for CTC. They also elected to use the software in the 
cloud and, as a result, became our first US Clareti-as-a-Service customer. 
We were also delighted that our first US Clareti partner, a major financial 
services organisation which had selected our technology in late 2014 
to be a white labelled offering for its asset management clients, won its 
first two end-customer sales. All three fund managers are now live using 
CTC daily and we believe there is strong potential for growth in the 
substantial US buy-side industry.
Ian Manocha
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 16
Strategic Report
Operational review In December, after completing rigorous due diligence, a New York 
based Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) Tier 1 bank purchased 
CTC to underpin a technology enabled transformation in the data 
processing operations of one of its key business divisions. This represents 
Gresham’s first major Clareti win with a US-based Tier 1 bank. The five-year 
contract will see CTC deployed to replace outdated manual processes 
and user developed applications to improve data quality and customer 
service and to reduce operational processing costs. There is potential 
for licence growth in future years as the customer’s use of the Clareti 
platform grows.
Since the year end, we have signed a leading global brokerage 
firm based in the US who selected CTC as part of a plan to modernise 
its approach to transaction lifecycle management. CTC will be used 
to ensure the integrity of trading data, improve the effectiveness 
of controls and reduce operational costs.
Asia Pacific
Our Asia Pacific operations remain largely focussed on servicing 
and growing our two key accounts in this region, which performed 
largely as expected.
Our Singapore-based Tier 1 bank customer, signed in 2013, continued 
to draw on our Innovation Labs for enhancements to the core solution, 
which delivered a steady flow of chargeable product development 
services and an increase in the base annual subscription. In Australia, 
we consolidated our relationship with Australia and New Zealand 
Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) through another year of close collaboration, 
and the relationship continues to deliver a beat-rate of services revenues. 
ANZ also increased its base Clareti subscription modestly as they 
added several additional end customers.
In terms of new Clareti sales, one of the largest asset managers in 
Australia was signed in December for a small Clareti subscription, 
with potential for growth in 2017 . 
Customer loyalty and growth
I am convinced that we provide our customers with a differentiated 
experience compared to the long-established legacy players in the 
core matching and reconciliation market, which is something we are 
all passionate about sustaining as we scale up.
During 2016, we moved our Denver-based support function, 
and our cloud development function, to be co-located in Bristol 
with our development team. In conjunction with our Sydney operation, 
we are now able to offer 24/7 “bank-grade” support globally. We 
have consolidated our services and support operations under a new 
executive with overall responsibility for service delivery and customer 
success. 
Our consulting operations work closely with the sales function to ensure 
that we secure rapid implementation success and referenceability across 
the customer base and to ensure that consulting is profitable on a 
standalone basis. During the year, we saw around 15 customers 
“go live” with new CTC projects. 
We continue to conduct quarterly face-to-face service reviews 
with customers and Net Promoter
®
 scores are taken at key points 
of interactions and reviewed monthly. During 2016, we started our 
user group “Clareti Partners” and we continue to encourage customers 
to have an ongoing direct dialogue with our development team. 
We also hosted several client workshops at our Innovation Labs.
In the year, three existing customers increased their CTC licence 
investment. In particular, we saw an important contract upgrade 
from one of our larger early-adopter global investment banking 
clients. This customer completed its multi-year enterprise inter-system 
controls migration project in 2015, and is live with an enterprise scale 
implementation of more than 500 controls on a single instance processing 
up to 200 million trades a day. In 2016, the customer decided to extend 
the use of the platform to provide control over market-facing data and 
consequently we signed a contract extension that provides a framework 
for additional licence growth over the coming years. 
Clareti Loan Control
In 2016, we took a strategic decision to enter into a joint venture with 
Mount Street Loan Solutions LLP , one of Europe’s leading real estate 
debt specialists. Mount Street originally selected Gresham in 2015 to 
build a new software application, Clareti Loan Control (CLC), to enable 
Mount Street to streamline the complex data management flows in loan 
servicing and deliver enhanced services to their customers. The first release 
of CLC is now live in their business and delivering the expected benefits.
We believe that there is a significant market opportunity for selling 
CLC as a disruptive loan control offering into financial institutions, which 
are also a key market for our transaction control solutions. Further, we 
believe that partnering with Mount Street via a legal joint venture provides 
the quickest and most effective route to early success and we are excited 
about the prospects. I am pleased to confirm that we have also been 
selected for a CLC pilot with a major European bank, a potential 
second CLC client.
C24 Technologies
In October, following a successful fund raise, the acquisition of 
C24 Technologies was completed. Integration is now also substantially 
complete and I am confident that the expected benefits will be realised 
during 2017 . There are high levels of satisfaction amongst the current 
customers and an ongoing demand in the market for message 
transformation technology.
In December, a fintech innovator signed for Clareti 24 Integration 
Objects as part of an OEM agreement to include enhanced financial 
message processing capabilities in its blockchain settlement products. 
We also signed a further OEM agreement with a global intelligence 
and technology company who are embedding Clareti 24 Integration 
Objects into a new solution offering that it expects to launch in H2 2017 .
The talented C24 software development team is working closely with 
their colleagues at our Innovation Labs and has integrated the technology 
with the Clareti platform and cross-trained our teams. We expect to secure 
further new standalone sales of Clareti 24 Integration Objects, as well 
as cross-sell the new Clareti Adapters to our CTC base. The acquired 
development team is now turning its attention to developing our 
Clareti Data Accelerator solution.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 17
Strategic Report Other business
Our legacy licensing and services business performed broadly in line 
with our business plan. EDT and VME remained stable during the year 
and operated at high margins. Our cash management clients for whom 
we are supporting third party software provided a steady flow of 
revenue during the year, although we are planning for cancellations 
during 2017 as older systems are replaced. Our contracting business 
in Australia performed strongly, delivering healthy cashflows from low 
margin rolling contracts. 
Products and innovation
The Group continues to invest in research and development in order to 
maintain a technology advantage in the core matching and reconciliation 
market and build a leadership position in the wider data integrity and 
control solutions market. 
Our flagship application, CTC, is now regarded as the best-in-class 
enterprise grade offering in the mainstream matching, reconciliation 
and controls market. We were pleased to have this confirmed when we 
were named as category winner by Chartis Research in their assessment 
of vendors in their FinTech Quadrant™ for data integrity and control 
solutions in November 2016. We are now seeing direct competitor 
replacements alongside new use cases or replacements of user 
developed applications and manual intensive processes in our new 
client list and in our pipeline.
In addition to enhancing the existing CTC and Clareti ARM solutions, 
a significant amount of resource in the year was focussed on developing 
new applications, including Clareti Loan Control and, later in the year, 
Clareti Data Accelerator (CDA). CDA, which leverages a combination 
of Gresham and C24 acquired core technology and will give us a play 
in the substantial enterprise data management market within financial 
services, and potentially into other industries over time.
Further details on our programme of technology innovation can be 
found in the Market, Technology and Talent section on page 8.
People
In my operational review last year, I observed that I was impressed by the 
professional, proactive and mission-led Gresham team. The Company 
continues to thrive with a healthy mix of bright young technology talent 
and experienced finance industry professionals. 
I particularly encourage high levels of collaboration between the 
business functions and across geographies, and aim to achieve a balance 
between start-up pace and entrepreneurial thinking, and the quality 
management processes of a well-established enterprise technology 
provider. During 2016, I took steps to strengthen the leadership team 
by consolidating our regional post-sales activities under a single 
global executive.
We also undertook our second annual employee engagement study 
with Great Place to Work
®
 with very positive results once again and 
enjoy extremely low levels of staff turnover. In 2017 , we will step up the 
recruitment of graduates to bring further new talent into the business 
as we build for our future as one of the world’s leading enterprise 
financial technology firms.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
13 March 2017
We engaged Gresham to provide technical 
expertise for a significant regulatory 
reporting remediation project. 
Gresham did a great job in reverting to our 
initial query with a solution that was beyond 
our expectation. It became very clear that 
the CTC product is already next-generation.
Gresham made themselves available to us 
and continued to support us through the 
final stages despite this being beyond the 
original plan. This demonstrated Gresham’s 
ultimate client focus perfectly. I would not 
hesitate to utilise Gresham again.
Adam Jesney
CEO (UK), Sberbank
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 18
Strategic Report
Operational review continued The year ending 31 December 2016 (FY2016) was a milestone year for 
the Group as we continued to add new Clareti customers at a regular 
beat-rate, expanded revenues from existing Clareti customers and 
inherited a significant number of new customer revenue relationships 
from our acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited. These factors led 
to a year on year increase of 42% in Clareti revenues and an increase 
of 92% in our closing Clareti annualised recurring revenues. 
The Clareti growth, in addition to good retention of our non-Clareti 
solutions revenues and strong cost and cashflow management 
generally, led to record levels of revenue, earnings and closing cash 
for the Group in FY2016.
Revenues
Our income is analysed between Clareti solutions revenues and 
Other solutions revenues. Clareti includes Clareti Transaction Control, 
Clareti Accounts Receivable Management, Clareti Loan Control and 
Clareti 24 Integration Objects. Other solutions include: Virtual Machine 
Environment (VME), Enterprise DistribuTape (EDT), and various other 
individual legacy software licensing and support arrangements in 
addition to partner products encompassing CashFac’s Virtual Bank 
Technology
®
 and Wall Street Systems’ treasury solutions.
Rob Grubb
2016 2015 Variance %
Clareti solutions
Recurring £m 2.9 1.9 1.0 53%
Non-recurring £m 1.8 1.5 0.3 20%
Software £m 4.7 3.4 1.3 38%
Services £m 2.8 1.9 0.9 47%
Total KPI £m 7.5 5.3 2.2 42%
Other solutions
Software £m 6.3 6.3 — n/a
Services £m 3.4 3.2 0.2 6%
Total £m 9.7 9.5 0.2 2%
Total KPI £m 17.2 14.8 2.4 16%
Annualised recurring revenue  
as at 31 December 2016
Clareti KPI £m 4.6 2.4 2.2 92%
Other £m 6.3 6.5 (0.2) (3%)
Total KPI £m 10.9 8.9 2.0 22%
Clareti solutions
FY2016 continued the trends seen in the prior year. In the year 
ended 31 December 2015 (FY2015), the Group achieved significant 
growth with Clareti revenues rising 51% by £1.8m to £5.3m and 
Clareti becoming the Group’s highest revenue-generating product 
set and largest gross margin contributor. This significant success 
continued in FY2016 as Clareti revenues increased by a further 
42% and £2.2m to £7 .5m, and, on a net revenue basis (excluding 
revenue-share to partners), Clareti exceeded the aggregate value 
of all non-Clareti revenues for the first time. We continue to plan 
and invest for similar levels of growth in the financial year 2017 
and beyond.
The Group continues with its strategic aim to focus revenue opportunities 
on annuity-based models to increase recurring revenue and visibility 
of future revenues that are either contracted or generally expected to 
automatically renew. We made excellent progress against this aim, with 
booked Clareti recurring revenues increasing 53% and £1.0m to £2.9m 
in FY2016 compared to the previous period, and by a significant 92% and 
£2.2m to £4.6m as an annualised run-rate at the end of the year. The C24 
business acquired in October 2016 contributed £0.3m to the Clareti 
recurring revenues booked in FY2016 and £1.2m of the annualised 
run-rate as at 31 December 2016.
Non-recurring Clareti software revenues (initial licence fees) were 
up 20% in FY2016. During the year, the Group implemented a policy 
of granting fixed term licence grants (typically five years), rather than 
perpetual licences, for customers for whom subscription licensing is 
not appropriate, opening up charging for additional future periods of 
use for these customers beyond the fixed licence term of the contract.
Clareti services revenues were also up strongly by 47% and £0.9m 
to £2.8m as new and existing customers purchased more consulting 
services to enable more Clareti use throughout their organisations. 
All parts of our services business were highly utilised and therefore 
profitable during FY2016.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 19
Strategic Report
Financial review Revenues continued
Other solutions
The Group’s Other solutions portfolio remained stable as anticipated. Non-Clareti software revenues continue to be almost entirely recurring 
in nature and remained flat year on year as customer attrition was offset by inflationary increases and licence changes. A significant number of 
customers continue to use the various software solutions within this diverse portfolio; however, due to the age of some of these products we 
continue to anticipate a decline in the revenues from these solutions over the next 10 years.
Non-Clareti services revenue recorded modest growth of £0.2m to £3.4m in FY2016. The majority of these revenues (80%+) are in respect 
of tactical contracting services provided to a strategically important Australian banking partner that generate a direct net contribution to the 
Group of approximately 15%.
Earnings
Operating performance is analysed excluding exceptional items, share option charges and amortisation from acquired intangible assets, which is 
consistent with the way in which the Board reviews the financial results of the Group.
2016 2015 Variance %
Earnings
Gross margin £m 14.2 12.0 2.2 18%
Gross margin % 83 81 1 2%
Adjusted EBITDA KPI £m 3.8 2.7 1.1 41%
Adjusted EBITDA KPI % 22 18 4 21%
Statutory profit after tax £m 2.6 2.0 0.6 30%
Adjusted diluted EPS KPI pence 4.67 3.38 1.29 38%
The Group’s gross margin rose to 83% in FY2016 from 81% in FY2015, driven in whole by the additional £2.2m contribution from increased Clareti revenue.
The Group delivered a strong increase in earnings with adjusted EBITDA rising by 41% and £1.1m to £3.8m, as the increased gross margin delivered 
by higher Clareti revenues was in part offset by planned investments throughout the Group’s operations and, in particular, in sales and marketing 
expenditure to maximise the market opportunities and future growth available for the Clareti platform and solutions.
Exceptional items
In H1 2016, the Group completed its planned office closures, which incurred a number of one-off costs relating to the termination of property 
leases and the associated costs of repair together with one-off costs for recruitment of key personnel. In October 2016, the Group acquired 
C24 Technologies Limited, which resulted in further one-off costs being incurred. In aggregate, these one-off costs totalled £275,000 (2015: £149,000).
Cashflow
2016 2015 Variance %
Operating cashflow excluding working capital £m 4.3 3.7 0.6 16%
Movement in working capital £m 1.8 (0.5) 2.3 (460%)
Capital expenditure – development costs £m (3.8) (3.0) (0.8) 27%
Capital expenditure – other £m (0.5) (0.3) (0.2) 67%
Placing and acquisition £m 0.4 — 0.4 n/a
Other £m 0.3 0.1 0.2 223%
Closing cash KPI £m 7.2 4.7 2.5 53%
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 20
Strategic Report
Financial review continued The Group’s financial position remained strong at 31 December 2016 
with closing cash of £7 .2m and no debt (2015: £4.7m and no debt). 
The year on year increase was largely due to the following factors: 
higher than anticipated working capital inflows as cash collection in 
Q4 2016 was significantly improved year on year; a small net cash inflows 
from the C24 acquisition and associated share placing; and gains arising 
from foreign exchange retranslations as a result of weaker Sterling at 
31 December 2016 compared to 31 December 2015.
Operating cashflow excluding working capital movements was again 
mostly reinvested in product development, which increased year on 
year as the result of expansion of our core development team throughout 
2015 and 2016, plus temporary additional resourcing to accelerate 
the development of Clareti Loan Control in the first half of 2016.
Cashflow and funding more generally remain a focus as the Group 
carefully balances the need to invest in product development and 
the sales and marketing required to distribute it in advance of winning 
and getting paid by new clients, followed by sufficient delivery and 
support functions to service these customers. The Group is particularly 
sensitive to this with larger customers that typically involve long selling 
cycles pre-contract and lengthy onboarding processes.
The Group anticipates that development spend will remain close to 
current levels for the foreseeable future. Further, with increasing Clareti 
sales from the growing annuity base and new customer wins coupled 
with tight cost control of planned investments, we expect the cash 
generation ability of the business to accelerate.
Taxation
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group has recorded a net 
tax credit of £0.4m (2015: £0.4m) which, as in prior years, is primarily as 
a result of research and development enhanced relief available for our 
UK development activities, offset with taxation payable both in the UK 
and overseas in respect of our reselling and servicing operations. As a 
sign of the Group’s maturity and increasing profitability in 2016, the Group 
did not surrender losses for R&D tax credit cash refund and losses have 
instead been directly utilised at full value against current and future UK 
taxable profits.
Rob Grubb
Chief Financial Officer
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 21
Strategic Report People
People are key to Gresham’s expertise and ability to deliver on a global basis. Retaining people and allowing them to fulfil their potential is important. 
Loss of key people could slow our ability to grow the business and we seek to provide rewards and job fulfilment that mitigate this risk. 
Each of the Group’s business units reviews strategies for retaining staff on an ongoing basis that are appropriate to the local geographic and industry 
economic climate, as described in the Market, Technology and Talent section. Where applicable, incentives include performance-based rewards 
payable to employees in the form of share options and/or bonuses, which are aligned to achievement of strategic Group objectives as well as 
personal objectives relevant to their role.
Employees are invited to attend regular meetings within individual segments throughout the Group, in addition to regular Group-wide communications. 
Performance appraisals are made annually or more frequently if required, to ensure that employees are getting sufficient support from the Group 
(including training needs) in order to satisfactorily complete their job requirements.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidate’s particular aptitudes and abilities are 
consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job. Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, career development 
and promotion. Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in 
the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Gender diversity
The Group strives to enable equality of opportunity and workplace cultures that promote inclusion. At 31 December 2016 the Group had the 
following split of gender of staff:
Female Male Total
Executive Directors — 2 2
Senior managers 1  5  6 
Staff 18  91  109 
 19 98 117
Non-Executive Directors 1 2 3 
Human rights
We support the protection of human rights around the world and are guided by fundamental principles such as those in the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core Conventions. This support is reflected in the Group’s 
policies and actions in the countries in which we do business. 
The vast majority of Gresham’s supply chain exists in the countries in which we operate (staff costs or partner shares mainly) and are well known 
and managed directly by us. Where we do utilise suppliers in less known markets, our policy is not to knowingly work with any supplier that does 
not share our value of human rights and in particular protection of employee rights. 
Environmental considerations
The Directors consider that, because of the nature of its activities, the Group does not have a significant impact on the environment in which 
it operates. However, we recognise the importance of environmental responsibility and seek, wherever possible, to reduce our environmental 
impact through focus on areas that we can control, such as energy saving, recycling and appropriate disposal of old computer equipment and 
mobile phones.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 22
Strategic Report
People and environmental Carbon emissions 
Greenhouse gas emissions
This section includes Gresham’s mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (Regulations).
Reporting year
Gresham’s reporting year is the same as its fiscal year, being the year ended 31 December 2016. This greenhouse gas reporting year has been 
established to align with our financial reporting year.
Organisation boundary and responsibility
Gresham reports emissions data using an operational control approach to define organisational boundary, which meets the definitional requirements 
of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which it is responsible. Gresham has reported on all material emission sources which it deems 
itself to be responsible for. These sources align with Gresham’s operational control and financial control boundaries. Gresham does not have 
responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of Gresham’s operational control. For example, business travel other than by 
car (including, for example, commercial flights or railways) and fully managed offices are not within Gresham’s operational control and, therefore, 
are not considered to be its responsibility.
Methodology
The methodology used to calculate Gresham’s emissions is based on the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse 
gas emissions reporting guidance” (June 2013) issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Gresham has also utilised 
Defra’s 2016 conversion factors within the reporting methodology.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data
For the year ended 31 December 2016:
Emissions from
31 December
2016
31 December
2015
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use – tonnes of CO
2
e 118 100 
Group’s chosen intensity measurement
Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes of CO
2
e per total £1,000,000 revenue 6.9 6.8 
Emissions data has been reported for Gresham’s operations in Australia and the UK, with locations in Malaysia, North America and Singapore 
considered not material to the scope of this reporting. 
In order to express Gresham’s annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with the Group’s activities, the Directors have used 
revenue as Gresham’s intensity ratio as this is the most relevant indication of its growth and provides for the best comparative measure over time. 
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2017 .
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
13 March 2017 13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 23
Strategic Report Chairman’s introduction to governance
The Board is committed to upholding high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group. As part of that, the Board 
acknowledges its role in setting the culture, values and ethics 
of the Group, and its collective responsibility for delivering 
long-term success to the Group. 
The Board’s aim is to operate as effectively as possible, in line with 
the governing principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Board discussions are conducted openly and transparently, which 
creates an environment for sustainable and robust debate. In the 
year, the Board has constructively and proactively challenged 
management on Group strategies, proposals, operating 
performance and key decisions, as part of its ongoing work to 
assess and safeguard the position and prospects of the Group. 
Key risks and uncertainties affecting the business are regularly 
assessed and updated. The Board challenges management 
to ensure appropriate risk mitigation measures are in place. 
The Board has completed a full, specific review of the Group’s 
key risks and uncertainties, which are set out on pages 14 and 15, 
in light of the new and emerging risks or uncertainties arising 
from the Group’s strategic growth plans and the wider economic, 
political and market conditions. 
In line with a structured plan to match the evolution of the Group, 
the composition of the Board has changed significantly in the 
last two years. Ian Manocha succeeded Chris Errington as 
Chief Executive in 2015, who changed role to Non-Executive 
Director. In September 2016, Imogen Joss replaced Max Royde 
as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, following the 
establishment of a nomination committee in March 2016. These 
appointments have significantly extended the skills, experience 
and level of independence of the Board and its committees, and 
the nomination committee continues to be charged with the 
ongoing assessment of such matters and the composition of 
the Board generally.
This year, the Group’s remuneration policy is being put 
for shareholder approval in line with the three-year cycle. 
Shareholders will note that we have made further steps to align 
the policy as closely as possible with best practice and I am 
pleased with the progress we have made in this area.
Finally, the Board continues to engage with shareholders 
and welcomes ongoing dialogue throughout the year, as well as 
through the formal shareholder events include the capital markets 
day and the Annual General Meeting. The Board has reviewed 
its communications policy for 2017 , as it does at least annually, 
and has taken account of shareholder feedback throughout 
the year, and of course the changing regulatory requirements. 
As always, I welcome shareholder attendance and participation 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Your Board looks forward to serving you in 2017 .
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
13 March 2017
Skills and experience Ken has over 35 years’ experience in 
the IT industry and possesses a wealth of knowledge of financial 
technology products and services having held a number 
of senior executive positions in this sector. 
Committees Chairman of the nomination committee and member 
of the remuneration and audit committees.
Term of office Ken was appointed to the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director in June 2010 and became 
Non-Executive Chairman in November 2010.
External appointments Ken is a non-executive director 
of Fidessa group plc (LSE:FDSA).
Ken Archer Non-Executive Chairman
Skills and experience Ian has extensive experience in the 
business technology sector. He joined Gresham from SAS where he 
worked for nearly 20 years, most recently as vice president business 
units, EMEA and AP . Ian has worked extensively with many of the 
world’s leading financial institutions and has been successful in 
growing companies to significant scale through securing and 
delivering high value enterprise software deals.
Committees None.
Term of office Ian was appointed to the Board in June 2015.
External appointments None.
Ian Manocha Chief Executive Officer
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 24
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors Skills and experience Rob qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young and has acquired substantial experience in 
assurance and strategic financial planning, as well as strong listed 
company experience. Rob joined Gresham in 2009 as Group 
Financial Controller, a position he held until 2011 when he was 
appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Committees None.
Term of office Rob was appointed to the Board in 2011.
External appointments None.
Rob Grubb Chief Financial Officer
Skills and experience Imogen has worked within the financial sector 
for over 20 years, and has extensive experience in financial sales and 
marketing. Most recently, Imogen has been the President of 
S&P Global Platts Inc., Imogen’s executive career also includes 
leadership roles with a range of high profile financial services 
organisations, including Lloyds Bank, Reuters plc, Financial Times 
Information Ltd, Extel Financial Ltd. and FTSE Group.
Committees Chair of the remuneration committee and member 
of the audit committee and nomination committee.
Term of office Imogen was appointed to the Board in September 2016. 
External appointments None.
Imogen Joss Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience Chris qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
Ernst & Young and has acquired substantial experience in the financial 
technology sector having joined Gresham in 2004. Chris is head of 
research at Kestrel Partners LLP .
Committees Chairman of the audit committee and a member 
of the nomination committee.
Term of office Chris was appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in June 2015, having previously been CEO (2010 to 2015) and CFO 
(2004 to 2010).
External appointments Chris is executive chairman of Snoozebox 
Holdings plc (AIM:ZZZ).
Chris Errington Non-Executive Director
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 25
Corporate Governance This statement explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of corporate governance and describes the Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council and 
available at www.frc.org.uk. For the next reporting period, commencing 1 January 2017 , the Company will report against the UK Corporate Governance 
Code published in April 2016. All references to the Company are in respect of the statutory entity Gresham Technologies plc, which is the ultimate 
parent undertaking of the Gresham group of companies.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Company has complied with the relevant provisions (Provisions) set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (Code) throughout the year 
with the exception of the matters referred to below:
Provisions Exceptions Explanations and steps taken
B1.2: there should be 
at least two independent 
non-executive directors.
The Company only has one Non-Executive Director 
who is considered to be independent, namely 
Ms I Joss who was appointed on 1 September 2016. 
Mr K Archer is not considered to be independent as 
a result of his participation in the Group’s share option 
scheme in December 2010. Mr C Errington is not 
considered independent as he previously held the 
role of Chief Executive of the Company, and has a paid 
role at Kestrel Partners LLP , a significant shareholder. 
The Company has made progress in the year 
by appointing Ms I Joss as Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director, in place of Mr M Royde who 
was not considered independent. The nomination 
committee, which was constituted on 7 March 2016, 
continues to assess the need for further independent 
Non-Executive Directors taking into account the 
Company’s size, complexity and circumstances. 
B2.1: the nomination 
committee should include 
a majority of independent 
non-executive directors.
The nomination committee comprises Mr K Archer 
(chair), Ms I Joss and Mr C Errington. The Company 
is not currently able to comply with this Provision 
as Ms I Joss is currently the only independent 
Non-Executive Director on the Board.
The Company established the nomination committee 
on 7 March 2016, which is a positive corporate governance 
development on the prior year. As noted above, the 
need for further independent Non-Executive Directors 
is being assessed by the nomination committee. 
C1.3: the audit 
committee should include 
at least two independent  
non-executive directors.
The audit committee comprises Mr C Errington 
(chair), Mr K Archer and Ms I Joss. The Company 
is not currently able to comply with this Provision 
as Ms I Joss is currently the only independent 
Non-Executive Director on the Board.
Ms I Joss is an independent Non-Executive Director, 
and C Errington has recent and relevant financial experience 
but is not considered independent for the reasons set 
out above. The need for further independent Non-Executive 
Directors is being assessed by the nomination committee.
D2.1: the remuneration 
committee should include 
at least two independent 
non-executive directors. 
The company chairman 
should not chair the 
remuneration committee.
From 13 March 2017 , the remuneration committee 
comprises Ms I Joss (chair) and Mr K Archer (member). 
The Company is not currently able to comply with 
this Provision as Ms I Joss is currently the only 
independent Non-Executive Director on the Board. 
Mr K Archer was chairman of the committee 
between 1 September 2016 and 13 March 2017 . 
Ms I Joss is an independent Non-Executive Director 
and was appointed chair of the committee after the role 
was performed by Mr K Archer on an interim basis, 
following Mr M Royde’s resignation in September 2016. 
As noted above, the need for further independent 
Non-Executive Directors is being assessed by the 
nomination committee.
D1.3: remuneration for 
non-executive directors 
should not include 
share options.
Mr K Archer was granted share options under 
the Group’s share option scheme established 
in December 2010. Details of directors’ 
interests in options are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
The Group’s share option scheme was approved 
following consultation with significant shareholders. 
The grant to Mr K Archer was considered to be necessary 
in light of the circumstances at that time. No further grants 
to Non-Executive Directors are planned.
The Board and its committees
Board composition
The Board is currently comprised of the Non-Executive Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct, set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness 
of the Board and ensuring communication with shareholders, and the 
Chief Executive is accountable for the management of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and assist in 
the development of strategy. They scrutinise the performance 
of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and 
monitor the reporting of performance.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Ms I Joss, is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman or Chief Executive has failed to resolve or for which 
such contact is inappropriate.
The Company Secretary is J Cathie who was appointed to the 
role on 21 March 2014. J Cathie is not a Director of the Company. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the Board as a whole.
Operation of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 
of the Group. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the financial statements is set out on page 44 and a viability statement 
and a statement on going concern is given on page 15.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 26
Corporate Governance
Statement of corporate governance The Board normally meets once a month and has a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. These include strategic 
planning, business acquisitions and disposals, authorisation of major 
capital expenditure and material unusual contractual arrangements, setting 
policies for the conduct of business and approval of budgets and financial 
statements. Other matters are delegated to the Executive Directors, 
supported by policies for reporting to the Board. Presentations are made 
to the main Board at each monthly Board meeting by the Executive 
Directors and also on regular occasions by operational management.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, 
on corporate governance matters. The Company maintains appropriate 
insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Company’s 
Directors and the Company Secretary, but no cover exists in the event 
that the Director is found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are 
able to meet without Executives present prior to each Board meeting. 
The agenda and relevant briefing papers for each Board meeting are 
distributed by the Company Secretary, usually a week in advance 
of each Board meeting.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are 
recorded in Board minutes. On resignation, a Non-Executive Director 
is required to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation 
to the Board if there are any such concerns.
The Board has formed the following committees to deal with the specific 
aspects of the Group’s affairs. The committee chairmen report regularly 
to the whole Board and are required to confirm that the committees 
have sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Audit committee
The audit committee is currently comprised of Mr C Errington 
(committee chairman), Mr K Archer and Ms I Joss. Mr C Errington 
was appointed as committee chairman on 28 April 2016 following 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, replacing Mr M Royde who 
ceased to be a member of the audit committee from such time. Ms I Joss 
was appointed to the audit committee on 2 November 2016. There were 
two audit committee meetings in respect of the 2016 financial year, 
and both were attended by the lead external audit partner and were 
attended by the Executive Directors and Company Secretary by invitation.
The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are set out in terms 
of reference available on the Company’s website and are described in 
more detail in the report of the audit committee on page 29.
Remuneration committee
As of 13 March 2017 , the remuneration committee is comprised 
of Ms I Joss (committee chair) and Mr K Archer. Prior to this, the 
committee was chaired by Mr M Royde (until 1 September 2016) and 
then by Mr K Archer (1 September 2016 until 13 March 2017). Ms I Joss 
operated as a member of the committee from 2 November 2016 
until becoming chair. The role and responsibilities of the remuneration 
committee are set out in terms of reference available on the Company’s 
website and are outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 33.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee is currently comprised of Mr K Archer 
(committee chairman), Mr C Errington and Ms I Joss. The nomination 
committee was formed on 7 March 2016. Mr K Archer and Mr C Errington 
were appointed to their roles on the committee on 7 March 2016. 
Ms I Joss was appointed to the committee on 2 November 2016. 
The role and responsibilities of the nomination committee are set out in 
terms of reference available on request Company’s website and are 
outlined in the report of the nomination committee on page 32.
Induction, training and performance evaluation
Induction and training
New Directors receive a thorough and tailored induction on their 
appointment to the Board covering the activities of the Group and its 
key business and financial risks, the terms of reference of the Board 
and its committees and the latest financial information about the Group. 
A full induction programme was provided for Ms I Joss, who joined 
the Board on 1 September 2016. 
The Chairman ensures that Directors update their skills, knowledge 
and familiarity with the Group required to fulfil their roles on the Board 
and on Board committees. Ongoing training is provided as necessary 
and includes updates from the Company Secretary on changes to the 
Listing Rules, requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory 
matters. Directors may consult with the Company Secretary at any time 
on matters related to their role on the Board. All Directors have access 
to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their duties, with requests for such 
advice being authorised by the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Meetings and attendance
The following table summarises the number of Board, audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee meetings held during 
the year and the attendance record of individual Directors at those meetings.
Number of meetings attended Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
K Archer 14/14 2/2 3/3 1/1
I Manocha 14/14 — — —
R Grubb 14/14 — — —
M Royde
(1)
8/8 1/1 2/2 —
C Errington 14/14 2/2 — 1/1
I Joss
(2)
6/6 1/1 1/1 —
(1) Mr M Royde left the Board on 30 September 2016.
(2) Ms I Joss was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2016.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 27
Corporate Governance Induction, training and performance evaluation continued
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
The Board has undertaken a formal review encompassing the 
performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and each 
Director. In performing these reviews, criteria that are taken into 
account include the ability of the Director to take the perspective 
of creating shareholder value; to contribute to the development 
of strategy and identification of risks; to provide clarity of direction 
to management; to be a source of wise counsel; to bring a broad 
perspective to discussions and an understanding of key issues; to 
commit the time required to fulfil the role; and to listen to and 
respect the ideas of fellow Directors and management.
The Chairman has formally reviewed the performance of Ms I Joss and 
Mr C Errington and satisfied himself that their performance continues 
to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to 
the role. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is responsible 
for, and has undertaken, the performance evaluation of the Chairman, 
taking into account the views of the other Directors and the criteria 
above, and is satisfied that his performance continues to be effective 
and that he continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Retirement and re-election
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
immediately following their appointment and thereafter are subject 
to re-election at intervals of no more than three years, or annually for 
any Non-Executive Director who has served for more than nine years. 
Prior to Ms I Joss’ appointment, Non-Executive Directors were appointed 
for unspecified terms and were terminable by three months’ notice 
from either the Company or the individual. This has now been reviewed 
and all Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms in line 
with corporate governance requirements. 
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a dialogue 
is maintained with shareholders based on the mutual understanding 
of objectives.
Members of the Board meet with major shareholders on a regular 
basis, including presentations after the Company’s announcement 
of the year-end results and at the half year.
The Board is kept informed of the views of shareholders at each 
Board meeting through a report from the Chief Executive together 
with formal feedback on shareholders’ views gathered and supplied 
by the Company’s advisers. The views of private and smaller shareholders, 
typically arising from the AGM or from direct contact with the Company, 
are also communicated to the Board on a regular basis.
Ms I Joss, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and 
Mr K Archer, the Non-Executive Chairman, are available to shareholders 
if they have concerns where contact through the normal channel 
of Chief Executive has failed to resolve or for which such contact 
is inappropriate.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation. All members of the Board 
attended the Company’s last AGM, and the Chairman aims to ensure 
that all members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM can be found in 
the Notice of the Meeting. A separate resolution is proposed for each 
substantially separate issue including a separate resolution relating to 
the report and accounts.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects, extending to 
interim reports and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to 
regulators as well as to information required to be presented by statutory 
requirements. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities is set out 
on page 44.
Management and specialists within the Group’s finance department 
are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial 
records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, 
reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and 
distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner. A review 
of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by 
management to ensure that the financial position and results of the 
Group are appropriately reported. All financial information published 
by the Group is subject to the approval of the audit committee.
Going concern
The Directors are required to report that the business is a going 
concern, with supporting assumptions and qualifications as necessary. 
The Directors have concluded that the business is a going concern as 
further explained in the Directors’ Report on page 41. Refer to page 15 for 
the viability statement required pursuant to Provision C2.2 of the Code.
Control environment
The Group operates within a control framework developed and 
strengthened over a number of years and communicated as appropriate 
by a series of written procedures. These lay down accounting policies 
and financial control procedures, in addition to controls of a more 
operational nature. The key procedures that the Directors have 
established with a view to providing internal control are as follows:
 • the establishment of the organisation structure and the delegated 
responsibilities of operational management;
 • the definition of authorisation limits, including matters reserved 
for the Board;
 • regular site visits by the Executive Directors, with the results reported 
to Board meetings;
 • the establishment of detailed operational plans and financial budgets 
for each financial year;
 • maintenance of a risk register which is reviewed and updated 
at every Board meeting;
 • review of regular, detailed monthly management reporting provided 
for every Board meeting which encompasses both review of operational 
activities and entries arising on consolidation;
 • reporting and monitoring performance against budgets 
and rolling forecasts;
 • the security of physical property and of computer information; and
 • detailed due diligence on all acquisitions.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 28
Corporate Governance
Statement of corporate governance continued Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present the report of the audit committee for the year 
ended 31 December 2016.
Introduction
The composition of the committee has seen some change in 2016. 
I took over as chairman of the committee from Mr M Royde in March 2016, 
and Ms I Joss joined the committee in November 2016. Mr K Archer 
continues to serve as a committee member. In the performance of its 
duties, the committee held two meetings in the year. Each of these was 
attended, at the committee’s invitation, by representatives of the external 
auditor and the Executive Directors.
In relation to the external audit, the committee is satisfied with the 
performance and independence of BDO LLP who will be proposed for 
reappointment the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. In particular, 
the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor in the year has 
reduced compared to the previous year, as shown in note 6 to the 
Group financial statements following a decision to move tax advisory 
work to an alternative firm to preserve auditor independence. The 
committee has assessed that there is no need for an internal audit 
function at this stage of the Group’s evolution.
Collectively, the committee has recent and relevant financial 
experience, as well as operational skills and experience, and now 
includes an independent Non-Executive Director with the appointment 
of Ms I Joss, and I am satisfied that the committee has appropriately 
discharged its duties in the year in accordance with its terms of 
reference. Terms of reference are reviewed annually and are 
available at www.greshamtech.com/investors.
Responsibilities
The work of the committee in discharging its responsibilities includes:
 • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and 
any formal announcements relating to the Group’ s financial performance, 
and reviewing financial reporting judgements contained in them;
 • reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and reviewing the 
Group’s internal control and risk management systems;
 • reviewing the Group’s whistle-blowing arrangements;
 • reviewing the need for a separate internal audit function;
 • making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders 
for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor;
 • reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements;
 • developing and implementing policy on engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external 
audit firm; and 
 • to report to the Board, identifying any matters for which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations 
as to the steps to be taken.
Audit committee membership
 • Chris Errington (committee chairman)
 • Imogen Joss
 • Ken Archer
Chris Errington
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 29
Corporate Governance
Audit committee report Significant judgements in relation to financial statements 
The significant judgements in relation to the financial statements 
considered by the committee are:
Capitalised development costs
Development costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 
Intangible Assets, and costs that meet the qualifying criteria are 
capitalised and systematically amortised over the useful economic 
life of the intangible asset. Determining whether development costs 
qualify for capitalisation as intangible assets requires judgement, 
including estimates of the technical and commercial viability of the 
asset created, and its applicable useful economic life. These estimates 
are continually reviewed and updated based on past experience and 
reviews of competitor products available in the market.
The committee has considered the development costs capitalised, 
including the technical and commercial feasibility of the product 
being produced and as to whether further costs continue to fulfil the 
required IAS 38 criteria or are of maintenance in nature. The committee’s 
review encompasses direct discussion with executive and operational 
management, in addition to reviewing monthly formal reporting to the 
Board on development and associated sales and implementation activity. 
The committee has concluded treatment of development costs continues 
to be in line with IFRS requirements.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue and the associated profit are recognised from sale of 
software licences, rendering of services, subscriptions and maintenance 
and solution sales. Whilst in most cases performance obligations clearly 
follow the commercial and contractual arrangement we have agreed 
with the customer, in some cases the revenue streams are combined 
as within an overall commercial arrangement. Such bundling requires 
judgement to assess performance obligations associated with each 
revenue stream and further judgement as to when and how such 
performance obligations have been discharged in order to recognise 
the associated revenue. The estimation of the stage of completion, 
along with the unbundling of multi-element solution sales, represents 
a risk of incorrect revenue recognition.
The committee has reviewed executive and operational management’s 
descriptions and status reports on material new deals and on delivery 
work-in-progress through the year, both through direct discussion 
and formal month-end reporting to the Board. The committee has 
furthermore considered management’s assessments made on percentage 
of completion of material work in progress, and other judgements such 
as bundling or unbundling of revenue streams, and the resulting impact 
on revenue and profit recognition. The committee has concluded that 
the timing of revenue and profit recognition continues to be in line with 
IFRS requirements.
Impairment reviews
The Group is required to perform impairment reviews of goodwill 
annually at the reporting date, and in addition performs impairment 
reviews of capitalised development costs to identify any intangible 
assets that have a carrying value that is in excess of its recoverable 
value. Determining the recoverability of an intangible asset requires 
judgement in both the methodology applied and the key variables within 
that methodology. Where it is determined an intangible asset is impaired, 
its carrying value will be reduced to its recoverable value with the difference 
recorded as an impairment charge in the income statement.
The committee has considered management’s assessments of value 
in use of cash-generating units of intangible assets (principally the 
goodwill and capitalised development costs) at the reporting date. 
This included specifically considering and subsequently approving 
business plans prepared by management supporting the future 
performance expectations used in the calculation of the value in use. 
The committee has concluded that the value in uses calculated for 
intangible assets are appropriate, and support the carrying values 
of intangible assets at the year end, in line with IFRS requirements.
Acquisition accounting and contingent consideration
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition, 
management are required to make judgements regarding the timing and 
amount of future cash flows applicable to the businesses being acquired, 
discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Such judgements are 
based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate 
period taking into account growth rates and expected changes to selling 
prices and operating costs. Management estimate the appropriate 
discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses 
being acquired.
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is included based on 
management estimates of the most likely outcome. Those judgements 
include the forecasting of a number of different outcomes against the 
performance targets and estimating a probability and risk of each outcome 
before arriving at a risk weighted value of contingent consideration.
The committee has considered management’s assessments of the fair 
value of the consideration and values attributed to the assets and liabilities 
acquired on acquisition as at the reporting date. This included specifically 
considering and subsequently reviewing and approving the sale and 
purchase agreement, assessing the estimate of contingent consideration 
against business plans prepared by management supporting the future 
performance expectations. The committee has concluded that the fair 
values attributed to both the acquisition and contingent consideration 
is in line with IFRS requirements.
Risk management and internal control systems
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management 
and internal control system to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets. The Directors acknowledge their ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring that the Group has in place a system of controls, 
financial and otherwise, and for risk management, that are appropriate 
to the business environment in which it operates and the risks to which 
it is exposed, and for monitoring those systems.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems during the year. This review covered all 
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Company’s risk management and internal control systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Action has been taken 
by the Board to enhance financial and other controls during the year. 
In addition, steps are continuing to be taken to further embed internal 
control and risk management processes into the operations of the 
business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to 
management’s and the Board’s attention.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 30
Corporate Governance
Audit committee report continued An embedded ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the principal risks faced by the Group has been in 
place throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of the 
approval of the financial statements. The process is regularly reviewed 
by the Board and accords with the Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 
produced by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014. 
The committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of 
the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters 
and concluded that they remain appropriate.
Internal audit function
During the year, the committee considered the need for a separate 
internal audit function and its impact on the external audit and 
concluded that, based on the size of the Group, a separate internal 
audit function is not necessary at this stage of the Group’s maturity. 
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed at least annually.
External auditor
The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the 
appointment of the external auditor. In making these recommendations, 
the committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, 
partner rotation and any other factors which may impact the external 
auditor’s appointment.
The last audit tender process undertaken by the committee was performed 
in 2010 resulting in the appointment of BDO LLP as external auditor for 
the year ended 31 December 2010. BDO LLP has continued as external 
auditor for every year since then including in respect of this Annual 
Financial Report. The external audit partner was last rotated in 2015.
In considering the effectiveness of the external auditor, the committee 
discussed and approved the scope of and the fees for the external 
audit plan, and reviewed the external auditor’s assessment of the 
significant risks in the Group’s financial statements and its associated 
work. In addition, the committee considered the commercial experience 
and expertise of the auditor, particularly in the Group’s industry sector; 
the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from this plan; 
and the robustness of the external auditor in its handling of key 
accounting and audit judgements.
In relation to independence, the committee reviews and controls 
the manner in which non-audit services are awarded to the external 
auditor on at least an annual basis. All significant non-audit work, and 
any work of a non-compliance consultancy nature, commissioned from 
the external auditor requires audit committee approval. In the year, 
non-audit fees represented 9% of the total fees paid to the external 
auditor, compared to 118% in the prior year. 
The committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of 
the external auditor, and a resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Group’s 
auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Chris Errington
Chairman of the audit committee
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 31
Corporate Governance Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present the report of the nomination committee for the 
year ended 31 December 2016.
The committee was formed on 7 March 2016, and, in addition to myself, 
includes Mr C Errington and Ms I Joss. In the performance of its duties, 
the committee held one meeting in the year which, at the committee’s 
invitation, was attended by the Chief Executive, Mr I Manocha.
The principal activities of the nomination committee in the year were 
leading the recruitment process and ultimately recommending the 
appointment of Ms I Joss as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
The process included a merit-based assessment based on objective 
criteria designed to strengthen the collective skills and experience of 
the Board. The process did not involve the use of independent search 
consultants as this was not considered to be appropriate or necessary in 
the circumstances, and the appointment was unanimously recommended 
to the Board by all members of the committee and the Chief Executive 
based on merit.
The Board’s policy is to ensure that all appointments are merit-based 
and based on objective criteria, giving all due regard to equality of 
opportunity, and to promote inclusion and diversity. The Board notes 
that achieving diversity in the technology sector is challenging, having 
regard to the available pool of individuals with the right skills, experience 
and talent. Given the relatively small size of the Board and the Group, 
the committee does not currently set any measurable objectives for 
implementing a diversity policy but it acknowledges the role of the 
Board in promoting diversity, including gender diversity, throughout 
the Group. Currently there is one female member of the Board, 
representing 20% of Board membership.
In relation to succession planning, the nomination committee 
keeps under review, and takes appropriate action to ensure, orderly 
succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management, 
so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within 
the Group and on the Board. As regards Non-Executive Directors, the 
committee considers, amongst other factors, their other significant outside 
commitments prior to making recommendations, which is designed to 
ensure that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them, 
and keeps any changes to these commitments under review.
I am satisfied that the committee has appropriately discharged 
its duties in the year in accordance with its terms of reference. 
Terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available at  
www.greshamtech.com/investors.
Ken Archer
Chairman of the nomination committee
13 March 2017
Nomination committee membership
 • Ken Archer (committee chairman)
 • Imogen Joss
 • Chris Errington
Ken Archer
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 32
Corporate Governance
Nomination committee report Annual statement from the chair of the remuneration committee
As newly appointed chair of the remuneration committee, I am 
pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2016.
As of 13 March 2017 , the committee is chaired by me and 
Mr K Archer is a member. Prior to this, Mr K Archer chaired the 
committee on an interim basis from 1 September 2016, following 
the announcement that Mr M Royde, the previous committee chairman, 
would be leaving the Board, and I joined as a member in November 2016. 
In the performance of its duties, the committee held three meetings in the 
year. Each of these was attended, at the committee’s invitation, by the 
Executive Directors, except in relation to discussions affecting their 
own remuneration.
This year, the Directors’ remuneration policy will be put to a shareholder 
vote at the AGM, having last been approved by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM. As previously, the Group’s policy on Directors’ remuneration 
is that the overall remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive 
to attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving 
the Group’s objectives and thereby enhancing shareholder value. 
To achieve this, the Group will continue to operate a simple 
remuneration structure made up of basic salary, benefits, share 
options, performance-related bonuses and pensions, as it has done 
since 2010. As previously, a significant proportion of remuneration 
will be based on performance, designed to align executive pay with 
shareholder interests. Consideration will also be given to pay and 
employment policies elsewhere in the Group. 
The main activities of the Committee since the last report can be 
summarised as follows:
 • assessing the performance of Executive Directors for the year 
reported and setting targets for the following financial period;
 • considering proposed bonus and share awards for the year reported;
 • making recommendations to the Board, within the agreed terms of 
reference, on the overall remuneration package for Executive Directors 
and, with advice from the Chief Executive, for other Senior Executives;
 • reviewing the Directors’ remuneration policy for shareholder vote; and
 • preparing and approving the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, no bonus payments will be 
made to Directors. During 2017 , the committee intends to review the 
Group’s bonus and long-term incentive schemes for Executive Directors, 
within the framework of the remuneration policy, and will consult with 
major shareholders if any key changes are proposed. The committee 
will also review bonus and incentive schemes for Senior Executives 
and for staff as a whole. 
Imogen Joss
Chair of the remuneration committee
13 March 2017
Remuneration committee membership
 • Imogen Joss (committee chair)
 • Ken Archer
Imogen Joss
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 33
Corporate Governance
Remuneration report This report complies with the requirements of the Large and  
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2014) and the Listing Rules.
The report is in two sections: 
 • the Directors’ remuneration policy. This section contains details 
of the remuneration policy that will the Company proposes to apply 
for the period commencing 1 January 2017 , subject to shareholder 
approval; and
 • the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This section sets out details 
of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 
31 December 2016 and how the Company intends for the policy to 
apply for the year ended 31 December 2017.
At the AGM to be held in 2017 , the Directors’ remuneration policy will 
be put to a binding shareholder vote, and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote. 
Directors’ remuneration policy
Remuneration policy table
The table below sets out the remuneration policy that the Company 
proposes to apply, subject to shareholder approval. If approved, the 
Company intends to apply the policy for three years commencing 
1 January 2017 .
The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out below, where the terms of the payment were 
agreed (i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the 
relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion 
of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes “payments” 
includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, 
in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are “agreed” 
at the time the award is granted.
Element of
remuneration Link to Group strategy Operation Framework
Base salary Supports the recruitment 
and retention of Executive 
Directors of the calibre 
required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Base salary is paid monthly 
and reviewed annually, with any 
increases applying from 1 April.
Base salary and reviews are assessed on both 
Group and individual performance, and, in the 
case of new Directors, their prior experience 
and skills. Consideration is also given to pay 
increases for other employees in the Group 
and to comparable pay for similar roles at 
similar companies. Where appropriate, the 
committee will engage external remuneration 
consultants for benchmarking.
Pension Supports the recruitment 
and retention of Executive 
Directors of the calibre 
required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Pension contributions are made by 
the Company to a defined contribution 
scheme operated by a third party provider. 
Pension contributions are matched by 
the Company up to a maximum of 5% 
of base salary, in line with other employees 
in the Group. In exceptional circumstances, 
such as recruitment of new Directors, the 
committee has discretion to authorise 
higher Company contributions up to a 
maximum of 10% of base salary in total.
Benefits Supports the recruitment 
and retention of Executive 
Directors of the calibre 
required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Benefits principally comprise private 
healthcare and death in service insurance.
Premiums are paid by the Company to an 
external broker to arrange cover, in line with 
other Group employees. These benefits are 
standard for all Group employees and are 
not assessed against performance. 
Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises 
the Executive Directors for 
achievement of strategic 
objectives as measured 
by KPIs.
The committee sets annual performance 
targets, linked to strategic objectives. 
Bonus payments in respect of a year are made 
in April, or later if any element is deferred. 
Annual targets are set predominantly, 
or even exclusively, in relation to financial 
measures, so as to maintain a link between 
shareholder value and bonus payments.
The committee has final discretion in 
determining the value of the bonus payment 
based on its assessment of performance 
against the set targets and as a whole. 
The committee has discretion to defer up 
to 50% of the annual bonus, which may be 
adjusted or forfeited if specified conditions 
are not achieved. 
The maximum bonus payable in respect  
of a year is 100% of basic salary.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 34
Corporate Governance
Remuneration report continued Element of
remuneration Link to Group strategy Operation Framework
Share  
option plan
Directly aligns 
financial incentives with 
returns to shareholders. 
Financial reward is created 
through the creation 
of shareholder value.
The committee has discretion to make option 
grants to Executive Directors and other staff, 
subject to the scheme rules, and to determine 
appropriate performance conditions. 
The share option plans are subject to 
rules and limits approved by shareholders 
in general meeting. Options are granted at 
an exercise price of not less than 110% of the 
mid-market price of ordinary shares on the 
day prior to the date of grant. All options are 
subject to a minimum three-year vesting period, 
and any exercise is subject to satisfaction of 
the specified performance conditions, which 
the committee assesses. 
Chairman 
and Non-
Executive 
Director fees
Supports the recruitment 
and retention of individuals 
of the calibre required to 
constitute an effective 
Board and contribute 
to the Company’s 
long-term success. 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are set by 
the Board (excluding Non-Executive Directors). 
Fees are paid monthly. 
A basic fee is set for normal duties, 
commensurate with fees paid for similar roles 
in other similar companies, taking account 
of the time commitment, responsibilities, and 
committee position(s). Supplementary fees 
are paid for any additional duties at fixed day 
rates. Non-Executive Directors are not 
eligible for pensions, incentives, bonus or any 
similar payments other than normal out of 
pocket expenses incurred on behalf of the 
business. Compensation for loss of office 
is not payable to Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration scenarios
Executive pay under the above policy is wholly contractually based and represents 100% of maximum remuneration.
The following graphs compare all elements of Executive Director pay in respect of 2016, and proposed for 2017 , incorporating the following scenarios:
 • the minimum remuneration receivable (“minimum”);
 • the remuneration receivable if the Director performs in line with the Company’s expectation (“expected”); and
 • the maximum remuneration ordinarily receivable (“maximum”), inclusive of an annual bonus of up to 100% of salary.
For each scenario, the first graph illustrates these amounts in Pounds Sterling, and the second graph shows the proportion each element is of total 
pay for the individuals shown expressed as a percentage. On each graph, “BIK” means benefits in kind.
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(minimum)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£250,000
£1,983
£12,500
£0
£0
£253,750
£1,997
£12,688
£122,400
£1,452
£6,120
£0
£0
£135,600
£1,469
£6,780
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(minimum)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
1%
5%
£0
£0
94%
1%
5%
94%
1%
5%
£0
£0
94%
1%
5%
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 35
Corporate Governance Remuneration policy considerations
Recruitment
The Company’s nomination committee is responsible for leading the 
process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the 
Board. Prior to the formation of the nomination committee in March 2016, 
these responsibilities were undertaken by the Board as a whole.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective 
criteria. Care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to 
devote to the job, especially in the case of chairmanships. The nomination 
committee keeps under review, and takes appropriate action, to ensure 
orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior 
management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience within the Group and on the Board.
Loss of office payments
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive Directors 
with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. The remuneration 
committee considers the circumstances of individual cases of early 
termination and only in exceptional circumstances would the committee 
recommend compensation payments in excess of the Company’s 
contractual obligations.
Wider staff employment conditions
The remuneration committee considers pay and employment 
conditions for other Senior Executives and staff members of the 
Group when designing and setting executive remuneration. 
Underpinning all pay is an intention to be fair to all staff of the Group, 
taking into account the individual’s seniority and local market practices.
Consultation with shareholders
The remuneration committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue 
with shareholders and seeks the views of significant shareholders when 
any major changes are being made to remuneration arrangements. 
The committee takes into account the views of significant shareholders 
when formulating and implementing the policy.
Consultation with employees
The Board and the remuneration committee did not consult with 
employees when formulating and implementing the policy.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
It is the Company’s policy to offer Executive Directors service contracts 
terminable with a maximum of twelve months’ rolling notice from either 
side. None of the Non-Executive Directors have a service contract. 
Appointments are for three-year terms, which may be renewed by 
mutual agreement, subject always to termination by either party at 
any time on three months’ notice.
Policy on Director shareholding
The Company has no policy on Director shareholdings.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Remuneration scenarios continued
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(expected)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£250,000
£1,983
£12,500
£0
£22,000
£253,750
£1,997
£12,688
£122,400
£1,452
£6,120
£0
£10,000
£135,600
£1,469
£6,780
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(expected)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
1%
5%
£0
8%
87%
1%
4%
94%
1%
5%
£0
6%
89%
1%
4%
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(maximum)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£250,000
£1,983
£12,500
£0
£253,750
£1,997
£12,688
£122,400
£1,452
£6,120
£0
£135,600
£1,469
£6,780
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
£253,750
£135,600
Executive Director pay 2016 and proposed 2017 
(maximum)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2016 2017 minimum
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
1%
5%
£0
49%
2%
94%
1%
5%
£0
48%
1%
2%
Salary Bonus BIK Pension
49%
£0
49%
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 36
Corporate Governance
Remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration report
Single figure for total remuneration (audited information)
The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015:
31 December 2016
Basic salary
and fees
£
Benefits
in kind
£
Loss of
office
£
Performance
related bonus
£
Pension
£
IFRS 2
Share-based
payment charge
£
Total
2016
Executive Directors 
I Manocha
(1) 
250,000 1,983 — — 12,500 75,441 339,924
R Grubb 122,400 1,452 — — 6,120 — 129,972
Non-Executive Directors 
K Archer 80,000 — — — — — 80,000
I Joss
(3) 
13,333 — — — — — 13,333
C Errington
(2) 
30,000 — — — — — 30,000
M Royde
(4) 
25,000 — — — — — 25,000
520,733 3,435 — — 18,620 75,441 618,229
31 December 2015
Basic salary
and fees
£
Benefits
in kind
£
Loss of
office
£
Performance
related bonus
£
Pension
£
IFRS 2
Share-based
payment charge
£
Total
2015
Executive Directors       
I Manocha
(1) 
145,833 544 — — 7,292 35,889 189,558 
R Grubb 115,000 936 — — 5,750 — 121,686 
C Errington
(2) 
62,500 545 — — 3,125 — 66,170 
Non-Executive Directors: 
K Archer 82,250 — — — — — 82,250 
I Joss
(3)
 — — — — — — — 
C Errington
(2)
 17,500 — — — — — 17,500 
H Purdey
(5)
2,077 — — — — — 2,077
M Royde
(4)
 30,000 — — — — — 30,000 
455,160 2,025 — — 16,167 35,889 509,241
(1) Appointed CEO 1 June 2015.
(2) CEO appointment ceased and became a Non-Executive 1 June 2015.
(3) Appointed Non-Executive Director 1 September 2016.
(4) Resigned as Non-Executive Director 30 September 2016. 
(5) Appointed 18 June 2014. Resigned 26 January 2015.
The remuneration package of each Executive Director includes non-cash benefits comprising the provision of private healthcare and death 
in service insurance.
During the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 the committee did not award any performance-related bonuses in respect of Directors.
No share options were granted to Directors in the year. During 2015, 1,500,000 share options were granted to I Manocha upon his appointment 
as CEO. These share options are granted under the share options schemes adopted in 2010 and are subject to a minimum three-year vesting period 
and performance conditions, details of which can be found on page 38.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 37
Corporate Governance Directors’ remuneration report continued
Interests in options (audited information)
The Group operates share option schemes (Option Schemes 2010), under which Directors and other Senior Executives are able to subscribe for 
ordinary shares in the Company. There are no other share option schemes in operation. Further details concerning the Option Schemes 2010, 
including vesting conditions, can be found in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
The interests of the Directors under the Option Schemes 2010 were as set out in the table below:
Options at
1 January 2016 Granted Cancelled Exercised
Options at
31 December
2016
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
Executive Directors
I Manocha
(1) (4)
1,500,000 — — — 1,500,000 01.06.15 111p 01.06.18 01.06.25
R Grubb — — — — — — — — —
Non-executive 
Directors 
M Royde
(2) (3)
500,000 — — — 500,000 31.12.10 28p 31.12.13 31.12.20
K Archer
(1) (3)
700,000 — — — 700,000 31.12.10 28p 31.12.13 31.12.20
I Joss — — — — — — — — —
C Errington — — — — — — — — —
2,700,000 — — — 2,700,000  
(1) Options over which the Director has agreed to pay any employer’s national insurance arising from the exercise of the options.
(2) Resigned as Non-Executive Director 30 September 2016.
(3) Vested.
(4) Yet to vest.
The closing market price of the Company’s shares on 31 December 2016 was 129.5 pence. During the year, the closing price per ordinary share 
ranged from 89.5 pence to 132.0 pence.
There were no exercises of Director share options in the years ended 31 December 2016 or 31 December 2015.
The interests of the Directors to subscribe for or acquire ordinary shares have not changed since the year end.
Service contracts
I Manocha has a service agreement dated 15 February 2015 which is 
terminable by twelve months’ rolling notice from either side. R Grubb 
has a service agreement dated 18 May 2011, which is terminable by 
six months’ rolling notice from either side.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment. 
Appointments are for three-year terms, which may be renewed by 
mutual agreement, subject always to termination by either party at any 
time on three months’ notice. Until 30 September 2016, the services 
of Mr M Royde were provided and invoiced by Kestrel Partners LLP 
(a company in which he has an ownership interest) under a consultancy 
agreement dated 19 November 2009.
All Director service contracts and letters of appointment are available 
for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered office, 
Aldermary House, 10–15 Queen Street, London EC4N 1TX.
The link between pay and performance
The key variable element of Directors’ and senior managers’ pay is the 
award of share options and payments of performance-based annual 
bonuses. All Director and senior manager performance that directly 
creates shareholder value will in turn directly increase the value of 
individuals’ share option awards and annual bonus payments awarded.
Information regarding performance-related pay conditions in 2016
The following information is provided in relation to performance-related 
pay conditions for Executive Directors that applied during 2016. 
No bonus scheme was put in place for Mr I Manocha or Mr R Grubb 
for the year ended 31 December 2016, and accordingly no bonus 
was paid to either of them.
The share options granted to Mr I Manocha in June 2015 are subject to 
a minimum three-year vesting period, such that exercise is not possible 
until 1 June 2018 at the earliest. The exercise of these share options is also 
subject to a performance condition requiring the number of direct CTC 
customers at the date of exercise to be equal to or greater than 40 (forty). 
This condition is expected to be achieved during 2017 . The remuneration 
committee is responsible for determining whether the performance 
condition has been achieved. Mr R Grubb does not hold any share options.
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
No payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 
31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).
Percentage change in the remuneration of the CEO
The table below sets out the increase in the total remuneration 
of the CEO and our staff (excluding promotions where relevant) in 
2016. We have selected all staff (around 120 people) for this comparison 
because it is considered to be the most relevant, due to the structure of 
total remuneration.
Change in
base salary
Bonus
payment as %
of base salary
CEO (I Manocha) 0% 0%
All staff 2% 0%
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 38
Corporate Governance
Remuneration report continued Performance graphs
Total shareholder return
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for each of the last six 
financial years in terms of the change in value (with dividends reinvested) 
of an initial investment of £100 on 31 December 2010 in a holding of the 
Company’s shares against the corresponding total shareholder return 
in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE TechMark All-Share Index. 
The FTSE TechMark All-Share was selected as it represents a broad 
equity market index in which the Company is a constituent member.
Total shareholder return (£)
Gresham Technologies plc FTSE TechMark All-Share Index
This graph shows the value, by the end of 2016 of £100 invested in Gresham Technologies plc on 
31 December 2010 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE TechMark All-Share Index. 
The other points are values at intervening financial year ends.
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Change in CEO pay
The graph below shows the single total figure of remuneration for the 
role of CEO for the current and previous five years.
Total Chief Executive Officer pay (£)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
400,000
350,000
300,000
250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
0
The table on page 40 shows how the total Chief Executive Officer pay 
is broken down.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below shows the total employee pay cost (excluding 
capitalisation entries) compared to profit before tax (for continuing 
operations and before exceptional items) for the years ended 
31 December 2016 and 2015. There were no distributions 
or share buy backs in the year.
Total employee pay compared to profit before tax (£)
Employee pay Profit before tax
2014 2015 2016
9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Statement of remuneration policy in the following year
The remuneration policy proposed to apply for the year commencing 
1 January 2017 is set out above and will be put to shareholder vote at the 
2017 AGM. There are no significant changes in the way the remuneration 
policy will be implemented in 2017 compared to how it was 
implemented for the reported year.
Consideration of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
Until 1 September 2016, the remuneration committee was comprised 
of Mr M Royde (chairman) and Mr K Archer. Neither are considered 
independent, as required by provision D2.1 of the Code. Mr K Archer 
held the chair from 1 September 2016 until 13 March 2017 . Ms I Joss 
joined the committee as a member in November 2016 and became 
chair on 13 March 2017 . Only Ms I Joss is considered independent, and 
therefore the remuneration committee does not include at least two 
independent Non-Executive Directors, as required by provision 
D2.1 of the Code. 
The committee is responsible for considering and setting remuneration 
for all Executive Directors and the Chairman appointed by the Company, 
including pension rights and provision for compensation payments. In 
2016, Mr R Grubb’s base salary was increased by 2% to £122,400, in line 
with other Group employees. Mr I Manocha’s base salary remained 
unchanged throughout the year. 
The committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior management. The remuneration of 
Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the executive members of the 
Board, within limits set in the Articles of Association. The remuneration 
committee consults with the Chief Executive concerning the remuneration 
of other Executive Directors. Where appropriate, the committee seeks 
independent advice from remuneration consultants and also consults with 
the remainder of the Board. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 39
Corporate Governance External advisers
The Group did not appoint any advisers to the remuneration committee in the current or in the previous financial year.
Imogen Joss
Chair of the remuneration committee
13 March 2017
The Total Chief Executive Officer pay graph on page 39 is derived from the data in the following table:
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Ian Manocha
(CEO from 1 June 2015)
Base salary — — — — 145,833
(1)
250,000 
Benefits in kind — — — — 544
(1)
1,983 
Bonus — — — — — —
Pension — — — — 7,292
(1)
 12,500 
IFRS2 share-based payment charges — — — — 35,889
(1)
75,441 
— — — — 189,558
(1)
 339,924
Chris Errington
(CEO until 1 June 2015)
Base salary 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 62,500
(2)
—
Benefits in kind 1,691 1,691 1,165 1,334 545
(2)
—
Bonus — — — — — —
Pension 7,500 7,500 7,500 7,500 3,125
(2)
 —
IFRS2 share-based payment charges — — — — — —
159,191 159,191 158,665 158,834 66,170
(2)
—
Total 159,191 159,191 158,665 158,834 255,728 339,924 
(1) Relates to the seven-month period 1 June 2015 to 31 December 2015.
(2) Relates to the five-month period 1 January 2015 to 30 June 2015.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 40
Corporate Governance
Remuneration report continued The Directors present their report and the Group financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out within the Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s Statement and Strategic 
Report. Disclosures in respect of principal risks and uncertainties, 
people (including employees and disabled employees), Global 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and product development (incorporating 
research and development activities) are included within the Strategic 
Report under s414(c) of the Companies Act 2006. In addition, note 20 
to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives; policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. The statement 
of corporate governance beginning on page 26 forms part of the 
Directors’ Report.
Directors and officers
The Directors who served on the Board during the year are 
set out on pages 24 and 25, all of whom served throughout the year 
with the exception of Ms I Joss who was appointed on 1 September 2016. 
In addition, Mr M Royde was a Director of the Company until his 
resignation on 30 September 2016. Mr J Cathie served as 
Company Secretary throughout the year.
Results and dividends
The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £2,605,000 
(2015: £1,950,000). The Directors do not recommend a final ordinary 
dividend, which leaves the profit of £2,605,000 to be added to reserves. 
No dividends are recommended and none were paid in the prior year.
Going concern and viability statement
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with good 
relationships with a number of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and industries. The Group has access to a strong 
underlying cashflow arising from long-established maintenance businesses 
with long-standing blue-chip customers and strong growth prospects 
being realised with its flagship solution, CTC, and its other Clareti solutions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and 
financial statements.
Refer to page 15 for the viability statement required pursuant to 
Provision C2.2 of the Code.
Change of name
The Company changed its name from Gresham Computing plc 
to Gresham Technologies plc by shareholder vote in general 
meeting held on 17 November 2016. The change was registered 
with Companies House on the same day and therefore effective 
17 November 2016. 
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events.
Significant relationships
In 2016, the Group had two customer relationships considered to be 
individually significant to the Group. The first relates to APAC operations 
and includes a mix of revenues from the Group’s cash management 
solution, from Clareti, and from other strategic non-recurring revenues. 
The other relates to EMEA operations and derives from the Group’s cash 
management solution, comprising Gresham integration technology and 
CashFac’s Virtual Bank Technology
®
. Revenues from these customer 
relationships individually exceeded 10% of the Group’s revenue in 2016.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group does not have any other 
individually significant relationships.
Directors and their interests
The Directors at 31 December 2016 and their connected persons’ interests 
in the share capital of the Company (all beneficially held, other than with 
respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed in the 
analysis of options included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report) are 
as follows:
Ordinary shares of 5 pence each
31 December
2016
1 January
2016
K Archer 150,000 150,000 
I Joss
(1)
— —
C Errington 532,268 532,268 
I Manocha 75,000 —
R Grubb 231,405 231,405 
M Royde
(2)
— 42,472
M Royde Kestrel Opportunities
(2)
— 5,767,164
(1) Appointed 1 September 2016.
(2) Resigned 30 September 2016.
There have been no further changes in the Directors’ interests disclosed 
above from 31 December 2016 to 28 February 2017 .
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to one or more of its 
Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by 
third parties, subject to the conditions set out in section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Such qualifying third party indemnity provision 
remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors’ Report. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance with an indemnity limit 
of £10m has been purchased in order to minimise the potential 
impact of proceedings against Directors.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 41
Corporate Governance
Directors’ report
Registered number 1072032 Major interests in shares
The Company has been notified, either directly or in response to 
a section 793 request made on its behalf, of the following interests 
representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 28 February 2017:
Number
Percentage
held
Kestrel Partners 9,656,653 14.5%
Schroder Investment Management 8,796,136 13.2%
JO Hambro Capital Management 6,470,000 9.7%
Hargreave Hale, stockbrokers 4,604,109 6.9%
Majedie Asset Management 3,752,987 5.6%
Herald Investment Management 3,183,774 4.8%
Mrs MA Green 3,073,290 4.6%
Mr Richard Griffiths 2,607,505 3.9%
Blevins Franks Trustees Limited 
as Trustee of the Lusitania Trust 2,178,091 3.3%
Artemis Investment Management 2,361,757 3.5%
Mr Stephen William Purchase 2,001,678 3.0%
Political donations
No donations were made in 2016 or 2015.
Social and community
No social or community review has been performed for 2016 or 2015.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting
The special business to be conducted at the AGM covers the 
Directors’ authority to allot shares and the partial disapplication 
of pre-emption rights. Resolutions will be proposed to renew the 
authorities given to the Directors to allot and grant rights over the 
unissued share capital up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,113,075 
representing one-third of the issued ordinary share capital as at28 
February 2017 and to allot and grant rights over shares for cash up to a 
maximum nominal amount of £166,961, representing 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital as at 28 February 2017 , without first making a 
pro rata offer to all existing shareholders.
Further special business to be conducted at the AGM relates to the 
renewal of the authority of the Company to make market purchases 
of its own ordinary shares, and the authority to call meetings (other 
than Annual General Meetings) on not less than 14 clear days’ notice. 
Resolutions will be proposed in this regard. In relation to the purchase 
of own shares, the Company’s authority will be limited to 6,678,452 
ordinary shares which represents 10% of the issued ordinary shares 
capital of the Company as at 28 February 2017 .
In the opinion of the Directors, the passing of these resolutions is in 
the best interests of the shareholders.
Additional information for shareholders
At 31 December 2016, the Company’s issued share capital comprised:
Number
Nominal
value
£
% of total
share capital
Ordinary shares 
of £0.05 each 66,784,518 3,339,226 100%
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, certain share options granted 
under the Option Scheme 2010 were exercised and as a result the Group 
issued 350,000 ordinary shares, such shares ranking pari passu with 
ordinary shares then in issue (2015: 37 ,500). See note 22 of the Group 
financial statements for further details.
Ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share 
held. The notice of the general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising 
voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy in 
relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. All proxy votes 
are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published 
on the Group’s website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws and market 
requirements relating to close periods).
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended 
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. 
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting 
of the shareholders. The Board may appoint a Director but anyone 
so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next 
Annual General Meeting. Any Director who has held office for more 
than three years since their last appointment by shareholders at a 
general meeting must offer themselves up for re-election at the 
following Annual General Meeting.
Significant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are shown 
in the table on page 41. Major interests (i.e. those >3%) of which the 
Company has been notified are shown on page 42.
Change of control
In the event of a change of control of the Company, employee share 
options granted under the Option Scheme 2010 will either accelerate 
vesting, will be rolled over to the acquiring company’s shares or will 
lapse, depending on the circumstances of the change. Further details 
are provided in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) 
because of a takeover bid.
Power of Directors to issue or buy back shares
The Directors’ existing authorities to allot and grant rights over the 
unissued share capital, to allot and grant rights over the unissued 
share capital for cash without first making a pro rata offer to all existing 
shareholders and to make market purchases of shares in the issued 
share capital of the Company are due to expire at the upcoming AGM. 
Resolutions will be put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM of the 
Company to renew previous authorities granted.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 42
Corporate Governance
Directors’ report continued
Registered number 1072032 Information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts
As part of our requirements under the FCA Listing Rules (LR), for the purposes of LR 9.8.4 R the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R 
can be found in the following locations in this Annual Report:
LR 9.8.4 R Topic Location in Annual Report
(1) Interest capitalised Not applicable
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable
(7) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Page 78
(8) Item (7) in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable
(9) Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
(10) Contracts of significance Page 41
(11) Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Group’s auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are listed on pages 24 and 25. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors and of the Group’s auditor, each of these Directors confirms that:
 • to the best of each Director’ s knowledge and belief, there is no information (that is, information needed by the Group’ s auditor in connection with 
preparing their report) of which the Group’ s auditor is unaware; and
 • each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Jonathan Cathie
Company Secretary
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 43
Corporate Governance Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and 
have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting 
Requirements and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework and applicable law. Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company 
and of the profit or loss for the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 • state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 • prepare a strategic report, directors’ report and directors’ 
remuneration report which comply with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy.
Website publication
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report 
and the financial statements are made available on a website. 
Financial statements are published on the Company’s website in 
accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may 
vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility of the 
Directors. The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the 
ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Directors’ responsibilities pursuant to DTR 4
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
 • the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit and loss of the Group; and
 • the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the financial position of the Group 
and the Parent Company, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 44
Corporate Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
 • The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and Parent Company’ s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 • The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 • The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
 • The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements of Gresham Technologies plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash 
flows, the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of 
changes in equity and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) including Financial Reporting Standard 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” .
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 44, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and 
overview of the scope of our audit
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the 
group and its environment, including the group’s system of internal 
control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial 
statements at the group level. 
We set out below the risks that had the greatest impact on our audit 
strategy and scope. The Audit Committee’s consideration of these matters 
is set out in the audit committee report commencing on page 29:
Development costs
Risk Response
As detailed in the accounting policies, development costs 
are recognised as an intangible asset if specific criteria have been 
met. Upon completion of development, the costs are amortised to 
the income statement over a period ranging from six to 20 years. 
Both the initial conclusion of whether development costs have met 
the criteria for capitalisation including estimates of the technical 
and commercial viability of the asset created, and the period of 
amortisation to the income statement require management judgement 
and therefore have an inherent risk of management override.
We reviewed the Group’s accounting policy in this area to ensure that it was 
in accordance with International Accounting Standard 38. We agreed a 
sample of capitalised costs to underlying supporting documentation and 
checked that the five criteria for capitalisation, as required by the standard, 
had been met. This included discussing the technical feasibility of projects 
with the development team, as well as obtaining evidence of future 
economic benefits. Furthermore, we specifically reviewed costs capitalised 
as enhancements to software available for sale, ensured that the 
enhancements did not supersede existing development costs and 
determined whether such enhancements met each of the five criteria for 
capitalisation under the standard. 
In respect of enhancements released to the market during the year, we 
inspected evidence of when the development projects were first available 
for sale by reference to communication with customers and prospective 
customers, board minutes and market announcements. We performed our 
own calculation of amortisation charges based on these dates and 
compared this with management’s own calculations. We challenged the 
amortisation rates used by management against external benchmarking 
reports of companies operating in the sector, together with internal 
benchmarking based on legacy software.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 45
Financial Statements
Independent auditor’s report Goodwill and intangible asset impairment risk
Risk Response
As detailed in the accounting policies, goodwill and capitalised 
development costs during development are tested for impairment 
at least annually. Furthermore, once available for use, capitalised 
development costs are tested for impairment where an indicator 
of impairment arises. Management’s review found no evidence of 
impairment in the Clareti or other cash generating units. This risk is 
considered significant due to the level of judgement involved and 
the opportunity for management bias within the impairment model 
assumptions.
We performed a review of the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets and 
examined for indicators of impairment. We also reviewed impairment 
reviews prepared by management, specifically reviewing the integrity of 
management’s value in use model and, with the assistance of our valuation 
specialists, we challenged the key inputs; those being forecast growth rates, 
operating cash flows and the discount rate. Our audit procedures for the 
review of operating cash flows included, amongst others, comparing the 
forecast to recent financial performance and budgets approved by the 
Board. Cash flows forecast for development projects were assessed for 
reasonableness against known sales pipeline opportunities. We also 
performed our own sensitivity analysis upon the key valuation inputs.
Revenue and profit recognition
Risk Response
As detailed in the accounting policies, the Group earns revenue 
from sale of software licenses, rendering of services, subscriptions 
and maintenance and solution sales. Management exercise judgement 
in their assessment of the ultimate profitability of contracts. This relates 
to the estimated stage of completion of service contracts and the 
unbundling of multi-element solution sales, both of which drive the 
recognition of revenue and profit and so present a revenue 
recognition risk.
We reviewed in detail the revenue recognition principles applied to 
the significant new contracts written and performed during the year and 
ensured that the revenue recognition policies were in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and industry standard. The 
relevant IFRS are International Accounting Standard 18 Revenue and 
International Accounting Standard 11 Construction Contracts. 
We inspected particularly solution sales and assessed the appropriateness 
of unbundling revenue into separate components along with the fair value 
of the consideration attributed to each component. We noted two instances 
during the financial year in which Management exercised significant judgement 
in estimating the fair value of constituent elements of a solution, the substance 
of which were considered to differ from the legal form. The total impact of this 
was to defer revenues and profits of £516,000. We assessed this judgement 
through benchmarking with reference to historic contracts executed by 
the Group and external sources in relation to the sector.
We agreed a sample of sales and related costs of sales to supporting 
contracts and other documentation, including user acceptance evidence 
and statements of works.
Acquisition accounting
Risk Response
As detailed in the judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty within the accounting policies, the Group undertook 
an acquisition during the financial year. Consequently Management 
had to exercise judgement in considering the fair value of both the 
consideration, which contained a contingent element, and the 
assets and liabilities acquired.
Management recognised on acquisition separately identifiable 
intangible assets in respect of software and customer relationships, 
exercising judgement in estimating the fair value for each. A third 
party specialist was commissioned by Management to assist with 
the valuation.
The provision for contingent consideration is based upon 
estimates, at the date of acquisition, of the future performance 
of the acquired entity.
In respect of the fair value of the consideration, we reviewed 
Management’s calculation with reference to the Sale and Purchase 
agreement; assessing the estimate of contingent consideration against 
forecasts and current performance and verifying the initial cash payment.
We ensured that the acquisition accounting exercise had been carried 
out in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 3, 
Business Combinations, and reviewed Management’s estimates in respect 
of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In particular, we assessed 
the valuation of the intangible assets that were considered separately 
identifiable on acquisition; testing the key inputs and assumptions in the 
valuation models and, with the assistance of our valuations specialists, 
reviewing the methodology deployed. We also considered the completeness 
of the separately identifiable intangible assets with reference to our 
understanding of the business and key motivations for the transaction.
The Group audit team, based in the UK, performed the audits of the key reporting components in the UK and North America. The audits of the 
Asia Pacific region were performed by component auditors, based in Australia. Detailed instructions were issued and discussed with the component 
auditors, and these covered the significant risks (including the Group risks of material misstatement described above) that should be addressed 
by the audit team. The group audit team was actively involved in directing the audit strategy of the Asia Pacific audit, reviewed in detail the findings 
and considered the impact of these upon the Group audit opinion.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 46
Financial Statements
Independent auditor’s report continued
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and overview of the scope of our audit continued Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing 
our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements. For planning, 
we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, 
including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of 
reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements. 
Importantly, misstatements below this level will not necessarily be 
evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of 
identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their 
occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements.
We determined planning materiality for the financial statements as a 
whole to be £170,000. In determining this, we based our assessment on 
a level of 1% of anticipated consolidated revenue which we believe is a 
key benchmark used by the Group in assessing financial performance. 
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of 
the Group’s control environment, our judgement is that performance 
materiality for the financial statements should be 75% of planning 
materiality, namely £128,000. Our objective in adopting this approach is 
to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not 
exceed our planning materiality of £170,000 for the financial statements 
as a whole. Materiality levels used for each key component ranged from 
£90,000 to £130,000. Materiality levels are not significantly different 
from those applied in the previous year. We agreed with the audit 
committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in 
excess of £7 ,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our 
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 • the information given in the strategic report and directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
 • the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in 
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Statement regarding the directors’ assessment of the principal 
risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 • the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 • the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 • the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to 
the entity’ s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 • the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the entity , over what period they have done so 
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement 
as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
 • The strategic report and director’s report; and
 • the information about internal control and risk management systems 
in relation to financial reporting processes and share capital structures, 
given in compliance with rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 of the FCA Rules.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and 
its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified 
material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, information in the Report and Accounts is:
 • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
 • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
 • is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and 
the Directors’ statement that they consider the Report and Accounts is 
fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Report and 
Accounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 • the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate 
governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for review 
by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10 R(2). The Listing 
Rules also require that we review the directors’ statements set out on 
page 41 regarding going concern and longer term viability.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Kim Hayward (senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP , statutory auditor
Southampton
United Kingdom
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 47
Financial Statements Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Revenue 3,4 17,156 14,842
Cost of sales (2,984) (2,822)
Gross profit 14,172 12,020
Adjusted administrative expenses (11,488) (10,200)
Adjusted operating profit 2,684 1,820 
Adjusting administrative items:
Exceptional items 4 (275) (149)
Amortisation on acquired intangibles 13 (108) —
Share based payments 22 (117) (110)
(500) (259)
Total administrative expenses (11,988) (10,459)
Statutory operating profit 4,5 2,184 1,561
Finance revenue 3,8 22 21
Finance costs 8 — —
Profit before taxation 2,206 1,582
Taxation 9 399 368
Attributable to owners of the Parent 2 2,605 1,950
Earnings per share
Statutory
Basic earnings per share - pence 10 4.06 3.08
Diluted earnings per share - pence 10 3.92 2.98
Adjusted
Basic earnings per share - pence 10 4.83 3.49
Diluted earnings per share - pence 10 4.67 3.38
All activities during the year were continuing.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 48
Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement 31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Attributable to the owners of the Parent 2,605 1,950
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will or may be re-classified into profit or loss - exchange differences 86 (27)
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) 86 (27)
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,691 1,923
The tax effect of exchange differences recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is a debit of £17 ,000 
(2015: credit of £5,000). 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 49
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 656 499 
Intangible assets 13 18,794 10,648 
Deferred tax assets 9 1,151 239 
20,601 11,386 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 4,759 3,472 
Income tax receivable 16 2 892 
Cash and cash equivalents 17 7,206 4,666 
11,967 9,030 
Total assets 32,568 20,416 
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent
Called up equity share capital 21 3,340 3,164 
Share premium account 23 3,242 9 
Other reserves 23 313 313 
Foreign currency translation reserve 23 21 (65)
Retained earnings 23 14,235 11,513 
Total equity attributable to owners of the Parent 23 21,151 14,934 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred income 18 267 53 
Provisions 18 44 24 
Deferred tax liability 9 680 —
Contingent consideration 27 378 —
1,369 77 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 9,060 5,294 
Financial liabilities 18 71 3 
Income tax payable 18 139 89 
Provisions 18 20 19 
Contingent consideration 27 758 —
10,048 5,405 
Total liabilities 11,417 5,482 
Total equity and liabilities 32,568 20,416 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 13 March 2017 .
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
13 March 2017 13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 50
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of financial position Notes
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Currency
translation
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2015 3,162 16,522 313 (38) (7,069) 12,890 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 1,950 1,950 
Other comprehensive expense — — — (27) — (27)
Total comprehensive income — — — (27) 1,950 1,923 
Share premium cancellation — (16,522) — — 16,522 —
Exercise of share options 21 2 9 — — — 11 
Share-based payment expense 22 — — — — 110 110 
At 31 December 2015 3,164 9 313 (65) 11,513 14,934 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 2,605 2,605 
Other comprehensive income — — — 86 — 86 
Total comprehensive income — — — 86 2,605 2,691 
Share issue proceeds 21 158 3,163 — — — 3,321 
Share transaction costs 21 — (101) — — — (101)
Exercise of share options 21 18 171 — — — 189 
Share-based payment expense 22 — — — — 117 117 
At 31 December 2016 3,340 3,242 313 21 14,235 21,151 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 51
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Cashflows from operating activities
Profit after taxation 2,605 1,582 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 5 1,355 976 
Share-based payment expense 22 117 110 
Increase in trade and other receivables (737) (217)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2,551 (277)
Movement in deferred tax provisions 1 —
Movement in provisions  21 7 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 32 —
Net finance income 8 (22) (21)
Cash inflow from operations 5,923 2,160 
Net income taxes received 216 1,035 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,139 3,195 
Cashflows from investing activities 
Interest received 8 22 21 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (508) (217)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 —
Net payments to acquire subsidiary undertaking 27 (3,014) —
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets 13 (3,779) (3,014)
Net cash used in investing activities (7,266) (3,210)
Cashflows from financing activities 
Interest paid — —
Share issue proceeds 21 3,510 —
Share issue transaction costs 21 (101) 11 
Net cash generated from financing activities 3,409 11 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,282 (4)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,666 4,707 
Exchange adjustments 258 (37)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 7,206 4,666 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 52
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of cashflow 1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs
Gresham Technologies plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are 
traded as a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year, the Company changed its name from Gresham Computing plc to Gresham Technologies plc as part of its strategic plan going forward.
The financial statements of Gresham Technologies plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised 
for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2017 and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Board’s behalf by 
Mr I Manocha and Mr R Grubb. 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out below.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and applied in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2016. 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for property provisions and derivative financial instruments 
which have been measured at fair value.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. For the year ended 
31 December 2016, the Company recorded a retained profit of £665,000 (2015: loss of £212,000).
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. However, the 
nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition, management are required to make judgements regarding the timing 
and amount of future cash flows applicable to the businesses being acquired, discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Such judgements 
are based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates and expected changes to 
selling prices and operating costs. Management estimates the appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses being acquired.
Capitalised development costs
Development costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets and costs that meet the qualifying criteria are capitalised and 
systematically amortised over the useful economic life of the intangible asset. Determining whether development costs qualify for capitalisation 
as intangible assets requires judgement, including estimates of the technical and commercial viability of the asset created and its applicable useful 
economic life. These estimates are continually reviewed and updated based on past experience and reviews of competitor products available in 
the market.
The capitalised development cost is disclosed in note 13 and the impairment review performed is disclosed in note 14.
Impairment reviews
The Group performs impairment reviews at the reporting period end to identify any intangible assets that have a carrying value that is in excess 
of its recoverable value. Determining the recoverability of an intangible asset requires judgement in both the methodology applied and the key 
variables within that methodology. Where it is determined that an intangible asset is impaired, its carrying value will be reduced to its recoverable 
value with the difference recorded as an impairment charge in the income statement.
The intangible asset impairment reviews are disclosed in note 14.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 53
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue and the associated profit are recognised from sale of software licenses, rendering of services, subscriptions and maintenance and 
solution sales. Whilst in most cases performance obligations clearly follow the commercial and contractual arrangement we have agreed with the 
customer, in some cases the revenue streams are combined as within an overall commercial arrangement. Such bundling requires judgement to 
assess performance obligations associated with each revenue stream and further judgement as to when and how such performance obligations 
have been discharged in order to recognise the associated revenue. The estimation of the stage of completion, along with the unbundling of 
multi-element solution sales, represents a risk of incorrect revenue recognition.
In considering the unbundling of multi-element solutions, instances may arise whereby the substance of the performance obligations differs from 
the legal form of the contract. In such circumstances judgement is required to assess the fair value of the constituent elements and recognise 
revenue accordingly.
Revenue recognised in the period is disclosed in note 3, with further analysis provided in note 4.
Useful economic life of capitalised development costs
The assessment of the useful economic life of capitalised development costs is estimated by management based on past experience and reviews 
of competitor products available in the market.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome. Those judgements 
include the forecasting of a number of different outcomes against the performance targets and estimating a probability and risk of each outcome 
before arriving at a risk weighted value of contingent consideration.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Gresham Technologies plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) 
drawn up to 31 December each year. 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date. 
Investees are classified as subsidiaries where the company has control, which is achieved where the company has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an investee entity, exposure to variable returns from the investee and the ability to use its power to affect those 
variable returns. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the acquisition method. In the statement of financial 
position, the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at acquisition date. The results of acquired 
entities are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date at which control is obtained and are deconsolidated 
from the date control ceases.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying an approximation of the spot exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate 
of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date. All differences are taken to the income statement, in the instance where the 
differences on monetary assets and liabilities form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations, they are moved to the statement 
of other comprehensive income on consolidation and held in a separate component of equity until the disposal of the net investment, 
at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date. 
Income and expenses are translated at weighted average exchange rates for the year. The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a 
separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular 
foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the 
initial transactions, on consolidation, all assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries who report in a different functional currency are retranslated 
using the closing rate.
On transition to IFRS from 1 January 2004, the exemption available under IFRS 1 was taken to start the currency translation reserve at nil.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 54
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Goodwill
Business combinations on or after 1 January 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of 
the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised 
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entity’s 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised. 
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, 
at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at geographical 
segment level or statutory company level as the case may be. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying 
amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, 
or of an operation within it. Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves even if the related 
investment becomes impaired or the business is disposed of.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and 
any accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangible assets are subject to the same recognition tests as development costs and if 
met, they are capitalised.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that they 
may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each 
financial year end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation 
expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement in the expense category consistent with the function of the 
intangible asset.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Purchased intangibles with finite lives, including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights, are capitalised at 
cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life of these intangible assets ranges between 
two and ten years depending on their nature. Amortisation charges in respect of intangible assets are included in administrative expenses.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an intangible asset when the Group 
can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and 
its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the 
ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Capitalised product development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Product development costs 
that have been capitalised are amortised from the time the product or related enhancement becomes available for use as part of a version release 
issued to customers on a straight-line basis over six to 20 years depending on the useful economic life of the asset assessed. During the period of 
development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the aggregate 
amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset 
capable of operating as intended. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
 • Fixtures and fittings - over the term of the underlying property lease. 
 • Plant and equipment - over lives ranging between one and ten years to write down the assets to their residual value based on current prices for an 
asset of the age the plant and equipment is expected to be at the end of its useful life. 
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually 
and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 55
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Leases
Group as a lessee
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges 
in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under finance leases are 
depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals 
payable are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor
Where the Group has spare capacity in offices held under operating leases and where the head lease permits, the Group sublets space acting in 
a lessor capacity. The rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and shown separately from the Group’s full obligation 
under the head operating lease.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount 
is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or Groups of assets. Where the carrying amount 
of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used 
incorporating industry standard valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators. Impairment losses on continuing operations are 
recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer 
exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. 
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. Impairment charges on goodwill are considered permanent 
and cannot be reversed. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. After such a reversal the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining 
useful life.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, expected 
future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance policy, the reimbursement is recognised 
as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any 
reimbursement. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as: financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held-to maturity investments; or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Group 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each 
financial year end. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial 
assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded 
derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it. The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair 
value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract. Reassessment only 
occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cashflows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell 
the asset. Regular way transactions require delivery of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the market 
place. The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows:
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify 
as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale. Such assets are initially valued at fair 
value and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised in 
the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 56
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Financial assets continued
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are 
classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or as financial guarantee contracts. Assets are carried in the statement 
of financial position at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available for sale by the Directors, taking into account 
the stage of any marketing or sales activity to promote an end sale. After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value 
with gains or losses being recognised within the Statement of Comprehensive Income until the investment is derecognised or until the investment 
is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cashflows (excluding future credit losses that have 
not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in administration costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money 
is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover 
balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying 
amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts represent revenue recognised to date less amounts invoiced to clients. Full provision is made for known 
or anticipated project losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cashflow, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates 
and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
R&D tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis and recorded as a credit in the taxation line of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
 • where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
 • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 • deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability 
is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 57
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Income taxes continued
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the 
same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to other 
comprehensive income or directly to equity. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, 
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. 
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Pensions
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Revenue recognition
Revenue, comprising sales of products and services to third parties, is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, 
rebates, VAT and other sales taxes. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Software licences
Revenue on software licences is recognised when all of the following criteria are met:
 • persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, such as a signed contract or purchase order;
 • delivery has occurred and no future elements to be delivered are essential to the functionality of the delivered element;
 • the fee is fixed or determinable; and 
 • collectability is probable.
Rendering of services
Revenue and profits from the provision of professional services, such as implementation, development, training and consultancy, are recognised 
on a percentage-of-completion basis, as costs incurred relate to total costs for the contract, when the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. 
Determining whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably requires management to exercise judgement, whilst calculation of the contract’s 
profit requires estimates of the total contract costs to completion. Cost estimates and judgements are continually reviewed and updated as 
determined by events or circumstances.
Subscriptions and maintenance
Revenue from subscription and maintenance services is recognised rateably over the period of the contract.
Solution sales
Contracts for the delivery of solutions with multiple elements, typically involving software licences, rendering of services, subscriptions, maintenance 
and hardware, are unbundled where possible and revenue is recognised based on the accounting policy applicable to each constituent part.
Where objective unbundling of a solution is not possible, revenue is recognised as that proportion of the total contract value which costs incurred 
to date bear to total expected costs for that contract. Profit is recognised on such contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable 
certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses. 
Interest income
Interest income is recognised as finance revenue as interest accrues using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
Rental income
Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 58
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
Pre-contract costs/bid costs
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed preferred bidder. Preferred bidder status provides sufficient confidence 
that the conclusion of the contract is probable and the outcome can be reliably measured and is expected to generate sufficient net cash inflows 
to enable recovery. Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder are capitalised onto the balance sheet under 
prepayments and accrued income. The prepayment is expensed to the income statement over the period of the contract. Costs, which have 
been expensed, are not subsequently reinstated when a contract award is achieved.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised 
as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. 
Fair value of awards with a market condition-based performance target is determined by an external valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of the Company (market conditions).
Fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the Black Scholes pricing model.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which 
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a 
corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based 
on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder 
of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award 
and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the 
income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement 
date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The share-based payment expense is recognised as a staff cost and the associated credit entry is made against equity. 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled 
awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature 
or amount.
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following new standards have been adopted and are effective for the current year:
Standard or interpretation Title Effective from
IFRS 5 Amendments resulting from the September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2016
IFRS 10, IAS 28 and IFRS 12 Applying the consolidation exception (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Amendments 1 January 2016
IAS 1 Amendments resulting from the disclosure initiative 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016
IAS 27 Amendments reinstating the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates in an entity’s separate financial statements 1 January 2016
IAS 34 Amendments resulting from the September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2016
IAS 38 Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016
The adoption of these pronouncements has not impacted the classification or measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities, nor has it resulted 
in any additional disclosures.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 59
Financial Statements 2. Accounting policies continued
New standards and interpretations not applied
IASB and IFRIC have issued the following relevant standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements:
Standard or interpretation Title Effective from
IFRS 2 Amendments the classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general 
hedge accounting and derecognition
1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue recognition – Original issue 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases – Original issue 1 January 2019
IAS 7 Amendments resulting from the disclosure initiative 1 January 2017
IAS 12 Amendments regarding the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 1 January 2017
IFRIC 22 Original issue 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ replaces IAS 39. The standard is effective for the year ending 31 December 2018 and will impact the classification 
and measurement of financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures. Whilst an assessment of the new standard is ongoing, 
the changes to recognition and measurement of financial instruments and changes to hedge accounting rules are not currently considered likely 
to have any major impact on the Group’s current accounting treatment or hedging activities.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (effective for the year ending 31 December 2018) replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ , IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ 
and related interpretations. The standard introduces a single, five-step revenue recognition model that is based upon the principle that revenue is 
recognised at the point that control of goods or services is transferred to the customer. The standard also updates revenue disclosure requirements. 
An assessment of this new standard is currently ongoing.
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective for the year ending 31 December 2019) will require all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet. The new standard 
brings most leases on-balance sheet for lessees under a single model, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases. IFRS 16 
supersedes IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and related interpretations. The Group has a number of operating lease arrangements and will consider the financial 
impact of IFRS 16 in due course but in broad terms the impact will be to recognise a lease liability and corresponding asset for the operating 
lease commitments.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application. Assessment is currently being undertaken and impact is currently unknown.
The effective dates stated here are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards and interpretations. As the Group prepares its financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been 
endorsed for use in the EU via the EU endorsement mechanism. In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given 
in the original standard or interpretation, but the need for endorsement restricts the Group’s discretion to early adopt standards.
3. Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Rendering of services 17,156 14,842
Finance revenue 22 21
17 ,178 14,863
4. Segment information
The segmental disclosures reflect the analysis presented on a monthly basis to the chief operating decision maker of the business, the Chief Executive 
and the Board of Directors. 
In addition, split of revenues and non-current assets by the UK and overseas have been included as they are specifically required by IFRS 8 
Operating Segments.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group re-evaluated the internal presentation of its operating segments to more appropriately 
aggregate the differing sets of risks that the Group’s businesses face. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 60
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 4. Segment information continued
For management purposes, the Group is organised into the following reportable segments:
 • Clareti Solutions – supply of solutions predominantly to the finance and banking markets across Asia Pacific, EMEA and North America. These 
solutions include:
 • Clareti T ransaction Control: a high performance enterprise data control solution for data validation and real-time transaction matching and reconciliation.
 • Clareti Accounts Receivable Management: a receivables management application with automated matching, reconciliation and allocation to 
reduce the order-to-cash cycle.
 • Clareti 24 Integration Objects: integration software to enable rapid adoption of financial message standards and transform complex data types. 
 • Clareti Loan Control: a front-to-back loan servicing solution that enables effective and auditable management of simple and complex 
loan portfolios. 
 • Other Solutions – supply of a range of well-established solutions to enterprise-level customers in a variety of end markets.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue, 
segment expense and segment result include transfers between business segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
Other
Year ended 31 December 2016 Notes
Clareti
Solutions
£’000
Solutions
£’000
Contracting
Services
£’000
Adjustments,
central and
eliminations
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue
External customer 7,491 6,901 2,764 — 17,156 
Inter-segment — — — — — 
Total revenue 3 7,491 6,901 2,764 — 17,156 
Cost of sales (566) (2,070) (675) — (3,311)
Cost of sales capitalised as intangible 
asset 327 — — — 327 
Gross profit 7,252 4,831 2,089 — 14,172 
97% 70% 76% — 83%
Contracting administrative expenses — — (1,678) — (1,678)
Gross profit after contracting fully costed 7,252 4,831 411 — 12,494 
97% 70% 15% — 73%
Adjusted administrative expenses — — — (9,810) (9,810)
Adjusted operating profit 7,252 4,831 411 (9,810) 2,684 
Adjusting items:    
Exceptional costs 4 — — — (275) (275)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 13 — — — (108) (108)
Share based payments 22 — — — (117) (117)
Statutory administrative expenses — — — (500) (500)
Statutory operating profit 7,252 4,831 411 (10,310) 2,184 
Interest revenue 8 22 
Interest expense —
Profit before taxation 2,206 
Taxation 9 399 
Profit after taxation 2,605 
Segment assets 32,568 
Segment liabilities (11,417)
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 61
Financial Statements 4. Segment information continued
Other
Year ended 31 December 2015 Notes
Clareti
Solutions
£’000
Solutions
£’000
Contracting
Services
£’000
Adjustments,
central and
eliminations
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue
External customer 5,270 7,070 2,502 — 14,842 
Inter-segment — — — — — 
Total revenue 3 5,270 7,070 2,502 — 14,842 
Cost of sales (172) (1,977) (673) — (2,822)
Gross profit 5,098 5,093 1,829 — 12,020 
97% 72% 73% — 81%
Contracting administrative expenses — — (1,441) — (1,441)
Gross profit after Contracting fully costed 5,098 5,093 388 — 10,579
97% 72% 16% — 71%
Adjusted administrative expenses — — — (8,759) (8,759)
Adjusted operating profit 5,098 5,093 388 (8,759) 1,820 
Adjusting items:    
Exceptional costs 4 — — — (149) (149)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 13 — — — — — 
Share based payments 22 — — — (110) (110)
Statutory administrative expenses — — — (259) (259)
Statutory operating profit 5,098 5,093 388 (9,018) 1,561 
Interest revenue 8   21 
Interest expense —
Profit before taxation 1,582 
Taxation 9 368 
Profit after taxation 1,950 
Segment assets 20,416 
Segment liabilities (5,482)
Administrative expenses, segment assets and segment liabilities are shared across the Group and cannot be allocated to operating segments.
The Group has customer relationships with two banking customers which are both considered by the Directors to be individually significant 
relationships; revenue from these relationships both individually exceeded 10% of the Group’s revenue, with one customer totalling £3.0m for the 
year and the other customer totalling £4.4m (this revenue includes the low margin contracting revenue of £2.8m noted above). The revenues from 
these two customers fall predominantly within the Other Solutions segment.
Exceptional items
 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Exceptionals
Staff costs (recruitment and termination costs) 124 149
Property (office closures) 32 —
Acquisition costs 119 —
275 149
In H1 2016, the Group completed its planned office closures, which incurred a number of one-off costs relating to the termination of property leases 
and the associated costs to repair and property damage together with costs for recruitment of key personnel. In H2 2016 the Group acquired the 
company C24 Technologies Limited in October 2016 which resulted in further one-off costs being incurred. In aggregate, these one-off costs 
totalled £275,000 (2015: £149,000). 2015 costs related to CEO succession costs and a review of the group marketing and operational activities, 
which incurred a number of one-off costs.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 62
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 4. Segment information continued
Geographic information
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Revenues from external customers (by destination)
EMEA 333 385
North America 1,405 1,340 
UK 9,310 7,371
Australia 4,683 4,118
Asia Pacific 1,425 1,628
17,156 14,842
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Non-current assets
UK 18,646 10,304
North America 37 104
Asia Pacific 767 739
19,450 11,147
Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets.
EMEA includes revenue from external customers located primarily in the UK, Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
Asia Pacific includes revenue from external customers located primarily in Australia, Malaysia and Singapore.
5. Group trading profit 
The Group trading profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
Notes
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Research and development costs written off 144 128 
Amortisation of deferred development costs recognised in administration expenses 13 741 531 
Total research and development costs 885 659 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 351 322 
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding development costs) 13 263 123 
Total depreciation, impairment and amortisation expense 614 445 
Net foreign currency differences - gains 41 25 
Operating lease payments
Minimum lease payments 423 524 
Sublease income (31) (129)
392 395 
6. Auditor’s remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Audit fees
Audit of the Group financial statements 20 20 
Other fees to the auditor – auditing the accounts of subsidiaries 47 40 
67 60 
Non-audit fees
Corporate taxation services 20 54 
Other-Acquisition advice 3 17 
23 71 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 63
Financial Statements 7 . Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
(a) Staff and Director costs 
31 December 2016
Income
statement
£’000
Development
capitalised
£’000
Total excluding 
contracting
£’000
Contracting 
costs expensed
£’000
Total
£’000
Wages and salaries 5,460 2,513 7,973 1,373 9,346 
Social security costs 548 267 815 67 882 
Other pension costs 204 83 287 130 417 
6,212 2,863 9,075 1,570 10,645 
31 December 2015
Income
statement
£’000
Development
capitalised
£’000
Total excluding 
contracting
£’000
Contracting 
costs expensed
£’000
Total
£’000
Wages and salaries 5,108  1,972 7 ,080 1,141 8,221 
Social security costs 478  245 723 55 778 
Other pension costs 176  76 252 108 360 
5,762  2,293 8,055 1,304 9,359 
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense of share-based payments of £117 ,000 (2015: £110,000) all of which arises from transactions 
accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
2016 2015
Management 8 9
Sales and administration 24 21
Technical 85 81
Total Gresham 117 111
GCIS 14 12
(b) Directors’ emoluments
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Directors’ emoluments
Remuneration 524 457
Social security costs 68 59
Pension 18 16
Share-based payments 75 36
685 568
Number of Directors accruing benefits under defined contribution schemes 2 2
8. Finance revenue and costs
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Finance revenue
Bank interest receivable 22 21
Total finance revenue 22 21
Finance costs
Other bank charges — —
Total finance costs — —
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 64
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 9. Taxation
(a) Tax on loss on ordinary activities
Tax credited in the income statement
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Current income tax
Overseas tax charge/(credit) – adjustment to previous years 22 (21)
Overseas tax charge - current year 140 139 
UK corporation tax charge – adjustment to previous years 166 98 
UK corporation tax credit – current year — (892)
Total current income tax 328 (676)
Deferred income tax
(Recognition)/reversal of deferred tax asset (863) 322 
Tax rate change adjustments 136 (14)
Total deferred income tax (727) 308 
Total credit in the income statement (399) (368)
For the year ended 2015 the group surrendered tax losses in a UK company in return for an R&D tax credit. 
Given the group and UK companies are profitable, rather than surrendering these losses going forward they are being used to directly offset 
UK tax liabilities.
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge 
The tax credit in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% (2015: 20.3%). The differences 
are reconciled below:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Profit before taxation 2,206 1,582 
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.0% / 20.3% 441 321 
Income/expenses not deductible/(taxable) for tax purposes 43 (31)
Differences in tax rates 85 (7)
Overseas tax credit - adjustment to previous years 22 (21)
R&D tax credit - previous year 122 98 
R&D tax credit - current year — (892)
Losses surrendered for R&D tax credit - current year — 1,246 
R&D enhanced relief (1,604) (692)
Movement in unrecognised losses carried forward (1,307) 129 
Movement in unrecognised temporary differences 2,200 (486)
Movement in unrecognised fixed asset temporary differences 15 5 
Temporary difference on share-based payments (552) (24)
Prior year adjustments on recognised deferred tax — —
Tax rate change adjustments 136 (14)
Total tax credit reported in the income statement (399) (368)
(c) Unrecognised tax losses
The Group has tax losses that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose as analysed 
in (e) below. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in 
the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss making for some time.
The tax effect of exchange differences recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is a debit of £17 ,000 
(2015: credit of £5,000).
(d) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 31 December 2016, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2015: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings 
of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries as the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate 
to £nil (2015: £nil).
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 65
Financial Statements 9. Taxation continued
(e) Deferred tax 
Recognised deferred tax
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
1 January 239 547
Movement in the period – Losses (2,339) (376) 
– Share based payments timing differences (552) 40
– Other timing differences 3,884 6
– Fixed asset timing differences (145) 8
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 200 —
Impact of change in tax rate (136) 14
31 December  1,151 239
Comprising:
Temporary differences (1,231) 42
Tax losses 2,382 197
31 December 1,151 239
A deferred tax credit of £1,048,000 has been recognised in the year in respect of tax losses and capital allowances in excess of depreciation 
and other temporary differences.
Deferred tax liability
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Intangible asset acquired on acquisition 680 —
Comprising:
1 January — —
Acquisition of intangibles in subsidiaries 680 —
31 December 680 —
Unrecognised potential deferred tax assets
The deferred tax not recognised in the Group Statement of Financial Position is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Temporary differences 159 (1,421)
Tax losses 1,009 2,150
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 1,168 729
Gross temporary differences unrecognised 530 (7,169)
Gross tax losses unrecognised 3,750 10,173
Gross temporary timing differences unrecognised 4,280 3,004
Future tax rates
The main rate of corporation tax for UK companies reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. Finance Bill 2015, which was substantively enacted 
on 26 October 2015, announced further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax. The rate will reduce to 19% from 1 April 2017 and by a further 
1% to 18% from 1 April 2020. The Finance Act 2016 was approved on 15 September 2016. The Act reduces the main rate of corporation tax to 
17% from 1 April 2020 (superseding the 18% rate effective from that date introduced in Finance (No.2) Act 2015.
The Group’s recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets in the UK, Australian and US subsidiaries have been shown at the rates in the 
following table, being the substantively enacted rates in these countries.
2016 2015
UK 17%/20% 18%/20%
Australia 30% 30%
US 40% 40%
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 66
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 10. Earnings per share
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit or loss for the year attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion 
of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares except when such dilutive instruments would reduce the loss per share.
The following reflects the earnings and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
31 December
2016
£’000
 31 December
2015
£’000
Basic weighted average number of shares 64,223,010 63,238,526
Dilutive potential ordinary shares — —
Employee share options – weighted (note 22) 2,198,808 2,178,202
Diluted weighted average number of shares 66,421,818 64,223,010 
Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Adjusted earnings attributable to owners of the parent 3,105 2,209
Adjusting items:
Exceptional items 4 (275) (149)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 13 (108) —
Share based payments 22 (117) (110)
Statutory earnings attributable to owners of the Parent 2,605 1,950 
Earnings per share
Statutory
Basic earnings per share – pence 4.06 3.08
Diluted earnings per share – pence 3.92 2.98
Adjusted
Basic earnings per share – pence 4.83 3.49
Diluted earnings per share – pence 4.67 3.38
Adjusted EBITDA earnings
Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Adjusted EBITDA 
Profit before tax 2,206 1,582
Adjusting items:
Exceptional items 4 275 149
Amortisation on intangibles 13 1,004 654 
Depreciation on PPE (exc Development) 12 224 225
Loss on disposal 32 —
Share based payments 22 117 110
Interest received 3,8 (22) (21)
Adjusted EBITDA 3,836 2,699
During the year ended 31 December 2016, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Plans were exercised and the Group issued 
350,000 (2015: 37 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial 
statements for further details.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion 
of this Annual Report.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 67
Financial Statements 11. Dividends paid and proposed
No dividends were declared or paid during the year and no dividends will be proposed for approval at the AGM (2015: none).
12. Property, plant and equipment
31 December 2016
Fixtures and 
fittings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 583 841 1,424 
Additions 239 268 507
Additions acquired as part of business combination 1 — 1
Disposals (100) (99) (199)
Exchange adjustment 22 48 70 
At 31 December 745 1,058 1,803 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January (339) (586) (925)
Charge for year (141) (210) (351)
Disposals 81 92 173 
Exchange adjustment (10) (34) (44)
At 31 December (409) (738) (1,147)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 336 320 656 
At 1 January 244 255 499 
31 December 2015 
Fixtures and
fittings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 572 738 1,310 
Additions 93 124 217 
Disposals (33) (46) (79)
Exchange adjustment (49) 25 (24)
At 31 December 583 841 1,424 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January (234) (459) (693)
Charge for year (152) (170) (322)
Disposals 33 45 78 
Exchange adjustment 14 (2) 12 
At 31 December (339) (586) (925)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 244 255 499 
At 1 January 338 279 617 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 68
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 13. Intangible assets
31 December 2016
Development
costs
£’000
Patents and
licences
£’000
Separately identified intangibles 
on acquisition 
Goodwill
£’000
Total
£’000
Software 
£’000
Customer
relationships
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 15,112 1,673 — — 876 17,661 
Additions 3,690 89 — — — 3,779
Additions acquired as part 
of business combination — — 3,067 866 1,376 5,309
Disposals — (31) — — — (31)
Exchange adjustment 41 14 — — 77 132 
At 31 December 18,843 1,745 3,067 866 2,329 26,850 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January (5,506) (1,257) — — (250) (7 ,013)
Charge for year (741) (155) (79) (29) — (1,004)
Eliminated on disposal — 12 — — — 12 
Exchange adjustment (41) (10) — — — (51)
At 31 December (6,288) (1,410) (79) (29) (250) (8,056)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 12,555 335 2,988 837 2,079 18,794 
At 1 January 9,606 416 — — 626 10,648 
31 December 2015 
Development 
costs
£’000 
Patents and 
licences
£’000 
Separately identified intangibles 
on acquisition 
Goodwill
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Software
£’000 
Customer
relationships
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 12,201 1,568 — — 903 14,672 
Additions 2,911 103 — — — 3,014 
Exchange adjustment — 2 — — (27) (25)
At 31 December 15,112 1,673 — — 876 17,661 
Amortisation and impairment 
At 1 January (4,975) (1,134) — — (250) (6,359)
Charge for year (531) (123) — — — (654)
Exchange adjustment - - — — — —
At 31 December (5,506) (1,257) — — (250) (7,013)
Net carrying amount 
At 31 December 9,606 416 — — 626 10,648 
At 1 January 7,226 434 — — 653 8,313 
Development costs
Development costs are internally generated and are capitalised at cost. These intangible assets have been assessed as having a finite life and 
are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of six to twenty years. These assets are tested for impairment where an indicator 
of impairment arises and annually prior to them being made available for use. Development costs have a remaining life of sixteen years.
Patents and licences
Patents and licences are the third-party costs incurred in seeking and obtaining protection for certain of the Group’s products and services. 
These intangible assets have been assessed as having a finite life and are being amortised evenly over their useful economic life, to a maximum 
of ten years. Patents have a remaining life of three years and licences have a remaining life of one to ten years.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 69
Financial Statements 13. Intangible assets continued
Separately identified acquired intangibles 
Separately identified intangibles acquired through business combinations represent software and customer relationships which arose through the 
acquisition of C24 Technologies Ltd in October 2016.
Software is amortised over its useful economical life, which is deemed to be ten years.
Customer relationships acquired in the year are amortised over the useful economical life, which is deemed to be eight years.
Goodwill
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of our Asia Pacific real-time financial solutions business and C24 Technologies Ltd. It is assessed as having 
an indefinite life and is assessed for impairment at least annually. See note 27 .
14. Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to one individual cash-generating unit (“CGU”), the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, for impairment testing.
Carrying amount of goodwill
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Clareti Solutions CGU 1,224 626
Development costs (finite life)
Development costs are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis prior to being made available for use, or sooner where an indicator 
of impairment exists. The following table summarises the net book value of development costs:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Clareti Solutions CGU 12,555 9,606
Clareti Solutions cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of this CGU has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. To calculate this, cashflow projections are based 
on financial budgets approved by the Board for 2017 , which are extrapolated for five years, and extended beyond five years, which the Board considers 
appropriate given the long-term opportunities that exists in the Asia Pacific, EMEA and North American regions. The discount rate applied to cashflow 
projections is 15% (2015: 15%) and cashflows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate (2015: 2%) that is a prudent 
approximation to the long-term average growth rate for the region in which the CGU operates.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations
Key assumptions are made by management based on past experience taking into account external sources of information around gross margins, 
growth rates and discount rates for similar businesses.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to assumptions around:
 • operating cashflows, based on financial budgets for 2016 approved by the Board;
 • growth rates, based on internally estimated growth rates for the market and the business offerings; and
 • the discount rate, based on the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the Group.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
A change in our key assumption in respect to operating cashflows could cause the carrying value of the goodwill or development costs to exceed 
the recoverable amount, resulting in an impairment charge.
We are confident the assumptions in respect of operating cashflows remain appropriate. Where the operating cashflows incorporate products or 
solutions that will be sold in an existing known market past experience is used as a guide to the level of sales achievable, growth rates and associated 
margins. Where the operating cashflows relate to products or solutions that will be sold into a new or emerging market, past experience with similar 
products or solutions is combined with relevant information from external market sources, such as competitor pricing and discussions with potential 
customers, in arriving at the level of sales achievable, growth rates and associated margins.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 70
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 15. Investments
Details of Group undertakings
Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are as follows:
Name of subsidiary company Registered address
Holding
(shares)
Proportion of
voting rights and
shares held Nature of business
Gresham Computer Services Limited Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Financial Systems Limited Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
C24 Technologies Limited
(5)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pty Limited
(3)
Level 6, 1 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, Australia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Sdn Bhd
(1)
Level 7 , Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Malaysia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pte. Limited 138 Cecil Street, Cecil Court, Singapore Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Inc
(1,3)
40 Wall street, New York, USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Enterprise Storage Inc
(3)
40 Wall Street, New York, USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
GMS Loan Technologies Limited
(6)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 50% Software solutions
Gresham Consultancy Services Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Tech Limited
(2)(4)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Telecomputing Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Business Systems Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Cheerkeep Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
(1) held by a subsidiary undertaking 
(2) subsidiary exempt from UK audit under section 480a of the Companies Act 2006
(3) subsidiary has no requirement for a local statutory audit
(4) name changed from Gresham Technologies Limited on 16 November 2016
(5) acquired October 2016
(6) incorporated in December 2016, dormant until 1 January 2017
In December 2016 Gresham established a newly formed company GMS Loan Technologies Limited in partnership with an existing customer 
partner to exploit the Group’s Clareti Loan Control technology developed in 2016 in conjunction with this partner. The arrangement is a joint 
venture, with both parties holding an equal legal interest and exercising joint control. GMS Loan Technologies Limited did not trade in the 
year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: no trade) and is expected to begin its commercial activities in January 2017 .
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2015 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Casablanca Software Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015
 • Circa Selection Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015
16. Trade and other receivables
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Trade receivables 2,499 1,546 
Provision for impairment — —
Trade receivables - net 2,499 1,546 
Prepayments and accrued income 2,260 1,740 
Amounts recoverable on contracts — 186
4,759 3,472 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Income tax 2 892 
For the year ended 2015 the group surrendered tax losses in a UK company in return for an R&D tax credit. Given the group and UK companies are 
profitable, rather than surrendering these losses they are being used going forward to directly offset UK tax liabilities.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 71
Financial Statements 16. Trade and other receivables continued
The following table provides disclosure of contracts in progress at the statement of financial position date:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Contracts in progress at the statement of financial position date
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date — 344
Less: progress billings — (158)
Recognised as:
Amounts recoverable on contracts — 186
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Sterling 1,438 438 
Euro 18 37 
US Dollar 540 496 
Singapore 3 —
Australian Dollar 468 545 
Malaysian Ringgit 32 30 
Total trade receivables 2,499 1,546
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 – 60 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment.
At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total
£’000
Due not
impaired
£’000
Past due but not impaired
<30 days
£’000
30-60 days
£’000
60-90 days
£’000
90-120 days
£’000
>120 days
£’000
2016 2,499 1,451 909 136 3 — —
2015 1,546 463 1,043 23 1 — 16 
The Group’s customers primarily comprise national and international banks, government bodies and substantial private and public companies. 
As a result, the credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired has been assessed by the Directors to be relatively high, 
taking account of a low historic experience of bad debts and relatively good ageing profiles.
17 . Cash and cash equivalents
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 7,206 4,666
Cash at bank earns interest at both fixed term rates and floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is the same as stated above.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had £nil (2015: £nil) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cashflow, cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 72
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 18. Trade, other payables, provisions and financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Trade payables, other payables and deferred income are non-interest bearing.
Current
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Trade payables 753 436 
Other payables 1,929 1,188 
Deferred income 6,378 3,670 
9,060 5,294 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Financial liabilities - forward foreign currency contract (current) 71 3 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Income tax payable 139 89 
Current liabilities have increased over the year in part due to the acquisition of C24 Technologies Ltd in Oct 2016 (£0.9m), deferred income increase 
due to the new customer wins (£0.3m) and advanced billing on some existing customers predominantly in the UK (£0.6m) and in Australia (£0.9m).
Non-current
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Deferred income 267 53
Provisions
Property
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2016
–Current 19 
–Non-current 24 
43 
Amounts provided during the year 26 
Amounts utilised in the year (5)
Amounts released during the year —
At 31 December 2016
–Current 20 
–Non-current 44 
64 
Property
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2015
–Current 8 
–Non-current 28 
36 
Amounts provided during the year 18 
Amounts released during the year (9)
At 31 December 2015
–Current 19 
–Non-current 24 
43 
Property provisions
The restructuring provision relates to the Group’s property portfolio and the resulting lease liabilities, comprising end of lease dilapidation costs 
and empty property costs. The provision has been discounted using a range of rates from 0.25% to 5%, which the Directors consider to be the 
relevant pre-tax risk-based rate applicable to the liability.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 73
Financial Statements 19. Obligations under leases
Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessee
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties that have an average minimum duration of between one and five years. 
There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2016
£’000
Other
2016
£’000
Total
2016
£’000
Land and
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Not later than one year 304 — 304 325 — 325 
After one but not more than five years 453 — 453 255 — 255 
757 — 757 580 — 580 
Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessor
The Group has entered into commercial leases as lessor on Australian and US property. There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessor 
by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2016
£’000
Other
2016
£’000
Total
2016
£’000
Land and 
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Not later than one year 17 — 17 26 — 26
After one but not more than five years — — — — — —
17 — 17 26 — 26
20. Financial instruments
Objectives, policies and strategies
The Group’s objective is to finance the business through management of existing liquidity, focussing on working capital acceleration to cash and 
converting illiquid assets to liquid assets and, ultimately, cash. Investments in intangible fixed assets, property, plant and equipment have been 
made with the benefit of research and development tax credits taken as cash.
The Group’s policy towards using financial instruments is to manage credit, liquidity and currency exposure risk without exposing the Group to 
undue risk or speculation. The policy is kept under review by the Directors according to the Group’s foreign exchange and treasury policy.
Risk management
The risks arising from the Group’s operations and financial instruments are explained below.
Credit management
The Group monitors exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. The risk of financial loss due to a counterparty failure to honour its obligations 
arises principally in relation to transactions where the Group provides solutions and services on deferred terms and where it invests or deposits 
surplus cash.
Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses, and require that deferred terms are granted only to customers who demonstrate an appropriate 
payment history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that 
the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Solutions and services may be sold on a cash-with-order basis to mitigate credit risk. Bad debt 
insurance is not carried. 
Performance of individual businesses is monitored at both operating unit and Group level allowing the early identification of major risks and reducing 
the likelihood of an unmanaged concentration of credit risk.
Cash investments are only allowed in liquid securities with major financial institutions that satisfy specific criteria. The maximum credit risk exposure 
at the statement of financial position date is represented by the carrying value of financial assets. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Interest rate risk
The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk since it has no bank borrowings and interest receivable on cash deposits does not form 
a material part of Group income.
Capital risk
The Group defines its capital as the Group’s total equity and manages capital based on the level of net cash held. Its objective when managing 
capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, to provide an adequate return 
to investors based upon the level of risk undertaken, to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that 
may deliver future benefit to investors and to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate risks and unforeseen events.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may issue new shares or sell assets to provide additional capital.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 74
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 20. Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities – by maturity
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s financial liabilities, based on contractual undiscounted payments:
Less than
one
year
£’000
Between
one to two
years
£’000
Between
two and five
years
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2016
Contingent consideration 758 378 1,136
Provisions 20 37 57
778 415 1,193
Year ended 31 December 2015
Provisions 19 — 24 
19 — 24 
All current liabilities are expected to fall due within one year of the statement of financial position date at their carrying amount.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s liquidity risk falls within the following major categories:
 • Trade receivables – a significant element of the Group’ s liquidity is tied up in working capital, which primarily comprises trade receivables. 
The settlement risk associated with these assets comprises both credit risk (the risk that the counterparty will not settle at all) and liquidity risk 
(the risk that the counterparty will not settle on time).
 • Property, plant and equipment – a significant element of the Group’s liquidity is tied up in tangible fixed assets. For those assets required in the 
business for day to day operations, the Group considers the use of finance lease arrangements to reduce the amount of liquidity tied up in such 
assets. The Group keeps its investment in fixed assets under review and actively considers converting such assets to more liquid assets. 
 • Currency risk – this risk is discussed on page 76. 
The Group monitors and controls liquidity through the following key controls:
 • daily cash at bank is reported to the Executive Board; 
 • cash forecasts are maintained;
 • foreign exchange risks are hedged where significant; and
 • credit control is operated locally with Group oversight.
Where appropriate, discounts are offered for early payment by customers and finance lease and deferred payment arrangements are considered 
to retain or improve liquidity.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is an analysis by category of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are carried in the financial statements (there is no material 
difference between the carrying amounts and fair values):
Year ended 31 December 2016
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Fair value
through
profit and loss
£’000
Amortised
cost
£’000
Total
carrying
amount
£’000
Financial assets — —
Trade receivables 2,499 — — 2,499 
Accrued income 1,142 — — 1,142 
Cash and cash equivalents 7,206 — — 7,206 
10,847 — — 10,847 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — 753 753 
Other payables — — 1,432 1,432 
Provisions — — 64 64 
Foreign exchange instruments — 71 — 71 
Contingent consideration — 1,136 — 1,136
— 1,207 2,249 3,456 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 75
Financial Statements 20. Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Year ended 31 December 2015
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Fair value
through
profit and loss
£’000
Amortised
cost
£’000
Total
carrying
amount
£’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables 1,546 — — 1,546 
Accrued income 1,009 — — 1,009 
Cash and cash equivalents 4,666 — — 4,666 
7,221 — — 7,221 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — 436 436 
Other payables — — 643 643 
Provisions — — 43 43 
Foreign exchange instrument — 3 — 3 
— 3 1,122 1,125 
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
 • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 • Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
 • Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the Group held a foreign exchange instrument that had been measured at fair value using 
Level 2 techniques. 
Financial liabilities relate to derivative financial instruments which have a negative fair value. Fair value is calculated by reference to current 
forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Currency risk
The Group has exposures to the main currency types: US Dollar, Australian Dollar, Malaysian Ringgit and Euro rates in particular.
Currency exposure arises through intra-group loans and trading balances throughout all Group locations. Natural hedging is employed, to the 
extent possible, to minimise net exposures; however, where significant exposures arise outside of intra-group trading, it is Group policy to enter 
into formal hedging arrangements where these can be shown to be effective. 
At 31 December 2016, the Group had the following outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (2015: Liability £3,000):
As at 31 December 2016 Rate
Asset/
(liability)
Sell US$400,000 18-Jan-17 £/US$1.3298 (23)
Sell US$400,000 01-Feb-17 £/US$1.3302 (24)
Sell US$400,000 15-Feb-17 £/US$1.3304 (24)
Charge recognised within the Income Statement and (liability) recognised on the Balance Sheet 71/(71)
Currency exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the 
operating unit involved. In general, all overseas operating units trade and hold assets and liabilities in their functional currency.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 76
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 20. Financial instruments continued
Sensitivities
The following table details the Group’s sensitivities to a change in Sterling exchange rates against the respective foreign currencies. The sensitivities 
represent management’s assessment of the effect on monetary assets of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, which for 2016 and 2015 
take account of the potential fluctuations seen in the most recent periods. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk 
at the year end has been determined based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout the financial year and all other variables 
remain constant. The impact of translating the net assets of foreign operations into Sterling is excluded from the sensitivity analysis. 
A positive number indicates an increase in profit after taxation and other components of equity where Sterling weakens against the respective currencies.
2016
Increase/decrease
in exchange rates
Effect on
profit before tax
£’000
Euro +20% (53) 
-20% 79 
Australian Dollar +20% (444) 
-20% 666 
US Dollar +20% (347) 
-20% 520 
Malaysian Ringgit +20% (36) 
-20% 54 
Singapore Dollar +20% (10) 
-20% 16 
2015
Increase/decrease
in exchange rates
Effect on
profit before tax
£’000
Euro +20% (29) 
-20% 43 
Australian Dollar +20% (233) 
-20% 350 
US Dollar +20% (259) 
-20% 389 
Malaysian Ringgit +20% (27) 
-20% 41 
Singapore Dollar +20% (15) 
-20% 22 
The Group has no material exposure to interest rate sensitivities, however in addition to the year end risk quantified we remain susceptible to the 
changes on foreign exchange rates on our future currency cash inflows and outflows which although are notable, are mitigated through the use 
of forward exchange contracts from time to time and are not anticipated to materially affect the earnings in the future periods.
21. Issued share capital
Ordinary shares allotted, called up and fully paid Number
Nominal
value
£’000
At 1 January 2015 63,233,478 3,162
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 37,500 2
At 31 December 2015 63,270,978 3,164
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 350,000 18
Share issue 3,163,540 158
At 31 December 2016 66,784,518 3,340
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 77
Financial Statements 21. Issued share capital continued
The Company’s ordinary share capital consists of individual shares having a nominal value of 5 pence each.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
350,000 (2015: 37 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015 there were outstanding options granted to acquire ordinary shares in the Company. See note 22 for further details.
On 10 October 2016, the group issued 3,163,540 new ordinary shares (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue) via a placing to institutional 
shareholders to contribute to the acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited (note 27). The shares were issued at a placing price of £1.05 pence raising 
£3,163,000, after expenses of £101,000.
There are no preference shares in issue (2015: none).
An explanation of the Group’s capital management process and objectives is set out in the discussion of capital management on pages 19 to 21 
in the Strategic Report and capital risk disclosures in note 20.
22. Share-based payments
The following disclosures are in respect of both the Company and the Group.
The grant of all options and awards is made by the remuneration committee and such grants involve equity settlement. In granting executive share 
options the remuneration committee has regard to both the participant’s level of responsibility within the Group and to individual and Group performance. 
Share Option Schemes 2010
The Share Option Schemes 2010 were approved by shareholders on 30 December 2010, with amendments subsequently approved by 
shareholders on May 2012 and February 2015. The schemes consist of:
 • the Gresham T echnologies plc Enterprise Management Incentive Plan 2010;
 • the Gresham T echnologies plc Unapproved Share Option Plan 2010; and
 • the Gresham T echnologies plc Non Employee Share Option Plan 2010.
As its name implies, the EMI Plan operates as an enterprise management incentive scheme complying with the EMI Code and accordingly being 
entitled to certain beneficial tax treatment.
The Unapproved Plan enables the remuneration committee to grant share options in excess of the limits applicable under the EMI Code and/or to 
employees of the Group who do not qualify for EMI treatment.
The Non Employee Plan enables the remuneration committee to grant share options to persons whose services are made available to the Group 
without an employment relationship.
The remuneration committee is responsible for administering the Share Option Schemes 2010, and may grant options to acquire ordinary shares 
to any employees and Directors of the Group, and retains discretion to impose exercise performance conditions as appropriate. Options are granted 
free of charge and are non-transferable. 
The exercise price per ordinary share is determined by the remuneration committee but will not be less than 110% of the middle market price for 
the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant of the relevant option.
Options may normally be exercised only on or after the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to completion of any relevant performance 
criteria, save to the extent that the remuneration committee in its discretion declares any other period for exercise and will lapse on cessation of 
such employment, save again to the extent the remuneration committee in its discretion allows it to remain exercisable for such period following 
the cessation as it may determine.
Exercise is permitted in conjunction with a takeover or similar transaction and in such circumstances the vesting period does not apply. In the 
event of a takeover, an option holder may, by agreement with the acquirer, exchange his options for options over shares in the acquiring Company. 
At 31 December 2016, 29 participants held awards under this scheme (2015: 28).
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 78
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 22. Share-based payments continued
Share Option Schemes 2010 continued
Outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2016, including those noted in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, are as follows:
Share Option Schemes 2010 (options)
2016
Number
WAEP
(pence)
2015
Number
WAEP
(pence)
Outstanding at 1 January 2016 5,620,500 64 4,198,000 47
Granted during the year 100,000 1 1,500,000 111
Forfeited during the year (45,000) 69 (40,000) 96
Exercised during the year (350,000) 54 (37,500) 28
Outstanding at 31 December 2016 5,325,500 65 5,620,500 64
Exercisable at 31 December 2016 3,725,500 46 3,690,500 41
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 5.80 6.70 
During the year 350,000 options were exercised during the period when the company share price was 98.5 pence and 116 pence.
No price is payable on award of share options.
Outstanding options and awards to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2016, including those noted in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report showing the range of exercise prices and dates, are as follows:
31 December 2016
Number
of share
options
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
£
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
Cash receivable
if exercised
£
Share Option Schemes 2010 2,317,500 31-Dec-10 0.2805 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-20 650,059 
38,000 05-Aug-11 0.5803 05-Aug-14 05-Aug-21 22,051 
750,000 06-Apr-12 0.6424 06-Apr-15 06-Apr-22 481,800 
100,000 23-May-12 0.6105 23-May-15 23-May-22 61,050 
90,000 15-Aug-12 0.6850 15-Aug-15 15-Aug-22 61,650 
380,000 01-Aug-13 0.9630 01-Aug-16 01-Aug-23 365,940 
50,000 07-Oct-13 1.3230 07-Oct-16 07-Oct-23 66,150 
1,500,000 01-Jun-15 1.1057 01-Jun-18 01-Jun-25 1,658,580 
50,000 21-Jun-16 1.0945 21-Jun-19 21-Jun-26 54,725 
50,000 29-Nov-16 1.2434 29-Nov-19 29-Nov-26 62,172 
5,325,500 3,484,177 
Outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2015, including those noted in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report showing the range of exercise prices and dates, are as follows:
31 December 2015
Number
of share
options
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
£
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
Cash receivable
if exercised
£
Share Option Schemes 2010 2,417,500 31-Dec-10 0.2805 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-20 678,109 
38,000 05-Aug-11 0.5803 05-Aug-14 05-Aug-21 22,051 
1,000,000 06-Apr-12 0.6424 06-Apr-15 06-Apr-22 642,400 
100,000 23-May-12 0.6105 23-May-15 23-May-22 61,050 
135,000 15-Aug-12 0.6850 15-Aug-15 15-Aug-22 92,475 
380,000 01-Aug-13 0.9630 01-Aug-16 01-Aug-23 365,940 
50,000 07-Oct-13 1.3230 07-Oct-16 07-Oct-23 66,150 
1,500,000 01-Jun-15 1.1057 01-Jun-18 01-Jun-25 1,658,580 
5,620,500 3,586,755 
The fair value of outstanding equity-settled share options granted was estimated as at the date of grant as follows:
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted by the Share Option Schemes 2010 is estimated as at the date of grant using a Black Scholes 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. In all cases, the exercise price is at least 110% of the market 
price on the day prior to the date of grant.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 79
Financial Statements 22. Share-based payments continued
Share Option Schemes 2010 continued
The following table lists the range of inputs to the model used for the grants made:
2016 grants 2015 grants 2013 grants 2012 grants 2011 grants 2010 grants
Vesting date
21 Jun to
29 Nov 19 1 Jun 18
1 Aug 16 to
7 Oct 16
6 Apr 15 to
15 Aug 15 5 Aug 14 31 Dec 13
Expiry date (number of years after grant) 10 10 10 10 10 10
Exercise price £1.09–£1.24 £1.11 £0.96–£1.32 £0.61–£0.69 £0.58 £0.28
Share price at valuation £1.00–£1.12 £1.01 £0.84–£1.16 £0.52–£0.58 £0.53 £0.26
Vested options’ expected life 5.8 years 5.8 years 5.6 years 5.6 years 5.6 years 5.9 years
Volatility 20.0%
(1)
20.0%
(1)
20.0%
(1)
30.0%
(1)
46.3%
(1)
43.8%
(1)
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Risk free rate 1.0%
(2)
1.0%
(2)
1.0%
(2)
1.0%
(2)
2.7%
(2)
3.5%
(2)
Impact of continued 
employment conditions 30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
(1) Expected future volatility, based on historical analysis and trend
(2) Spot yield on valuation date of UK Government bonds with a comparable maturity date
(3) Attrition rate on average
Vesting of options is reliant on achievement of any relevant performance conditions set by the remuneration committee, which typically take the 
form of sales-based targets.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility 
reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. No other 
features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The expense recognised in the income statement for all equity-settled share-based payments in respect of employee services received is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Expense recognised in respect of share-based payments 117 110
23. Reserves
Share capital
The balance classified as share capital represents the nominal value arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 
5 pence ordinary shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
350,000 (2015: 37 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
On 10 October 2016, the group issued 3,163,540 new ordinary shares (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue) via a placing to institutional 
shareholders to contribute to the acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited. The shares were issued at a placing price of £1.05 pence raising £3,163,000, 
after expenses of £101,000.
Share premium
The balance classified as share premium represents the premium arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence 
ordinary shares, net of share issue expenses. There are restrictions on the use of the Share Premium Account. It can only be used for bonus issues, 
to provide for the premium payable on redemption of debentures, or to write off preliminary expenses, or expenses of, or commissions paid on, 
or discounts allowed on, the same issues of shares or debentures of the Company.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 80
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements 23. Reserves continued
Other reserves
The balance classified as other reserves comprises a special reserve of £313,000. The special reserve arose on the cancellation of deferred 
ordinary shares in June 1992.
Foreign currency translation reserves
The currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Retained earnings
All other net gains and losses and transactions with owners (e.g. dividends) not recognised elsewhere.
24. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2016, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £nil (2015: £nil).
25. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities
In the normal course of business, the Parent Company has issued general guarantees in respect of the contractual obligations of certain subsidiary 
undertakings from which no liability is expected to arise.
26. Related party transactions 
Key management compensation (including directors)
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Directors’ emoluments
Remuneration 524 457
Social security costs 68 59
Pension 18 16
Share based payments 75 36
685 568
Details of Directors’ compensation are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
There is no single party known that the Directors consider to be a controlling shareholder or ultimate parent undertaking. Refer to page 42 
for details of all significant shareholders that the Company has been notified of.
The services of Mr M Royde, Non-Executive Director, are provided and invoiced by Kestrel Partners LLP , a company in which he has an ownership 
interest. During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company was charged £25,000 by Kestrel Partners LLP (2015: £30,000), none of which 
(2015: £nil) remained unpaid at the year end. The total value of transactions with Kestrel Partners LLP in respect of the provision of Mr M Royde’s 
services is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
27 . Business combinations 
Acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited
On 3 October 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the voting shares of C24 Technologies Limited, a niche financial markets software product 
business founded in 2000, specialising in standards-based financial messaging and integration solutions. C24 is focussed on writing adapters 
to help move data from common back office systems into a SWIFT format which is a standardised message language used by financial 
institutions to make bank transfers. C24 updates all adapters and interfaces if and when swift messages change. 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 81
Financial Statements 27 . Business combinations continued
Acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited continued
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below:
Notes
Book value
£’000
Adjustment
£’000
Fair value
£’000
Intangible assets
 Software 13 — 3,067 3,067
 Customer relationships 13 — 866 866
Property, plant and equipment — — —
Current assets 630 — 630
Assumed liabilities (914) — (914)
Deferred tax 200 — 200
Total identifiable assets (84) — 4,024
Deferred tax on differences between fair values and tax bases — (680) (680)
Goodwill 13 — 1,376 1,376
Total net assets/consideration (84) 4,629 4,545
Satisfied as follows:
 Cash 3,409
 Contingent consideration 1,136
Total purchase consideration 4,545
Analysis of cashflows on acquisitions:
 Net cash acquired with subsidiary 395
 Cash paid (3,409)
 Net cash outflow (3,014)
Fair value of consideration paid
Cash 3,409
Contingent consideration due < 1 year 758
Contingent consideration due >1 year 378
Total consideration 4,545
The goodwill recognised above is attributable to intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured from 
C24 Technologies Limited due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies and assembled workforce.
From the date of acquisition, C24 Technologies Limited has contributed £270,000 of revenue to the Group and operating profits £205,000. If 
the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group revenue would have been £855,000 and operating losses would have 
been £220,000.
Contingent consideration-C24 Technologies Limited
As part of the share sale and purchase agreement, contingent consideration of £1,136,000 has been agreed. This payment is subject to certain 
transition related objectives and forecasted customer contract renewals being achieved. The contingent consideration is payable in two tranches, 
one on the anniversary of the completion £758,000 and the second payable 18 months after completion £378,000.
28. Post balance sheet events 
There were no post balance sheet events.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 82
Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial Statements Notes
31 December
2016
£’000
31 December
2015
£’000
Fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 12 22
Deferred tax asset 9 250 —
Investments 6 14,625 9,963
14,887  9,985
Current assets
Debtors 7 18,996 14,122
Cash at bank and in hand 2,241 2,431
 21,237 16,553
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 11,167 6,908
Contingent consideration 758 —
Net current assets 9,312 9,645
Total assets less current liabilities 24,199 19,630
Contingent consideration due more than one year 378 —
Total assets less liabilities 23,821 19,630
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 3,340 3,164
Share premium account 11 3,242 9
Special reserve 11 313 313
Merger reserve 11 1,360 1,360
Profit and loss account 11 15,566 14,784
Shareholders’ funds – equity interests 11 23,821 19,630
The company made a retained profit in the year of £782,000 (after a share based payment credit of £117 ,000).
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 13 March 2017 .
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
13 March 2017 13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 83
Financial Statements
Company balance sheet Notes
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Special
reserve
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Profit and
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2015 3,162 16,522 313 1,360 (1,636) 19,721
Exercise of share options 21 2 9 — — — 11
Share premium cancellation — (16,522) — — 16,522 —
Share-based payments expense 22 — — — — 110 110
Retained loss for the year — — — — (212) (212)
At 31 December 2015 3,164 9 313 1,360 14,784 19,630
Exercise of share options 21 18 171 — — — 189
Share-based payments expense 22 — — — — 117 117
Share issue proceeds 21 158 3,163 — — — 3,321
Share transaction costs — (101) — — — (101)
Retained profit for the year — — — — 665 665
At 31 December 2016 3,340 3,242 313 1,360 15,566 23,821
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 84
Financial Statements
Company statement of changes in equity 1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Parent Company financial statements of Gresham Technologies plc (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
and as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for financial instruments that are measured at fair value 
and were approved for issue on 13 March 2017 .
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. For the year ended 
31 December 2016, the Company recorded a retained profit of £665,000 (2015: loss of £212,000).
Disclosure exemptions adopted
In preparing these financial statements the Company has taken advantage of all disclosure exemptions conferred by FRS 101. Therefore these 
financial statements do not include:
 • certain comparative information as otherwise required by EU-endorsed IFRSs;
 • certain disclosures regarding the Company’ s capital;
 • a statement of cashflows;
 • the effect of future accounting standards not yet adopted;
 • the disclosure of the remuneration of key management personnel; and
 • disclosure of related party transactions with other wholly owned members of the Gresham T echnologies plc Group.
In addition, and in accordance with FRS 101, further disclosure exemptions have been adopted because equivalent disclosures are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements do not include certain disclosures in respect of:
 • share-based payments;
 • business combinations;
 • assets held for sale and discontinued operations;
 • financial instruments (other than certain disclosures required as a result of recording financial instruments at fair value);
 • fair value measurement (other than certain disclosures required as a result of recording financial instruments at fair value); and
 • impairment of assets.
Investments
Investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. 
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are 
classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated 
as hedging instruments. Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the 
loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cashflows (excluding future 
credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed 
at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognised in administration costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
in the profit and loss account to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 85
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company financial statements 1. Accounting policies continued
Other receivables
Where the time value of money is material, other receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that 
the Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Taxation
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates 
and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
R&D tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis and recorded as a credit in the taxation line of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
 • where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
 • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 • deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability 
is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date. Deferred income tax assets and 
liabilities are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes 
relate to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to other 
comprehensive income or directly to equity. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at an approximation of the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Resulting exchange 
gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments
The Company uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. Such instruments are stated 
at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the profit and loss account in the period.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned 
subsidiary undertakings of the Gresham Technologies plc Group.
Leasing commitments
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are 
recognised over the lease term and the period to the next rent review.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 86
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
Financial Statements 1. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments – equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is 
recognised in the Company financial statements as a capital contribution to the subsidiaries for whom the employees perform services, with the 
credit entry being made to reserves, over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to 
the award. 
Fair value of awards with a market-condition based performance target is determined by an external valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of the Company (market conditions). Fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the 
Black Scholes pricing model.
No capital contribution is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense 
since the previous balance sheet date is recognised as a capital contribution, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based 
on the original award terms continues to be recognised as a capital contribution over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised 
as a capital contribution over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference 
between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction 
is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is recorded as a capital contribution immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation 
or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as a capital contribution in the balance sheet.
2. Auditor’s remuneration
The figures within the auditors’ remuneration note in the Gresham consolidated financial statements include fees charged by the Company’s 
auditors to Gresham Technologies plc in respect of audit and non-audit services. As such, no separate disclosure has been given above.
3. Directors’ remuneration
Information concerning Directors’ remuneration and gains on exercise of share options can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
beginning on page 33 and in note 7 to the Group financial statements.
4. Dividends paid and proposed
No dividends were declared or paid during the year and no dividends will be proposed for approval at the AGM (2015: none).
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 87
Financial Statements 5. Property, plant and equipment
31 December
2016
Total
£’000
31 December
2015
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 31 —
Additions — 31 
Disposals — —
Exchange adjustment — —
At 31 December 31 31 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January (9) —
Charge for year (10) (9)
Disposals — —
Exchange adjustment — —
At 31 December (19) (9)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 12 22 
At 1 January 22 —
All fixed assets relate to fixtures and fittings.
6. Investments
Subsidiaries
2016
£’000
Subsidiaries
2015
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 23,555  23,006 
Disposal of subsidiary — —
Acquisitions 4,545 —
Capital contribution - additional investment — 25 
Capital contribution - capitalisation of inter-company debt — 414 
Capital contribution - share-based payments  117  110 
At 31 December 28,217  23,555 
Impairment provisions
At 1 January 13,592  13,592 
Disposal of subsidiary — —
Impairment charge — —
At 31 December  13,592  13,592 
Net book value
At 31 December 14,625  9,963 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 88
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
Financial Statements 6. Investments continued
Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are as follows:
Name of subsidiary company Country of incorporation
Holding
(shares)
Proportion of
voting rights and
shares held Nature of business
Gresham Computer Services Limited Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Financial Systems Limited Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
C24 Technologies Limited
(5)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pty Limited
(3)
Level 6, Pacific highway, North Sydney, Australia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Sdn Bhd
(1)
Level 7 , Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Malaysia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pte. Limited 138 Cecil Street, Cecil Court, Singapore Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Inc
(1,3)
40 Wall Street, New York, USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Enterprise Storage Inc
(3)
40 Wall Street, New York, USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
GMS Loan Technologies Limited
(6)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 50% Software solutions
Gresham Consultancy Services Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Tech Limited
(2,4)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Telecomputing Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Business Systems Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Cheerkeep Limited
(2)
Aldermary House, London, England Ordinary 100% Dormant
(1) held by a subsidiary undertaking 
(2) subsidiary exempt from UK audit under section 480a of the Companies Act 2006
(3) subsidiary has no requirement for a local statutory audit
(4) name changed from Gresham Technologies Limited on 16 November 2016
(5) acquired October 2016
(6) incorporated December 2016, dormant until 1 January 2017
In December 2016 Gresham established a newly formed Company GMS Loan Technologies Limited in partnership with an existing customer 
partner to exploit the Group’s Clareti Loan Control technology developed in 2016 in conjunction with this partner. The arrangement is a joint 
venture, with both parties holding an equal legal interest and exercising joint control. GMS Loan Technologies Limited did not trade in the 
year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: no trade) and is expected to begin its commercial activities in January 2017 .
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2015 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Casablanca Software Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015
 • Circa Selection Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015
7 . Debtors
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 18,931 14,078 
VAT receivable 54  36 
Prepayments and accrued income 11  8 
 18,996  14,122 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 89
Financial Statements 8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 10,715 6,732 
Trade creditors 171 175 
Other creditors and accruals 210  1 
Financial liability 71 —
 11,167  6,908 
Other creditors represent one loan of £180,000 and its associated interest of £29,000 which is outstanding consideration on the acquisition of 
C24 Technologies Limited.
Contingent consideration in relation to C24 Technologies Limited Acquisition
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Amounts due within one year 758 — 
Amounts due greater than one year 378 — 
 1,136 — 
9. Deferred tax
The Company has a recognised deferred tax asset as follows:
Recognised deferred tax asset is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
As at 1 January 2016 — —
Movement in the period within the profit and loss account 250 —
As at 31 December  250 —
Comprising: —
Temporary timing differences 206 —
Tax losses 44 —
 250 —
Unrecognised deferred tax asset:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Share-based payments — 171 
Tax losses — 110 
— 281 
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 90
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
Financial Statements 10. Issued share capital
Ordinary shares allotted, called up and fully paid Number
Nominal
value
£’000
At 1 January 2015 63,233,478 3,162
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 37,500 2
At 31 December 2015 63,270,978 3,164
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 350,000 18
Share issue 3,163,540 158
At 31 December 2016 66,784,518 3,340
The Company’s ordinary share capital consists of individual shares having a nominal value of 5 pence each.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
350,000 (2015: 37 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015 there were outstanding options granted to acquire ordinary shares in the Company. See note 22 for further details.
On 10 October 2016, the group issued 3,163,540 new ordinary shares (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue) via a placing to institutional 
shareholders to contribute to the acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited (note 27). The shares were issued at a placing price of £1.05 pence raising 
£3,163,000, after expenses of £101,000.
There are no preference shares in issue (2015: none).
11. Reserves
Share capital
The balance classified as share capital represents the nominal value arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 
5 pence ordinary shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
350,000 (2015: 37 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
On 10 October 2016, the group issued 3,163,540 new ordinary shares (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue) via a placing to institutional 
shareholders to contribute to the acquisition of C24 Technologies Limited (note 27). The shares were issued at a placing price of £1.05 pence raising 
£3,163,000, after expenses of £101,000.
Share premium
The balance classified as share premium represents the premium arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence 
ordinary shares, net of share issue expenses. There are restrictions on the use of the Share Premium Account. It can only be used for bonus issues, 
to provide for the premium payable on redemption of debentures, or to write off preliminary expenses, or expenses of, or commissions paid on, 
or discounts allowed on, the same issues of shares or debentures of the Company.
Other reserves
The balance classified as other reserves comprises a special reserve of £313,000. The special reserve arose on the cancellation of deferred ordinary 
shares in June 1992.
Merger Reserve
The merger reserve arose on issue of shares in respect of acquisitions and mergers in the period 1992 to 1999.
Retained earnings
All other net gains and losses and transactions with owners (e.g dividends) not recognised elsewhere.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 91
Financial Statements 12. Obligations under leases
Operating lease agreements where the Company is lessee
The Company has entered into commercial leases on certain properties that have an average minimum duration of between one and five years. 
There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2016
£’000
Other
2016
£’000
Total
2016
£’000
Land and
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Not later than one year 232 — 232 222 — 222 
After one but not more than five years 110 — 110 172 — 172 
342 — 342 394 — 394 
Operating lease agreements where the Company is lessor
The Company has no lease arrangements where it is lessor.
13. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2016, Company amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment amounted to £nil (2015: £nil).
14. Contingent liabilities
In the normal course of business, the Company has issued general guarantees in respect of the contractual obligations of certain subsidiary 
undertakings. The Company has assessed the risk of defaults by subsidiary undertakings and should Gresham Technologies plc have to assume 
the debt and make settlement, the appropriate provisioning would be provided for within the Company.
15. Share-based payments
Share-based payments in respect of both the Company and the Group are disclosed in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
16. Related party transactions
The Company is exempt from disclosing transactions within the wholly owned subsidiaries in the group. Other related party transactions 
are included within those given in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 92
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
Financial Statements Registered Office
Aldermary House 
10–15 Queen Street 
London 
EC4N 1TX
Broker and financial adviser
N+1 Singer Capital Markets Limited
One Bartholomew Lane 
London 
EC2N 2AX
Auditor
BDO LLP
Arcadia House 
Maritime Walk 
Ocean Village 
Southampton 
SO14 3TL
Solicitors
Blake Morgan LLP
Tollgate
Chandler’s Ford 
Eastleigh
SO53 3LG
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
55 Above Bar Street 
Southampton 
SO14 7DZ
Annual General Meeting
4 May 2017 
N+1 Singer Capital Markets Limited 
One Bartholomew Lane 
London 
EC2N 2AX
Corporate information Gresham Technologies plc
Aldermary House 
10 – 15 Queen Street 
London 
EC4N 1TX
investorrelations@greshamtech.com 
greshamtech.com
Gresham Technologies plc  Annual Financial Report 2016
