 Gulf Marine Services PLC 
Annual Report 2016
EXPANDING 
CAPABILITY 
THROUGH 
INNOVATION 
GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC  Annual Report 2016 LEADING THE WA Y IN 
OFFSHORE SUPPORT 
SOLUTIONS FOR THE OIL, 
GAS AND RENEWABLE 
ENERGY INDUSTRIES
Financial Results Summary 
• Revenue was US$ 179.4 million  
(2015: US$ 219.7 million).
• Adjusted EBITDA* was US$ 106.8 
million (2015: US$ 138.5 million). 
Adjusted EBITDA margin* of 60% 
(2015: 63%).
• Adjusted net profit after taxation* 
was US$ 50.7 million (2015: US$ 84.9 
million) with net profit of US$ 29.4 
million (2015: US$ 75.0 million).
• Adjusted diluted earnings per share* 
was 14.35 cents (2015: 24.05 cents) 
with diluted earnings per share of  
8.34 cents (2015: 21.25 cents).
• Gross profit was US$ 74.3 million 
(2015: US$ 132.2 million). Adjusted 
gross profit* was US$ 95.6 million 
(2015: US$ 132.2 million).
• Impairment of US$ 21.3 million on 
non-core assets and a leased vessel. 
• Final dividend proposed of 1.20 pence 
(1.50 cents) per share taking total 
2016 dividend payments to 1.61 pence 
(2.04 cents).
• Net debt* of US$ 362.0 million  
(2015: US$ 304.3 million), undrawn 
committed bank facilities of US$ 145.0 
million (2015: US$ 225.0 million)  
at 31 December 2016; deleveraging 
from Q2 2017 onwards. 
• The Group’s net leverage ratio*  
was 3.4 times (2015: 2.2 times) 
adjusted EBITDA at year end.
Operational Highlights
• SESV fleet utilisation of 70% despite  
a challenging market.
• Secured six new contracts since our 
interim results, including two long-
term contracts (18-month charter 
including extension options in Europe, 
three-year charter including extension 
options in the MENA region). 
• New build programme completed 
within budget and on schedule, with  
a Mid-Size Class and a Large Class 
SESV delivered during the year.
• Development and installation of a 
pioneering cantilever on new Large 
Class vessel GMS Evolution, scheduled 
to be ready for operations Q2 2017.
• On target to deliver previously 
announced annualised cost savings.
• Strong HSE performance maintained 
during a busy year. 
Outlook
• Modern fleet, leading operational 
experience and expanding 
technological capability places GMS  
in a good position to capitalise on  
the market recovery. 
2016 – HIGHLIGHTS 1 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION 
2016 Highlights IFC
GMS at a Glance 2
Chairman’s Statement 4
STRA TEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 15
Key Performance Indicators 16
Risk Management 18
PERFORMANCE
Operational Review 24
Financial Review 28
Corporate Social Responsibility 32
GOVERNANCE 
Chairman’s Introduction 36
Board of Directors 38
Corporate Governance 40
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 43
Report of the Remuneration Committee 47
Report of the Nomination Committee 60
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 73
Company Financial Statements 104
ADDITIONAL INFORMA TION 
Notice of AGM 116
Glossary 122
Corporate Information IBC
• Good level of client interest in the 
cantilever capability, an innovation 
with the potential to significantly 
increase work opportunities for GMS. 
• Increasing tender activity in core 
regions of Europe and the Middle East. 
• Continued focus on maximising 
utilisation, cost control and cash 
management.
• Secured backlog* of US$ 209.2 million 
as at 1 March 2017, providing visibility 
of 2017 trading. 
• Net debt expected to peak at around 
US$ 375.0 million in Q1 2017, reducing 
to approximately US$ 335.0 million at 
the end of 2017. 
The above highlights are based on the Group’s adjusted 
results, which exclude the impairment charge in 2016. A full 
reconciliation between the adjusted and statutory results 
is contained in note 6. 
* Please refer to the Glossary. 2 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Introduction
GMS AT A GLANCE
A WORLD LEADER  
IN SESVs
Gulf Marine Services is the operator of the 
world’s largest fleet of advanced self-propelled 
self-elevating support vessels (SESVs).
About us
GMS’ assets provide a stable platform for  
the delivery of a wide range of services 
performed by the Group’s national and 
international oil company clients and 
engineering, procurement and construction 
contractors throughout the lifecycle of 
offshore oil and gas projects and operators 
in the renewable energy (wind farm-related) 
industry. Our vessels are capable of 
operations in the water depths of up to 80m 
that are typically found in the Middle East, 
South East Asia, West Africa and Europe. 
We pride ourselves on being at the forefront 
of technological innovation and construct 
and maintain our own vessels at our 
quayside yard in Abu Dhabi. Our extensive 
new build programme in recent years  
has made the GMS fleet one of the most 
sophisticated in the industry. 
Our offering 
The Group’s fleet of 15 SESVs is amongst 
the youngest in the industry, with an 
average age of eight years. Our SESVs  
are four-legged vessels that move 
independently, with no requirement for 
anchor handling or tug support. They have  
a large deck space, crane capacity and 
accommodation facilities that can be 
adapted to the requirements of our clients. 
These vessels support our clients in a broad 
range of offshore oil and gas platform 
refurbishment and maintenance activities, 
well intervention work and offshore wind 
turbine maintenance work (which are 
opex-led activities), as well as offshore  
oil and gas platform installation and 
decommissioning and offshore wind turbine 
installation (which are capex-led activities). 
Small Class
• 8 units
• Average age: 12 years  
(9 years excl. Naashi)
• Water depth: 45m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
Mid-Size Class
• 3 units
• Average age: 2 years 
• Water depth: 55m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Large Class
• 4 units 
• Average age: 4 years
• Water depth: 65–80m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Three classes of vessels serve a range of client needs
GMS fleet of SESVs
Large Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Evolution
(i)
2017
GMS Enterprise 2014
GMS Endeavour 2011
GMS Endurance 2010
Mid-Size Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Sharqi 2016
GMS Scirocco 2015
GMS Shamal 2015
Small Class Vessels Year of Delivery
Pepper 2015
Kinoa
(ii)
2012
Keloa 2009
Kudeta 2008
Kawawa 2006
Kikuyu 2005
Kamikaze 1999
Naashi 1982
(i) GMS Evolution complete with a well workover cantilever will be ready for operations from Q2 2017. 
(ii) Kinoa is a leased vessel that the Group has an option to acquire, to which it has not committed.  3 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
History 
GMS was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE  
in 1977 and in 1982 pioneered the design, 
build and operation of the first purpose  
built four-legged self-propelled SESV in  
the Gulf. In 2007 the Group was acquired  
by a consortium of investors, led by private 
equity firm Gulf Capital, and a new senior 
management team was appointed, headed 
by the current CEO Duncan Anderson.  
At this time, the Group was operating  
three self-propelled SESVs (with a fourth 
undergoing refurbishment) and had another 
under construction. During the last nine 
years, GMS has successfully expanded its 
fleet and geographical coverage, from a  
local operation in Abu Dhabi to become the 
largest operator of self-propelled SESVs in 
the world. The Group listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in March 2014.
The current SESV fleet stands at  
15 vessels (as at 1 March 2017) as set  
out in the table adjacent; the Group also  
has an accommodation barge and two 
anchor-handling tug support vessels.
The first Large Class vessel, which opened 
up a market sector where vessels can 
operate in harsh weather and deeper water 
environments, was constructed in 2010, with 
a second delivered in 2011. In 2010 when 
GMS Endurance was completed, it was 
initially deployed in Saudi Arabia, whilst the 
second, GMS Endeavour, was mobilised to 
the North Sea; both markets were a first  
for GMS and allowed us to expand our 
geographic and client footprint beyond the 
UAE, where we had predominantly been 
working up to that time. GMS operated 
entirely in the oil and gas sector until 2011 
when we entered the offshore wind power 
installation market in North West Europe 
with one of our Large Class vessels, GMS 
Endeavour. In 2015 GMS secured its first 
contract in the North Sea supporting 
decommissioning activities in the offshore  
oil and gas sector.
In 2014 we embarked on a programme  
to expand the fleet by a further six SESVs  
as part of our strategy to widen the scope  
of our market opportunities and our 
geographical footprint, and this included  
the introduction of our new Mid-Size Class 
vessels which has successfully bridged the 
gap between our Large and Small Class 
vessels. All of these have been delivered  
on time and within budget; the sixth vessel, 
GMS Evolution, has had a well workover 
cantilever installed and will be ready for 
operations from Q2 2017. 
GMS supports:
• Well intervention services  
and enhanced oil recovery
• Drilling support, completions  
and testing
• Platform construction, hookup  
and commissioning
• Platform restoration  
and maintenance
• Coil tubing, wireline and snubbing
• Well abandonment and 
decommissioning
• Wind turbine installation  
and maintenance
• Offshore wind farm substation 
commissioning and maintenance
What differentiates GMS from other operators? 
• Pioneering development of Large Class and Mid-Size Class SESVs.
• All our SESVs have four legs – this, combined with our dynamic positioning system 
on our Large Class and Mid-Size Class vessels, helps us to position our vessels very 
close to the clients’ installations and provides a significantly more stable and 
reliable platform than three-legged jackup vessels. 
• All our SESVs are self-propelled – they do not need costly support vessels for travel 
and manoeuvres, saving our clients both time and money.
• We design, build and operate our own SESVs. We do not rely on third party 
shipyards for maintenance and modification. 
• We are at the forefront of technological innovation – we use our in-house expertise 
to enhance the design of our vessels and expand our services so that we can 
provide flexible, cost-effective, offshore support solutions to our clients. 
More information on the above can be found in our business model and strategy on 
pages 12 to 15.
Expanding capability through innovation 
GMS has been at the forefront of pioneering technological innovation for some 40 years. We have been proactively enhancing the 
design of our vessels and broadening the range of services we offer in order to provide the most efficient and cost-effective offshore 
support solutions for our clients. 
In 2016 we developed pioneering cantilever systems for our Large Class SESVs. The cantilever systems will allow us to deliver a greater 
range of services from our SESVs and to carry out work that would otherwise be performed by more expensive non-propelled drilling 
rigs. More details on the well workover cantilever system installed on GMS Evolution can be found on page 27.  
We are continuing to expand our services as part of our strategic plan to apply our ability to innovate technologically to diversify into 
new markets and to increase our geographical spread.  4 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Introduction
As we had anticipated, the sustained  
low oil price and subsequent pressure on 
vessel demand and charter rates affected 
our business, but the management team 
was able to deliver a satisfactory set of 
results against this difficult background  
with adjusted EBITDA for the year of  
US$ 106.8 million (US$ 138.5 million in 2015). 
While much of 2016 was challenging, we are 
currently seeing an improvement in tender 
activity, which we expect to be reflected  
in an increasing backlog in due course.  
We have secured six new contracts since 
August, with a total charter period in  
excess of six years including extension 
options. Our backlog as at 1 March 2017 
stands at US$ 209.2 million (comprising  
firm and extension options). 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend for the year 
of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
16 May 2017 and this will be paid on 19 May 
2017. The dividend per share for 2016 has 
been held constant and the total dividend 
for the year is 1.61 pence per share (2.04 cents). 
The progress we have made in expanding 
our services is very promising, particularly 
the development of our new cantilever 
system for our Large Class vessels.  
This new capability will broaden our 
accessible market and will allow us, in  
this current cost-sensitive environment,  
to offer well workover services much  
more cost-effectively than those provided 
by traditional jackup drilling rigs. Further 
information on this new concept is  
contained in the Operational Review  
section of this report. 
We successfully completed our current  
new build programme with two new vessels 
delivered during 2016. We are pleased to see 
new markets opening up to GMS following  
the addition to our fleet of Large Class and 
Mid-Size Class vessels in recent years;  
further details on this strategic expansion 
can be found in the CEO’s Review. Future 
development of the fleet is likely to focus on 
the further extension of our service offering. 
We will consider fitting cantilevers to our 
other Large Class vessels once we have 
proved the concept and identified additional 
market demand. 
As detailed elsewhere in this report, we 
maintained high levels of health and safety 
across the business during a busy year  
and this will remain a key priority for 
management. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our staff, both 
onshore and offshore, for their continued 
hard work and dedication to GMS. 
As we announced in December 2016, 
independent non-executive Director Mike 
Straughen and non-executive Director 
Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS 
Board with effect from 1 January 2017. On 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank Mike 
and Richard, who both joined GMS at the 
time of our IPO in 2014, for their valuable 
contributions to the Group. Their wealth  
of experience and sound stewardship has 
been much appreciated throughout their 
time with us. 
I remain confident that under the leadership 
of our CEO Duncan Anderson and his strong 
management team, GMS will be able to 
further expand our service offering and 
maximise new charter opportunities in an 
improving market. 
Simon Heale
Chairman
27 March 2017
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am very pleased to be introducing 
Gulf Marine Services’ 2016 Annual 
Report. The Group has delivered  
a good performance in the year 
despite the subdued market 
environment. 5 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 6 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 15
Key Performance Indicators 16
Risk Management 18
STRA TEGIC 
REPORT 7 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 8 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
Clients are more likely to charter our 
cost-effective, fit-for-purpose and flexible 
fleet independent of oil price sentiment, 
which is not typically the case elsewhere in 
the wider offshore support vessel sector. 
While we anticipate some of the challenges 
faced in 2016 will carry forward into the 
near-term, I am confident that the steps  
we have taken to help us navigate the 
industry downturn, including the delivery  
of significant reductions in our cost base, a 
competitive business development strategy, 
together with the strategic expansion of our 
fleet, will allow us to deliver earnings growth 
for GMS in due course.
Group financial performance 
Our priority in 2016 was on maximising 
vessel utilisation in challenging market 
conditions. It was a creditable performance 
by the management team that resulted in 
2016 revenue at US$ 179.4 million being 
restricted to a less than 20% reduction 
compared to the previous year. Adjusted 
EBITDA for the year was US$ 106.8 million 
(US$ 138.5 million in 2015) reflecting the 
strong operating cash flow generation  
of the business and we are able to report  
an adjusted EBITDA margin of 60% for 2016 
(63% in 2015). Adjusted net profit after 
taxation for the year was US$ 50.7 million 
(US$ 84.9 million in 2015). 
As a reflection of our confidence in the 
stability of the business, the proposed final 
dividend for the year is recommended to be 
1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
16 May 2017 and this will be paid on 19 May 
2017, giving a total dividend for the year of 
1.61 pence (2.04 cents). 
Fleet utilisation and order book
GMS achieved a 70% utilisation rate for our 
SESV fleet in 2016 (98% in 2015), with 100% 
technical and operational uptime for our 
contracted vessels. We expected our fleet 
utilisation and charter rates for the year to 
be affected by the low oil price environment, 
reflecting some clients’ focus on cost 
savings rather than production. This level  
of utilisation is still healthy compared to  
that experienced in both the wider offshore 
support vessel and drilling rig sectors. We 
currently expect utilisation to increase 
during the course of 2017, although it will  
be partially affected for a period as we 
transition into new contracts. 
In the first half of 2016 we saw significantly 
lower levels of tender activity as our clients 
reduced their expenditure plans in response 
to market uncertainties. We have 
subsequently seen a gradual increase in 
tender opportunities and since our interim 
results have secured six new contracts with 
a total charter period in excess of six years 
including extension options. Encouragingly, 
two of these awards are for long-term 
charters, as short-term contract opportunities 
have been more customary in the current 
environment. These new charters comprise 
a three-year contract (including options)  
for one of our Mid-Size Class vessels in the 
MENA region, and an 18-month contract 
(including options) for one of our Large Class 
vessels in Europe. 
Our focus remains on maximising our vessel 
utilisation. While this has necessitated the 
negotiation of lower charter rates on certain 
contracts, we expect to see an improvement 
in pricing in the future as the market 
tightens. The secured backlog as at 1 March 
2017 is US$ 209.2 million (comprising firm 
and extension options) and is expected to 
increase towards the end of 2017 as the 
anticipated further improvement in 
utilisation is reflected in our order book. 
Operations
Health, safety and the environment continue 
to be our top priority and we delivered a 
strong safety performance in 2016. The total 
number of man hours worked was 6.0 million 
in 2016 (7.7 million man hours in 2015). There 
was an improvement in our lost time injury 
rate (LTI) with one LTI being sustained 
during the year compared to two in 2015;  
we will continue to strive for our target of 
zero LTIs. The total recordable injury rate 
was 0.20 in 2016 (0.18 in 2015). 
The SESV new build programme to expand 
the fleet by six vessels was completed within 
budget and on schedule at the end of 2016. 
The Mid-Size Class GMS Sharqi was delivered 
in Q1 2016. The Large Class GMS Evolution 
was completed in Q4 2016, with further work 
on the installation and testing of a cantilever 
system on the vessel expected to continue 
into Q2 2017. The strategic decision to expand 
the fleet has significantly increased the scope 
of our service offering, with the investment in 
the new Large Class and Mid-Size Class SESVs 
validated by the current higher utilisation of 
these vessels for operations that were less 
suited to our smaller class assets. Future 
development of the fleet is likely to focus on 
the extension of our service offering, with the 
installation of additional cantilever systems on 
all our Large Class vessels in time as more 
clients see the value this new capability brings 
to their businesses. 
The Group has delivered a solid set of 
2016 results in line with expectations  
for the business against the  
backdrop of a sustained low oil  
price environment. This performance 
continues to show our resilience in  
the brownfield sector when there  
are lower customer activity levels. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The Group maintains a very high focus  
on asset integrity and marine assurance  
and our off-hire vessels are being kept  
in readiness for swift deployment as the 
market starts to recover and as we secure 
further charters. 
Expansion of services
GMS has been at the forefront of 
technological innovation in its industry for 
many years. As both a builder and operator, 
we have expanded and enhanced our fleet 
for the future, ensuring our vessels can 
meet the technical and operational 
specifications we have identified as being 
especially useful for our anticipated clients’ 
requirements. This has included the 
introduction of our Large Class and Mid-Size 
SESVs more recently. While our Small Class 
fleet is of value for many of our clients’ 
operations in the Gulf, the addition of our 
newer vessels has helped us to broaden  
our service offering. 
During 2016 we also took significant steps  
to further expand our well services 
capability through our pioneering cantilever 
system. We designed and developed the 
system, in partnership with Dwellop A.S., 
with a well workover unit and top drive for 
our latest new build vessel GMS Evolution. 
This system, which is expected to be ready  
for operations in Q2 2017 following the 
completion of sea trials, will allow us to 
provide a greater range of services from  
the vessel and to compete for well workover 
activity that was previously only able to be 
carried out from more expensive and less 
efficient non-propelled jackup drilling rigs. 
The faster transit and jacking speed of our 
self-propelled SESV allows us to deploy our 
vessel in less than a day, versus the three 
days or more required for a conventional 
drilling rig. We estimate that this advantage, 
combined with our cantilever capability and 
other operational efficiencies, will allow us to 
complete a typical well workover project in 
approximately 25% less time than the same 
activity performed by a drilling rig. This 
translates into significant cost savings  
for our client, even before any further 
economies that may be achieved from 
charter rates lower than alternatives such 
as drilling rigs, as well as the additional cost 
of hiring the necessary support vessels  
that these require. GMS will be the first  
to introduce this capability on an SESV  
and we have been very encouraged  
by the good level of interest from our 
existing and prospective clients in the  
cantilever capability. 
We will continue to innovate and seek  
to differentiate our offering from our 
competitors. Our intention over the 
medium-term would be to offer our clients  
a more extensive and integrated package  
of well intervention services across our 
SESV fleet by bringing in-house more of  
the ancillary specialist services we currently 
sub-contract. This should help us to be  
an even more cost-effective solution for  
our clients.  10 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
Finance 
The Group’s decisive actions on cost-saving 
initiatives and the prioritisation of utilisation 
have helped to mitigate the impact on our 
business of the challenging market 
conditions. I am pleased to report that we 
expect to deliver the previously announced 
annualised cost-savings; further details can 
be found in the Financial Review.
During the year we conducted a full 
impairment review of our fixed assets. No 
impairments are required of our core SESV 
fleet, reflecting the low original self-
construction cost of the vessels and the 
outlook for the Group’s markets over the 
vessel life of the assets. Our non-core assets 
(two anchor tug supply vessels and an 
accommodation barge) were impaired during 
the year. A leased Small Class vessel, on 
which we hold an option to purchase but 
which we are unlikely to exercise given the 
low oil price environment, has also been 
impaired. Accordingly, a total impairment 
charge of US$ 21.3 million has been recorded 
in the income statement.
Our people 
I would like to thank our highly skilled and 
dedicated workforce for their contribution  
to GMS during a challenging period. As has 
been the case with other companies in our 
industry, it was necessary to lower our  
costs during the year and this included a 
reduction in our headcount and a decrease 
in salaries for all personnel. The support  
and continued commitment of all our staff  
is very much appreciated. 
Market commentary 
Middle East
During 2016 the effects of the prolonged low 
oil price environment shifted focus amongst 
some of our key clients in the Middle East 
away from increasing production to reducing 
operating costs. The extent to which this 
affected GMS varied. In some instances, 
extension options were not exercised or 
contracts were terminated early. In other 
cases, it was necessary to renegotiate 
contracts at lower day rates in order to 
maintain the term of the contract. We have 
been seeing an increase in the number of 
tender opportunities from the second half  
of 2016 onwards and our success in winning 
a significant amount of the available work 
tendered is testament to the quality of our 
fleet and operational delivery. As our clients’ 
again begin to focus on production targets, 
we anticipate that most, if not all, of the work 
lost due to cancellations or the non-renewal 
of contracts in 2016 will be re-tendered in 
2017 and we remain well-positioned to 
secure these opportunities as they come  
to the market. 
We are actively advising our clients on  
the cost advantages that our SESV well 
intervention cantilever and top drive  
system will deliver. The system presents  
a number of opportunities for GMS  
to perform additional well intervention 
operations more efficiently than currently 
provided by drilling rig operators, for 
example change out of electric submersible 
pumps and well completions. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
GMS Evolution showcasing the cantilever system at ADIPEC, Abu Dhabi. 11 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Europe
Despite the challenges of the oil price 
environment, we successfully maintained 
high utilisation in the European market, 
albeit partly through the renegotiation  
of charter rates. Decommissioning remains  
a significant source of potential demand  
for GMS in the North Sea, although the 
competing strategic and economic priorities 
of stakeholders in these offshore assets  
has meant that the scale of actual 
decommissioning progress is not yet  
as advanced as previously anticipated.  
GMS continues to engage with clients  
on developing these opportunities as  
our new cantilever designs for our Large  
Class SESVs lend themselves particularly 
well to the cost-effective plug and 
abandonment of old wells, a key step  
in the decommissioning process.
In the renewables sector new installation 
activity was low in 2016, resulting in large 
wind turbine installation vessels competing 
for accommodation work that had traditionally 
been carried out by similar vessels to our 
Large Class SESVs. The wind turbine market 
is expected to improve in 2017, which should 
result in more opportunities for any available 
GMS SESVs and less competition for work in 
the oil and gas sector.
Rest of World
A key step in developing our services in 
markets outside the Middle East and Europe 
was the establishment of our South East 
Asia office. Having our own regional 
presence working continuously and directly 
with clients alongside our partners will  
better position GMS for future geographic 
diversification. We continue to believe in  
the potential within those countries  
where factors such as water depth,  
weather conditions and ageing oil producing 
infrastructure lend themselves particularly 
to the use of our SESVs. 
Outlook
Whilst recognising oil prices will continue  
to influence our business, increasing  
tender activity is presenting significant 
opportunities for GMS in our core regions  
of Europe and the Middle East. This should 
lead to higher utilisation of our fleet and,  
in time, earnings growth for the business. 
We are looking forward to introducing to 
the market our pioneering well workover 
cantilever system installed on GMS Evolution 
this year, which will allow us to provide  
an even greater range of low cost well 
intervention services. We are very optimistic 
about the potential of this new service as 
our clients recognise the value it can bring  
to their businesses. 
Our focus remains on maximising utilisation 
whilst managing our costs appropriately  
and maintaining a stable capital structure, 
with cash conservation and deleveraging 
continuing to be key priorities. We expect 
the pace of recovery to build momentum, 
with utilisation increasing ahead of day 
rates. Whilst we anticipate some modest 
progress half-on-half in 2017, we are 
comfortable with expectations for the  
full year. I am confident that our modern 
fleet, leading operational experience and 
expanding technological capability places 
GMS in a good position to capitalise on new 
contract opportunities and to successfully 
grow our business in due course as our 
markets recover.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2017 12 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
CREA TE 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
OUR CORE V ALUES
Excellence
the SESVs we Operate
Design, Build and Enhance
Clients
Business Partners
Investors
Sta ﬀ
Communities and Wider Society
Governments
Excellence Deliver Operational
Utilisation
Maximise
Skilled Workforce
Retain a Highly 
 (HSE) Performance
Safety and Environmental
Maintain the Highest Levels of Health,
Relationships
Responsibility
OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR KEY ST AKEHOLDERS
Strategic Report
This service enables our clients primarily to 
carry out maintenance, modification and  
well services work on their offshore facilities, 
with each of our vessels providing a stable 
platform immediately adjacent to the 
installations. Our vessels provide the 
storage for materials and equipment 
necessary for the client’s work and 
accommodation for the workforce; clients 
can also directly carry out work from on 
board the vessel itself. 
We have developed an integrated approach 
focused around five key areas in order to 
deliver this business model. 
Design, build and enhance  
the SESVs we operate 
The Group has 40 years’ experience in the 
design and construction of the SESVs we 
operate and, as both a builder and operator, 
we are able to work closely with our  
clients to ensure our vessels meet their 
expectations in terms of operational 
efficiency, safety and cost. We are able  
to apply our in-house expertise and 
operational experience to develop further 
the design of our new vessels, incorporating 
additional features or adaptations that we 
believe will increase their operating 
efficiency. We can also respond rapidly to 
clients’ requests for bespoke modifications, 
which are made to the vessels at minimum 
cost to our clients. This in-house capability 
gives us a clear advantage over competitors 
who have to rely on third party shipbuilders 
to deliver changes in vessel design  
and performance. 
GMS leads the field in technological 
innovation and our specialist knowledge and 
understanding of our clients’ operational 
needs has enabled us to enhance our 
vessels over the years; this helps us to stay 
ahead of the competition, increasing our 
service offering and broadening our market. 
An example of a major enhancement of our 
offering is the development in recent years 
of our pioneering cantilever systems, which 
has expanded significantly the range of well 
services we can offer. More details on the 
development of a cantilever with an integral 
top drive for our Large Class vessel GMS 
Evolution can be found on page 27.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL 
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE  
FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS
The diagram above represents the Group’s business. The outer circle represents the environment in which GMS works. Within the diagram, 
our core values, which are central to everything we do, are captured along with the business model we apply to create shareholder value.
Our business model is centred on the provision of highly cost-effective and 
sophisticated self-propelled self-elevating support vessels to our national  
and international oil company clients and engineering, procurement and 
construction contractors operating in the offshore energy sector.  13 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
1982 2010 2017 2015
First purpose-built  
4-legged self-propelled  
SESV
Small Class
Low cost alternative  
“workhorse” for multi-move  
well servicing activities 
Greater stability than  
3-legged vessels and  
quicker jacking speeds
Large Class 
self-propelled  
SESV
Mid-Size Class
self-propelled
SESV 
Larger deck  
loads and greater 
water depth
* I n cr ea s e d  
transit speed
* D y na mi c Po s it io nin g 
systems (DPS)
* Increased crane load 
* H a r sh en v i r o n m en t 
capability (opening 
up new markets)
Same capability  
as Large-Class,  
but scaled down  
to provide lower  
cost solution/more 
choice for clients
First cantilever 
system with a well 
workover unit on  
a self-propelled 
SESV
1
In-house 
integrated  
well services 
package
2
 
Increased well 
intervention services
Expansion into  
a market sector 
currently served  
only by drilling  
rigs, offering GMS  
a competitive 
advantage
Bringing in-house 
specialist  services 
normally sub-
contracted,  
offering a more 
comprehensive 
cost-effective service 
for clients
Iterative improvement  
process on class design
Near-Term Medium-Term New Design New Design
Pioneers in the Gulf Next phases Building a fleet for the future 
Through close collaboration with clients  
on a project-by-project basis, we offer a 
cost-effective model that provides maximum 
efficiency and minimum non-productive time 
during clients’ mobilisations or operations, 
whilst maintaining the flexible multi-role 
design as part of the Group’s core strategy 
for high utilisation. More information on 
the flexibility of our fleet is on pages 15  
and 26. 
We use our own quayside facility in Abu Dhabi 
to construct, modify and maintain our vessels, 
which is advantageous as this enables us to 
manage closely our construction programme 
(which can often be more cost-effective than 
a traditional shipyard) and to gear any fleet 
expansion or modification according to our 
view of market demand. . 
Deliver operational excellence 
We continually strive for excellence in all 
aspects of our operations. Our skilled 
employees provide our clients with safe  
and high quality services from a fleet of 
sophisticated SESVs. In addition, we are 
constantly looking for ways to improve  
our offering through significant market 
knowledge and experience, technical 
expertise, client collaboration and by 
forming strategic business partnerships. 
GMS offers a range of benefits to its clients, 
resulting in greater operational efficiency 
and significant time and cost savings. All  
of our SESVs have a rapid jacking capability 
and have a four-leg design with better 
stability and jacking speed relative to 
three-legged SESVs. In addition, all of our 
SESVs are self-propelled and the Large  
Class and Mid-Size Class vessel designs 
include DP2, a dynamic positioning system 
that enhances the ability of SESVs to  
safely manoeuvre close to our clients’ 
offshore installations. 
These features also allow the vessels to 
move faster in-field than conventional 
non-propelled vessels. This offers a 
significant competitive advantage for 
multi-move well location work and 
particularly lends itself to well services 
projects, whereby our clients can save 
considerable expenditure using one of  
our vessels instead of a more expensive 
drilling rig. We are focused on the efficient 
management of our fleet, with our in-house 
maintenance programme ensuring that 
timely repairs and routine maintenance  
have minimal effect on operations. 
Maximise utilisation 
The Group’s revenue is principally generated 
by the charter day rates we charge for each 
vessel. Our priority is to deliver high vessel 
utilisation and we target long-term contracts 
as these provide the benefit of more 
predictable cash flows. 
GMS is predominantly active in the 
brownfield phase of the oil and gas cycle, 
mainly supporting long-term oil production, 
traditionally in maintenance, refurbishment, 
repair, well services and decommissioning. 
This means that, while not immune, GMS is 
less prone to the cyclical nature of the oil 
industry than many oil service companies 
exposed to the capex-led exploration and 
development phases. Contract lengths for 
our vessels can range from short-term 
projects of less than a year up to around five 
* Also included with the Mid-Size Class vessels.
1 More detail on our pioneering cantilever system with a well workover unit can be found on page 27.
2 Information on our integrated package of well services can be found on page 24.
Expanding capability through innovation 14 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
years; wherever possible we try to secure 
long-term contracts that provide good 
revenue visibility. Contracts normally include 
both a firm and extension period; the client 
may exercise the extension as required. The 
majority of the Group’s revenue is currently 
sourced from the opex-led activities of our 
clients, who generally will have an ongoing 
requirement for an SESV. 
Maintain the highest levels of 
Health, Safety and Environmental 
(HSE) performance 
We place the highest priority on managing 
the risks inherent to our operations and 
comply with national and international  
HSE standards.
 
We employ an integrated management 
system covering the quality, health, safety 
and environmental principles and objectives 
of our business, which is implemented 
throughout all our offshore and onshore 
operations. This aims to provide innovative 
and sustainable solutions to monitor our 
HSE performance and continuously improve 
the necessary safeguards to protect our 
employees and minimise the impact on the 
environment. This system is fully ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 compliant, is 
externally audited and accredited, and is 
continually reviewed to capture best 
practice changes issued by the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers. We 
have also developed successfully UK and 
Dutch sector North Sea Safety Cases for the 
operation of our Large SESVs in that region. 
Information on our environmental reporting 
can be found on page 33.
Health and safety are considered by our 
clients when assessing bids for tenders and 
we regard our strong performance in this 
area as an advantage. We have consistently 
maintained low levels of lost time injuries 
(LTIs, meaning an injury that requires one or 
more days off work). Further details on our 
HSE performance can be found on page 24. 
Retain a highly skilled workforce 
GMS operates in an industry where staff 
mobility rates are relatively high and, as such, 
we seek to attract and retain high-calibre 
staff and ensure they are empowered to 
carry out their duties safely and effectively. 
We value the skills and experience of our 
employees and provide an environment, 
onshore and offshore, where everyone  
can perform to their full potential and be 
rewarded for delivering excellence. 
The niche nature of our sector means that 
skilled and capable offshore crew members 
are traditionally in limited supply (although at 
times of a low oil price environment there is  
a wider talent pool available for certain roles) 
and we therefore pay attention to developing 
talent from within our organisation. Our 
Competence Management System, based  
on recognised industry best practice, has as 
its purpose the integrated control of those 
activities within the company that will assure 
competency of personnel, particularly in 
safety critical activities.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 15 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Our strategy to create long-term shareholder value in GMS is to focus on 
maximising the utilisation of our SESV fleet, delivering good operating margins 
and maintaining a healthy balance sheet. T o help us achieve this, we deliver  
a high quality service to our clients in the offshore energy sector and capitalise 
on our industry-leading technological advances in order to expand our 
offering, increase our market share and broaden our geographical diversity. 
The Group has been successfully providing 
cost-effective and flexible offshore support 
solutions for 40 years and our knowledge and 
experience of our industry helps us to navigate 
the challenges of a low oil price environment. 
Our strategy makes us well-positioned to take 
advantage of new business opportunities  
as the market recovers. 
Provide vessel flexibility 
GMS is at the forefront of technological 
innovation and has one of the largest and 
most advanced SESV fleets in the world.  
Our ability to design, build, maintain and 
modify our own vessels enables us to have 
as flexible a fleet as possible and to tailor  
our services to the needs of our clients  
more cost-effectively than our competitors. 
This flexibility, whereby we can rapidly  
adapt the specifications and capabilities  
of our vessels, also allows us to target  
a sophisticated, less commoditised, niche 
sector where there is less competition for 
our cost-effective solutions. More information 
on our vessel flexibility can be found on 
page 26.
This strategy has been executed by the 
expansion of our SESV fleet during the 
period 2014 to the end of 2016, where we 
delivered on our objective to increase the 
number of vessels we operate by two-thirds, 
which also included the introduction of two 
new classes, and to ensure that our new 
vessels met the technical specifications  
we had identified as being especially useful 
for our clients’ operations going forward, and 
thereby increasing our market opportunities. 
Expand our services 
We continually look for ways to expand our 
offering, providing new ideas and enhanced 
services to meet our clients’ needs for 
increasingly efficient and cost-effective 
offshore support solutions. 
An example of how we progressed this 
strategy in recent years was the development 
of pioneering cantilever systems for our 
vessels that will allow us to deliver a greater 
range of services from our SESVs, and to 
carry out work that would otherwise be 
performed by more expensive non-propelled 
drilling rigs. A heavy duty cantilever that 
supports a well workover unit with an 
integral top drive has been installed on one 
of our Large Class vessels and is scheduled 
to be ready for operations in Q2 2017. No 
other operator has this cantilever capability 
on an SESV and we expect to roll this out  
on all our Large Class SESVs as more clients 
see the value this new concept brings to 
their businesses. This should increase our 
competitive advantage in the well services 
sector and significantly expand our market 
opportunities. More details on the 
development of this cantilever system  
can be found on page 27. 
We have also operated in the wind farm 
sector and, since our SESVs are capable  
of being adapted to support offshore 
renewable energy operations, we will seek to 
maximise the inherent maintenance support 
opportunities as this market matures over 
the longer-term.
Seek growth opportunities  
in existing and new markets 
We provide our clients with high quality 
cost-effective solutions that are ideally 
suited to their operational needs and this 
allows us to be considered for a wide range 
of work opportunities. Our strategy is to 
continue to build on our strong relationships 
with our long-standing valued clients, in 
addition to seeking business in new markets. 
We are seeking more contracts to support 
well intervention, enhanced oil recovery and 
decommissioning activities going forward,  
all areas we have identified as presenting 
further growth potential for GMS. We 
continue to see demand for our vessels in 
brownfield oil and gas opex-related work, 
notably for clients focused on production. 
Our opex-related contracts, which represent 
76% of our operations, still provide the  
most resilient business when compared  
to capex-related work, as we focus on  
maximising vessel utilisation. 
As we increase the range of services we 
offer, we are also well-placed to expand into 
other markets and where possible, we will 
seek to have a geographical balance in our 
operations by not limiting our operations  
to one country. This strategy should provide  
a greater diversification of revenue streams 
in the longer term. 
Attract and retain  
a talented workforce
Our strategy is to attract and retain talented 
people with the right skills mix, expertise 
and potential in order to maintain an agile 
and diverse workforce that can deliver our 
flexible offshore support services to our 
clients. Our people are central to the success 
of our business and we benefit from a highly 
experienced and motivated workforce.  
Our reputation for delivering operational 
excellence and the quality of our people  
is valued by our clients. 
Disciplined cash and balance  
sheet management
We seek to manage the finances of the 
business in a prudent manner, looking  
for sensible opportunities to invest  
to grow the business.
At times of lower vessel utilisation we  
aim to achieve the best possible margins. 
The recent low oil price environment 
impacted our vessel utilisation as some  
of our clients deferred maintenance 
activities. We took steps to reduce our  
costs through increased operational 
efficiency and the implementation of 
cost-cutting initiatives across the business 
during the year and, following the completion 
of our new build programme in December 
2016, to deleverage going forward. We will 
continue to focus on delivering operational 
excellence and disciplined cash and  
balance sheet management as we fulfil  
our strategic objectives. 
We recognise shareholder value can be 
created in a number of ways; as the market 
recovers and this is reflected in results, 
there should be scope to increase returns  
to shareholders, including dividends.
OUR STRATEGY 16 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Group uses a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to 
measure its performance and review the impact of its business strategy. 
The financial and operational KPIs adopted are kept under review to 
ensure that we focus on achieving our strategic objectives whilst 
addressing the principal risks facing the Group.
KPI Description 2016 Performance
Revenue and utilisation
2014 2015 2016
US$ 197m
US$ 220m
US$ 179m
97%
98%
70%
Revenue reflects the value of operating activities 
and is derived primarily from the day rates and 
utilisation levels achieved.
SESV utilisation is the percentage of days SESVs are 
chartered on a day rate out of total available days.
The decline in revenue is a result  
of reduced utilisation rates of SESVs 
combined with reduced charter rates 
on certain contracts.
The reduction in utilisation is mainly 
as a result of the sustained low oil 
price which affected demand for  
our fleet.
Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted  
EBITDA margin
2014 2015 2016
US$ 125m
US$ 139m
US$ 107m
64%
63%
60%
Adjusted EBITDA is a key profit measure and means 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, excluding non-operational items. 
Adjusted EBITDA margin demonstrates our ability  
to convert revenue into profit.
Adjusted EBITDA declined year on 
year mainly reflecting the decrease  
in revenue during the year. 
The adjusted EBITDA margin 
remained reasonable overall  
mainly as a result of effective  
cost management.
Adjusted net income and DEPS
2014 2015 2016
US$ 81m
US$ 85m
US$ 51m
DEPS
$0.24
DEPS
$0.14
DEPS
$0.24
Adjusted net income measures the net profitability 
of the business excluding non-operational items.
Adjusted DEPS means fully diluted earnings  
per share, which measures the level of net profit 
excluding non-operational items per ordinary  
share outstanding.
Adjusted net income declined 
reflecting the decline in revenue as  
a result of reduced utilisation, and 
charter rates on certain contracts.
The reduction in adjusted DEPS  
is in line with the decline in earnings  
for the year. 
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA
2014 2015 2016
2.19
2.88
3.39
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA is the ratio of net  
debt at year end to earnings before interest,  
tax, depreciation and amortisation, excluding 
non-operational items. 
This KPI demonstrates the Group’s level of 
borrowing against operating cash flows.
The KPIs shown for 2014 and 2015 included finance 
lease obligations as determined by the previous 
banking covenants.
The net debt to adjusted EBITDA 
ratio has increased during the year 
primarily reflecting the reduced 
EBITDA in the year, combined with 
increased borrowings as the Group 
continued to invest in the new  
build programme. 
DEPS – Adjusted DEPS Bars – Adjusted Net Income
% – Adjusted EBITDA Margin Bars – Adjusted EBITDA
% – SESV utilisation Bars – Revenue 17 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
KPI Description 2016 Performance
Backlog
2014 2015 2016
US$ 739m
US$ 580m
US$ 209m
*
Backlog shows the total order book of contracts 
(comprising firm and option periods) at year end. 
The Group uses this KPI as an indication of future 
revenue and utilisation levels.
*  The backlog figure in 2016 includes changes in backlog up to  
1 March 2017.
The reduction in backlog reflects 
some of the fleet being off hire for 
extended periods during the year and 
certain clients opting for shorter term 
contracts than in previous years.
New build programme delivery New build programme delivery KPIs measure how 
successful the Group has been in managing vessel 
construction projects in terms of cost control and 
delivery schedule.
Delivery of our Mid-Size Class vessel 
on schedule and within budget in 2016 
demonstrates our continued effective 
project delivery and cost control.
The delivery of a Large Class vessel 
Evolution was on time and within 
budget per the original design plans. 
The vessel is currently undergoing 
modifications to install a cantilever 
system that, once complete, will 
classify the vessel as a mobile 
offshore drilling unit, capable of 
performing a wider range of well 
intervention work.
Employees
2014 2015 2016
573
692
682
91%
88%
90%
Offshore staff retention shows the percentage  
of senior officers (masters and chief engineers)  
who continued to be employees in the period.  
The percentages shown do not take into account 
employee redundancies.
Average FTE employees means the average  
number of full time equivalent employees throughout 
the year which provides an indication of the  
Group’s service capacity and scale of operations.
The Group’s continued focus on 
retention policies for key personnel  
has enabled it to hold on to key 
personnel with a 3% decline in offshore 
staff retention during the year.
Average FTE employees was lowered 
as the Group continues to rationalise 
its headcount in the current oil price 
environment and as the new build 
programme neared completion.  
The number of FTE employees has 
reduced from 790 at 31 December 
2015 to 471 at 31 December 2016.
TRIR & LTIR
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0
2014 2015 2016
0.25
0.18
0.20
0.03
0.05
0.0
TRIR is the total recordable injury rate per 200,000 
man hours, which provides a measure of the  
frequency of recordable injuries.
LTIR is the lost time injury rate per 200,000 man  
hours which is a measure of the frequency of injuries 
requiring employee absence from work in the year  
for a period of one or more days.
Offshore man hours are calculated based on  
a 24 hour working period. 
The slight increase in the TRIR arises 
from reduced man hours as the 
Group incurred fewer recordable 
incidents in 2016 compared to the 
previous year.
The decrease in the LTIR illustrates 
the Group’s commitment to delivering 
the highest standards of safety.
Year New vessels delivered On schedule Within budget
2016 Sharqi
2015 Pepper
Shamal
Scirocco
2014 Enterprise
% – Offshore staff retention Bars – Average FTE employees
 = TRIR  = LTIR 18 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Risk 
Management
Process
Senior Management
The senior managment team implements 
the risk management process from 
risk identiﬁcation through 
to mitigation.
Board of Directors
The Board has overall responsibility 
for ensuring the eﬀective 
management of risks.
Internal Audit
There are clear reporting lines from the 
internal audit function to the Audit 
and Risk Committee and the senior 
management team.
Audit and Risk Committee
Responsibilities include reviewing the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems 
as well as monitoring the eﬀectiveness of 
the Group’s internal audit function.
Evaluation
Mitigation
Identi ﬁcation
Analysis
Strategic Report
The effective identification, management and mitigation of business risks and 
opportunities across the Group are a key priority of the business and integral 
to the successful delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives. The Group has  
a robust risk management system in place to support the identification, 
analysis, evaluation, mitigation and ongoing monitoring of risks as shown  
in the risk management framework below.
Business risks across the Group 
are addressed in a systematic 
and consistent way through the 
risk management framework, 
which has clear lines of reporting 
and communication to deal with 
risk management and internal 
control issues. The Group’s 
process for identifying and 
managing risks is embedded  
in its organisational  
structure, operations and  
management systems.
The Board has overall 
responsibility for ensuring that 
risks are effectively managed. 
However, the Audit and Risk 
Committee has been delegated 
the responsibility for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control and  
procedures for the identification,  
assessment, management, 
mitigation and reporting of risk. 
The internal control process 
starts with identifying risks, 
compliance matters and other 
issues through regular reviews 
carried out by process owners 
and facilitated by individual 
departmental risk assessments 
where the process owners 
regularly assess the implications 
and consequences and 
determine the likelihood  
of occurrences. The risks 
associated with the delivery  
of the strategy, business plan, 
annual work programme as  
well as the associated mitigation 
measures, are maintained in 
a series of departmental risk 
registers which are consolidated  
and reviewed by the senior 
management team to formulate 
the Group risk management 
process. The outcomes of  
risk identification and control 
assessments are formally 
reported to the senior 
management team and 
escalated to the Audit and  
Risk Committee and Board, as 
appropriate. The Board regularly 
reviews all key risks facing the 
Group as part of the Group risk 
management process which 
ensures that the Board satisfies 
the UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirement to perform  
a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the 
Company, including those that 
would threaten its business 
model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
The Group’s internal audit 
function has been largely 
outsourced to a specialist team 
provided by a reputable third 
party. All internal audit activity 
conducted by the internal audit 
team is done under the direction 
and leadership of the Finance 
Director, who reports to the 
Chief Financial Officer, but the 
team also has an independent 
reporting line to the Chairman  
of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
In the light of the internal 
auditors’ recommendations, 
Management agrees and 
implements corrective action 
plans, which are tracked to 
completion by the internal audit 
team, with the results reported 
regularly to the Audit and Risk 
Committee and the Board.
RISK MANAGEMENT 19 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Principal risks and uncertainties 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in the short to medium term are set out below, together with the principal mitigation 
measures. These risks are not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks that may arise in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.
Key:  Risk has increased since 2015  No material change in risk since 2015  Risk has reduced since 2015
Risk Risk profile
Assessment 
of change  
in risk Mitigation, monitoring and assurance
Strategic The macroeconomic environment 
influences the demand for our 
services. A sustained period of low oil 
prices could affect the demand for the 
Group’s oil extraction support services. 
This could lead to lower utilisation or 
lower charter day rates causing profit 
margins to fall. 
Significant changes in the market-place 
as a result of the actions of our 
competitors or the entrance of new 
competitors may jeopardise our 
market share or adversely affect 
utilisation levels or charter  
day rate levels achieved.
Over-exposure to any one geographic 
market or loss of a major client or a 
reduction in activity of a major client 
could impact our performance.
Construction and modification flexibility for clients
Our vessels are built to be as flexible as possible allowing us to 
compete for a wide share of the market, helping us to maximise 
utilisation levels and charter day rates. The Group is also able  
to more easily modify assets in its own yard to satisfy client 
requirements where necessary. 
Focus on low cost of production areas such as MENA 
A substantial proportion of the Group’s client base and revenues  
are generated in the MENA region, where the cost of oil production  
is generally lower than in other parts of the world. 
 
Growth and expansion
The Group has expansion of its geographical footprint as one of its 
long-term strategic aims as it seeks to diversify into other markets. 
Where possible we strive to have a geographical balance of our 
operations by not limiting our portfolio of clients to one country. 
In addition we are further expanding the range of well activities that 
our vessels can perform. The Group recently developed the cantilever 
concept for its Large Class vessels. It is anticipated that this concept 
should significantly expand our service offering, allowing the Group  
to compete for a greater range of well services work. It remains the 
intention of the Group to further expand the fleet, subject to future 
market demand.  
 
Opex v capex
The Group provides cost-effective services mainly in the opex phase  
of oil companies’ budgets, supporting long-term oil production which 
historically has tended to be less cyclical than capex phase work.  
 
Cost management
The Group is focused on controlling costs in order to help achieve 
appropriate profit margins whilst having the ability to offer competitive 
pricing to clients. 
Commercial The reliance of the Group on a limited 
number of blue chip clients may 
expose us to losses in the event of 
client relationship disruptions.
The Group may not be able to win new 
contracts or retain existing contracts 
including clients not opting to exercise 
contractual option periods because of 
the actions of competitors. This could 
lead to lower vessel utilisation or lower 
charter day rates causing profit 
margins to fall.
The Group may not be able to secure 
long-term contracts or certain clients 
could cancel contracts, which may lead to 
commercial downtime between contracts 
and lower overall average utilisation.
Flexibility and innovation 
We seek to continually improve our offering through innovation 
including new vessel designs and specification improvements  
by responding directly to client feedback.
Market knowledge and operational expertise
The Group has a clear record of established long-term relationships  
in the MENA region and North West Europe, which helps provide a clear 
understanding of our clients’ requirements and operating standards. 
We believe that the Group continues to have a competitive edge over 
most other alternative providers of vessels through our operational 
expertise and the high quality specifications of our offshore solutions. 
Tender approach
We compete in tenders for all vessels nearing the end of their firm 
contracts, ensuring that, if a client chooses not to exercise their option, 
other opportunities should not be missed. The Group continually 
monitors and tracks its pipeline of new contract opportunities.
When negotiating contracts, where possible, the Group seeks to 
exclude client termination rights. In addition, our robust operating 
standards result in minimal downtime which helps ensure that clients 
are not given cause to cancel contracts through non-performance.  20 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
Risk Risk profile
Assessment 
of change  
in risk Mitigation, monitoring and assurance
Financial Macro and micro economic events, 
such as a sustained low oil price, may 
impact our ability to raise finance, 
achieve forecast, effectively manage 
our working capital and service our 
financial obligations.
A sustained reduction in charter  
day rates and/or utilisation levels  
could lead to a breach in certain  
debt covenants.
Failure of the Group to service its  
debts and comply with debt covenants 
could result in negative repercussions 
for the Group including restriction  
of funding.
The Group may use external funding in 
financing major projects, and inability to 
obtain the required funding may hamper 
the successful undertaking of capital-
intensive projects.
Key performance indicators
Transparent KPIs are used for reporting to track progress. The KPIs 
are reviewed regularly to ensure Management has all the necessary 
information to make timely financial decisions.
Availability of funding
The Group has a committed banking facility in place that provides 
access to funding and now that the current new build programme  
is coming to an end, the Group is forecast to begin deleveraging. 
Policies and procedures
We adhere to Group-wide financial and accounting policies which 
underpin our approach to risk management. 
Management and Board reporting
The Management and the Board regularly monitor the Group’s debt 
obligations and funding requirements and seek to ensure that 
sufficient funds are always in place to meet the needs of the business 
as well as maintaining adequate headroom over debt covenants thus 
minimising the risk of breach. 
Health, 
Safety, 
Security, 
Environment 
and Quality
The Group may suffer commercial  
and reputational damage as a result  
of an environmental or safety incident 
involving our employees, visitors  
or contractors.
Our operations have an inherent 
safety risk due to our offshore 
operations. We have a fundamental 
obligation to protect our people and 
recognise the implications of poor 
safety procedures.
Safety awareness 
Safety and assurance continues to be a top priority and is underpinned 
by our HSSEQ management system and strong safety-focused culture. 
Management ensures appropriate safety practices and procedures, 
disaster recovery plans and the insurance coverage of all commercial 
contracts are in place both prior to acceptance and during contract delivery. 
Training and compliance
Our employees undergo continuous training and sensitisation on 
operational best practices.
Scheduled maintenance
The Group follows regular maintenance schedules on its vessels and 
the condition of the vessels is consistently monitored. 
Compliance  
and 
regulation
Non-compliance with anti-bribery and 
corruption regulations could damage 
stakeholder relations and lead to 
reputational and financial loss.
Failure to appropriately identify and 
comply with laws and regulations and 
other regulatory statutes in new and 
existing markets could lead to  
regulatory investigations.
Code of conduct
The Group has a Code of Conduct with which employees are required 
to comply when conducting business on behalf of the Group; this 
includes anti-bribery and corruption policies.
Due diligence
Prior to venturing into new markets, the Group performs substantial 
due diligence work and obtains an understanding of the governing laws 
and regulations. Group legal and external counsel support are utilised 
as necessary.
Operational There is a risk that the Group’s assets 
may not be fit for purpose or may fail 
to operate in the manner intended by 
Management. Failure to deliver the 
expected operational performance 
could result in reputational damage, 
litigation, reduced profit margins or 
loss of clients.
Changes in the political regimes, civil 
and political unrest or sanctions in the 
jurisdictions in which we operate could 
adversely affect our operations.
Vessel monitoring 
The Group constantly monitors the condition of the vessels and other 
equipment which undergo mandatory dry docking within the specified 
timeframes. The Group has policies and procedures in place such as 
the Planned Maintenance System to ensure that the vessels undergo 
regular preventative maintenance.
Emergency plans and insurance
For all our major assets and areas of operation, the Group maintains 
emergency preparedness plans. We regularly review the insurance 
coverage over the Group’s assets to ensure adequate cover is in place.
Constant review
The Group remains vigilant to potential changes and risks and may 
engage with governments and legal counsel to ensure a 
comprehensive view of our stakeholders is presented. The Group 
constantly monitors the ever-changing political landscape in the 
regions that are considered volatile or unpredictable.
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 21 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Risk Risk profile
Assessment 
of change  
in risk Mitigation, monitoring and assurance
People The Group’s success depends on our 
ability to attract and retain sufficiently 
qualified and experienced personnel, 
particularly at senior management levels. 
Failure to attract, develop and retain 
sufficient competent crew to support 
our clients’ needs could result in 
operational issues on-board vessels.
Succession planning
The Group maintains detailed management succession plans for key 
personnel which are monitored by the Group HR team. The current 
macroeconomic environment has resulted in a wider external talent 
pool available for certain roles within the Group.
As the Group’s new build programme has neared completion, key 
technical personnel who were involved in vessel construction projects, 
have been integrated within the Operations Department to assist in 
vessel modification and maintenance projects. This enables the Group to 
retain key technical skills and expertise in our fleet of high quality vessels.
Learning and development
The Group is committed to providing bespoke training and 
development paths for key personnel and invests heavily in learning 
and development with a major focus on regular training for our safety 
critical, senior operational and management roles. 
Competitive remuneration packages
The Group has a competitive remuneration structure that aims to 
attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified personnel through 
performance-based reward practices.
Investments Delays in completion or errors in 
assessing the impact of new strategic 
expansion projects could result in 
decreased margins and market share.
Board oversight
The Board has oversight of approving and monitoring strategic projects.
Project management 
Extensive project management controls and processes are adhered  
to throughout project life cycles.
Other considerations 
The Directors have given consideration 
to other risks that the Group may be 
exposed to including risks associated 
with climate change, cybersecurity,  
and the 2016 UK referendum in which  
a majority of the UK voted to exit  
the European Union. The Directors 
concluded that whilst these risks exist, 
overall they were not considered to be 
material and therefore did not constitute 
one of the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties.
Longer-term viability
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Directors have assessed the prospects 
of the Group over a three year period to 
December 2019. The Board believes that 
a viability assessment for a period of 
three years is appropriate for the 
following reasons:
(i) it aligns with the Group’s annual 
strategic plan which covers three years; 
(ii) the Company has a reasonable ability to 
forecast its likely contracting 
opportunities and successes up to  
three years;
(iii) a longer period of assessment is not 
considered appropriate given that a 
proportion of the variability in plans and 
budgets for the Company is influenced 
by sentiment surrounding oil price. 
The Board reviews annually and on a 
rolling basis the strategic plan for the 
business which Management 
progressively implements. The Group’s 
business model has proven to be 
resilient over the long term in previous 
down turns in the macroeconomic 
environment. 
The viability assessment takes into 
account expected future tender activity 
levels and the Group’s anticipated 
success in winning contracts. There are 
inevitably uncertainties attached to this 
assessment, and the Group’s business 
model was stress tested against a range 
of severe but possible adverse scenarios 
both individually and in combination to 
validate the robustness of the model 
and financial position (including 
consideration of compliance with 
banking covenants and loan repayment 
commitments) together with the 
effectiveness of mitigating actions 
available to the business. The assessment 
took into consideration the potential 
impact that the Group’s principal risks 
and uncertainties detailed above on 
pages 19 to 21, could have on the Group’s 
business model, liquidity and future 
performance over the review period.  
As part of its assessment the Directors 
have also considered the robust risk 
management framework in place to 
monitor and mitigate its exposure to  
the principal risks. The scenario analysis 
performed specifically considered the 
potential impact on our business of  
a sustained period of low oil prices, 
primarily through reducing revenues 
and cash inflows by incorporating 
prolonged reductions in charter day 
rates and utilisation levels.
Based on the results of this analysis  
the Board has concluded that there is  
a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three year period of the assessment.
Information contained within the Introduction on pages 1 to 5 and the Performance section on pages 24 to 33 of this document forms 
part of the Strategic Report by reference.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2017 22 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Operational Review 24
Financial Review 28 
Corporate Social Responsibility 32
PERFORMANCE 23 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 24 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Performance
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Operations
The Group’s fleet of 15 self-propelled SESVs is 
the largest in the world, with the majority of 
vessels located in the Middle East and two in 
Europe. The fleet is also one of the youngest 
in the industry, with an average age of just 
eight years. (This is based on four years for 
the Large Class vessels, two years for the 
Mid-Size Class and 12 years for the Small 
Class.) Our modern fleet has the benefit of 
being technologically advanced, which allows 
us to offer more cost-effective deployment 
and substantial operational efficiencies than 
are typically available from older and less 
sophisticated vessels. 
SESVs’ charter rates, utilisation 
and operating costs
As we had anticipated, the utilisation of our 
SESV fleet in H2 2016 was affected by the 
sustained low oil price environment as 
contracts for certain vessels expired and as 
we transitioned from old to new contracts. 
The utilisation rate for the year was 70% 
(98% in 2015), which is still healthy compared 
to the levels experienced in both the wider 
offshore support vessel and drilling rig 
sectors. Charter rates, as shown in the table 
below also sustained some downward 
pressure. Technical and operational uptime 
for contracted vessels for the year was  
100%. Operational activity during the year 
was predominantly in the maintenance, 
accommodation and well servicing sector 
with 197 rig moves (representing 304  
jacking cycles) and 123 client wells  
serviced without incident.
GMS’ business is heavily weighted towards 
clients’ opex-based activities, with oil and 
gas opex-led activities accounting for 76% 
and capex-led activities 24%.
The Group continues to maintain a very  
high focus on asset integrity and marine 
assurance. We normally warm stack our 
off-hire SESVs, meaning the vessel retains a 
minimal crew and all systems are maintained 
in readiness for rapid deployment, according 
to anticipated contract starts. We are able  
to warm stack our vessels in MENA at our 
construction and maintenance yard in Abu 
Dhabi at a much lower cost, around US$ 
2,000 per vessel per day, than our peers  
who rely on third party shipyards and ports. 
Cold stacking our vessels costs approximately 
50% less than warm stacking. 
 
As discussed in the 2016 Interim Results,  
a series of cost-saving initiatives has been 
implemented during the year, including 
efficiencies in the supply chain, quayside 
leasing expenditure, crew costs and overhead 
base (the latter two primarily through 
reorganisation and rationalisation). Further 
information on this can be found in the 
Financial Review on page 28.
HSSEQ
Health, safety and the environment continue 
to be our top priority. The total number of 
man hours worked was 6.0 million in 2016  
(7.7 million man hours in 2015). This was  
a very high level of activity as our new build 
programme was still underway during  
the year; as this has now been completed  
the man hours are expected to reduce 
significantly in future. The total recordable 
injury rate* was 0.20 in 2016. Unfortunately, 
there was one lost time injury* (LTI) during 
the period (two LTIs were sustained in 2015). 
We are committed to providing all our 
personnel with a quality and safe working 
environment at all times whilst under our 
duty of care and will maintain our focus  
on HSE, with zero incidents continuing  
to be the target. 
In-house capability to build, 
maintain and enhance the  
SESVs we operate 
The SESV new build programme, commenced 
in 2014 to expand the fleet by a further six 
vessels, was completed on time and within 
budget by the end of 2016. The Mid-Size 
Class GMS Sharqi was delivered in Q1 2016. 
The Large Class GMS Evolution was 
completed in Q4 2016, with further work on 
the installation and testing of a cantilever 
system on the vessel (as described below 
and on page 27) continuing into Q2 2017. 
Future development of the fleet is likely to 
focus on the further extension of our service 
offering. The Group continues to benefit from 
the competitive advantage that our 
well-established in-house facility provides, 
which allows us to maintain, modify and 
enhance our vessels much more cost-
effectively than our peers who rely on 
third party shipyards. 
Expansion of well services
GMS’ technical and operations departments 
have been researching pioneering cantilever 
systems for our Large Class SESVs in recent 
years as part of our strategy to expand our 
well services capabilities. In 2016 we designed 
and developed, in partnership with Dwellop 
A.S., a cantilever system with a well workover 
unit complete with a top drive for GMS 
Evolution. This system, which is anticipated  
to be ready for operations from Q2 2017 
following the completion of sea trials, will 
allow us to provide a greater range of 
services from the vessel and to carry out 
work that would otherwise be performed  
by more expensive and less efficient 
* Please refer to the Glossary.
The table below provides a summary of our key performance metrics.
Small Class
2016 2015
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 35 40
Utilisation 64% 96%
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 7 10
Mid-Size Class
2016 2015
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 51 54
Utilisation 61% 100%
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 14 17
Large Class
2016 2015
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 64 82
Utilisation 91% 100%
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 14 21
The Group has a secured backlog of US$ 209.2 million as at 1 March 2017. 25 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
non-propelled jackup drilling rigs. Details on 
the development of the cantilever for GMS 
Evolution can be found on pages 27.
In order to support GMS Evolution’s enhanced 
well services capability, we have employed 
well operations onshore and offshore 
personnel and developed a comprehensive 
Well Intervention Management System that 
interfaces with our existing Integrated 
Management System. We have also enhanced 
our operational expertise in order to deliver 
the service to our clients by partnering  
with Odfjell, a leading drilling entity with the 
necessary specialist knowledge to operate 
the drilling and workover equipment.
One of the well servicing activities carried out 
from our vessels is downhole pumping and 
cementing and we have traditionally delivered 
this service for our client by sub-contracting 
highly skilled petroleum engineers who would 
join our crew for the duration of the work. We 
identified an opportunity to bring this activity 
in-house and brought in our own specialist 
personnel, developed a management system 
and on board operating and maintenance 
procedures that have been fully endorsed  
by our clients and purchased new equipment 
consisting of heavy-duty pumps, tanks and 
batch mixers. We provided this service in  
2016 for the first time and have had excellent 
feedback from our clients. We not only 
lowered our cost base through this initiative 
but, very importantly, we increased the 
quality of our service provision and moved 
GMS closer to well operations. 
It is our strategic ambition to continually 
innovate and seek to differentiate our service 
provision from our competitors, and one of 
the ways we can do this is by offering our 
clients a more extensive and integrated 
package of well intervention services across 
our SESV fleet. It is our intention over the 
medium-term to bring in-house more of the 
ancillary services we normally sub-contract 
(as we have done with pumping and 
cementing, and could do for coil tubing and 
wireline provision for example) and to partner 
with other specialist providers so that we  
can offer the widest possible range of 
services, all of which will be managed by GMS. 
This comprehensive offering will maximise 
operational efficiency and should help us to 
remain highly cost-effective for our clients. 
Markets 
Middle East
The prolonged low oil price environment  
has shifted focus amongst our key regional 
customers away from increasing production 
targets to reduced operating costs. The 
extent to which this cost focus affected GMS 
varied amongst our clients and, in certain 
instances, this resulted in a number of 
contracts being terminated early or extension 
options not exercised. In other cases we have 
successfully renegotiated contracts at lower 
day rates but maintained the term of the 
contract. Oil prices are recovering and we 
have been seeing an increase in the number 
of tender opportunities. It is anticipated that 
most, if not all, of the work lost due to 
cancellations or the non-renewal of contracts 
in 2016 will be re-tendered in 2017, as our 
clients’ again focus on production targets. 
We are continuing to advise our clients in the 
region about the cost-effective benefits that 
our new SESV well intervention cantilever  
and top drive concept will deliver. We have 
identified specific opportunities, such as 
change out of electric submersible pumps  
or well completions, where the cantilever 
system will allow us to perform additional well 
intervention operations more efficiently than 
currently available from drilling rig operators. 
Europe
Despite the challenges of the low oil price, 
utilisation in the European market has been 
maintained, albeit at lower day rates than 
2015. A charter ending at the beginning  
of 2017 has been successfully replaced by 
medium-term work for a new blue chip  
client for GMS. Decommissioning remains  
a significant source of potential demand  
for GMS services in the North Sea, although 
the competing strategic and economic 
priorities of stakeholders in these offshore 
assets has meant that the scale of actual 
decommissioning progress is not yet  
as advanced as previously anticipated.  
GMS continues to engage with clients on 
developing decommissioning opportunities  
as our new cantilever designs for our  
Large Class SESVs lend themselves 
particularly well to the cost-effective plug  
and abandonment of old wells, a key step  
in the decommissioning process.
In the renewables sector new installation 
activity was low in 2016, resulting in large wind 
turbine installation vessels competing for 
accommodation work that had traditionally 
been carried out by similar vessels to our 
Large Class SESVs. The wind turbine market 
is expected to improve in 2017, which should 
result in more opportunities for any available 
GMS SESVs and less competition for work in 
the oil and gas sector.
Rest of World
A key step in developing our services in 
markets outside the Middle East and Europe 
was the establishment of our South East 
Asia office in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. This 
office will continue to develop opportunities 
within those regional countries where 
factors such as water depth and ageing oil 
producing infrastructure lend themselves 
particularly to the use of our SESVs. This 
market has previously been covered remotely 
using local partners and agents. Having our 
own regional presence working continuously 
and directly with clients alongside our 
partners will better position GMS for future 
geographic diversification.
West Africa and Mexico, other markets that 
have potential for the employment of our 
SESVs, have produced very few tender 
opportunities in 2016. The Nigerian market 
for SESV services continues in a state of  
flux; this is due to both the oil price pressures 
and, on the supply side, the potential sale  
of the largest but ageing fleet in the West  
Africa region. 
Summary
GMS achieved a respectable level of 
utilisation for its SESV fleet in 2016 despite 
the backdrop of a very subdued market. 
Operationally, we performed well with 
strong technical uptime and we took some 
significant steps forward as we progress  
our strategy to increase our services  
and widen our market share. There are  
clear signs of an improving commercial 
environment and we remain confident  
that GMS is well-positioned to maximise 
opportunities as the market recovers.  26 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Performance
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
The Group’s SESVs are chartered to a  
high quality worldwide client base and  
are used as customised work platforms  
in the offshore oil, gas and renewable  
energy sectors. 
The vessels are operated by skilled 
employees and support our clients in a  
broad range of offshore oil and gas platform 
refurbishment and maintenance activities, 
well intervention work and offshore wind 
turbine maintenance work (which are 
opex-led activities) and offshore oil and gas 
platform installation and decommissioning, 
and offshore wind turbine installation  
(which are capex-led activities). 
Our fleet of young and technically advanced 
SESVs has a non-commoditised nature  
that allows competition against a diverse 
range of marine assets, including drilling rigs, 
accommodation service barges (non-propelled) 
and floating construction vessels. The  
SESVs are four-legged vessels that move 
independently and have a large deck  
space, crane capacity and accommodation 
facilities that can be readily adapted to the 
requirements of the Group’s clients. 
Our four-legged design represents a 
significant competitive advantage over the 
more traditional non-propelled, three-legged 
barges available in the market, both in terms 
of speed in jacking and safety. Our SESVs  
are all self-propelled. The Large Class and 
Mid-Size Class vessel designs include DP2,  
a dynamic positioning system that enhances 
the ability of the SESVs to safely manoeuvre 
close to clients’ offshore installations.  
These features all enable an increase in the 
speed of movement around a client’s field  
of assets and remove the need for costly 
support vessels. 
Some of the specific benefits of our fleet are:
• Well intervention activities that require 
frequent changes in location are ideally 
suited to our self-propelled SESVs, which 
do not need costly support vessels. 
• The ability to relocate quickly within  
small weather windows allows our clients 
to work more efficiently. This in turn 
provides them with an immediate benefit 
through increased production as a result 
of the intervention performed.
ADVANCED DESIGN AND FLEXIBILITY  
– BENEFITS OF THE GMS FLEET
Our technological expertise and operational experience enable us to 
provide our clients with a flexible fleet and enhanced services, which 
helps us to maximise vessel utilisation.
Topside maintenance
Commissioning and 
accommodation
Well intervention
• Accommodation can be installed, for 
150 to 300 persons, along with multiple 
access routes to the client facility. This 
allows clients to simultaneously open 
up multiple work fronts and achieve 
high levels of productivity.
• The high-capacity cranes are able  
to support construction and 
commissioning activities offshore 
where specialist crane barges would 
have previously been required, in 
addition to the accommodation barge.
• Cantilever systems fitted to the decks 
of our SESVs will allow us to increase 
significantly the well intervention 
activities that can be carried out from 
our vessels, to include operations that 
have traditionally been performed  
by more expensive non-propelled 
drilling rigs. Further information on  
the cantilever system is on page 27.
• The large stable deck space on our 
vessels allows clients to carry out  
work in a safe, fixed environment.  27 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
1   Dwellop A.S. is a leading Norwegian designer and former Rolls Royce Marine company. The cantilever and equipment technology  
was developed for the harsh environment of the North Sea under the quality requirements of Rolls-Royce.
2   ADIPEC – Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference. ADIPEC hosts more than 2,000 exhibitors (including 15 
international oil companies and 20 national oil companies) and attracts around 100,000 trade professionals from 135 countries.
ENHANCING  
OUR OFFERING
The cantilever system on GMS Evolution 
will be ready for operations from Q2 2017.
An important part of our strategy is to 
combine the technological expertise we have 
in designing and building our own vessels 
with the operational experience we acquire 
by operating them for our clients, in order to 
continually find ways to enhance our offering 
and maintain a lead on our competitors. 
An example of a major enhancement to  
our offering has been the successful 
development of a pioneering well intervention 
cantilever system for our Large Class SESVs. 
This, designed in partnership with Dwellop 
A.S.
1
, will allow us to provide a greater  
range of services from our vessels and to 
carry out work that would otherwise have 
been performed by more expensive 
non-propelled drilling rigs.
In November 2016 we unveiled at ADIPEC
2
, 
the international oil and gas exhibition in Abu 
Dhabi, our first heavy duty well intervention 
cantilever, fitted to our new build Large  
Class vessel GMS Evolution. This cantilever 
supports a well workover unit with an integral 
top drive and is an industry first; no other 
company offers this capability from an SESV. 
This is now in its final development phase 
and is scheduled to be ready for operations 
from Q2 2017 following the successful 
completion of sea trials. 
The benefits of an SESV workover 
cantilever system – GMS Evolution
Equipped with its well intervention cantilever 
and top drive, GMS Evolution is able to 
supplant higher cost non-propelled drilling 
rigs on workover projects by offering greater 
operational efficiencies, quicker servicing 
times and lower costs. This complete system 
allows us to perform operations such as 
plugging and abandonment, light drilling, 
change out of electric submersible pumps 
and completions.
Numerous wells requiring workover and 
intervention are supported and accessed 
through a well head tower or platform. Many 
of these platforms were installed some years 
ago and their infrastructure will not support 
the weight of intervention equipment. 
Historically, these wells would be worked  
over by an expensive jackup drilling rig.  
The GMS cantilever system allows us to  
skid a workover unit over the well without 
passing any load to the platform or tower. 
The system is also highly automated and  
is therefore quicker than conventional  
methods previously used for most  
workover operations.
Our four-legged SESVs can move locations 
in-field in less than a day, while three-legged 
drilling rigs without self-propulsion require 
support vessels and at least three days to 
move a similar distance. The GMS SESV 
therefore requires a much shorter weather 
window for each move, increasing the 
probability of a suitable weather window 
occurring and significantly reducing the risk 
of a weather delay. Since there is no 
requirement for tugs or similar support 
vessels to move our SESVs, as there would be 
with a drilling rig, our clients will benefit from 
significant savings in both their third party 
operational costs and the non-productive 
time lost due to weather and rigging up time 
when compared to drilling rigs. The combined 
benefits of these economies and efficiencies 
will deliver approximately a 25% time saving 
on a single move using a GMS SESV with a 
well workover cantilever compared to the 
same activity performed by a conventional 
non-propelled jackup drilling rig; this excludes 
any savings to clients from the more 
competitive charter rates of our vessels 
versus those of a drilling rig. 
A compelling combination in the 
current market and for clients’ 
continuing operations 
Our innovative cantilever systems give us  
a highly competitive advantage over less 
capable vessels carrying out similar work and 
this, combined with the flexibility and greater 
operational efficiency of our vessels, presents 
a compelling case for clients seeking safe  
and more cost-effective solutions for their 
projects. We are pleased to see our clients 
recognising the value our SESVs bring to 
intensive well intervention campaigns across 
multiple locations and strongly believe that 
our well workover cantilever systems will  
be an attractive proposition for our clients 
both in the current market and when oil  
prices increase. 
Self-propelled SESV arrives alongside the 
well head.
SESV jacks up rapidly.
Cantilever workover unit slides from the 
SESV over the well head. 28 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Performance
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Summary
The Group delivered satisfactory results for 
2016 against the background of challenging 
market conditions. Revenue for the year was 
US$ 179.4 million (2015: US$ 219.7 million) and 
we achieved an adjusted EBITDA margin of 
60% (2015: 63%) with 2016 adjusted EBITDA 
of US$ 106.8 million (2015: US$ 138.5 million). 
Net profit for 2016 of US$ 29.4 million (2015: 
US$ 75.0 million) reflects a non-operational 
and non-cash impairment charge (recognised 
in cost of sales) of US$ 21.3 million related to 
non-core assets and a leased vessel that is 
unlikely to be acquired. Adjusted net profit 
after taxation for 2016 was US$ 50.7 million 
(2015: US$ 84.9 million) and adjusted diluted 
EPS was 14.35 cents (2015: 24.05 cents).
Our focus remains on maintaining a stable 
financial structure and continuing to  
manage our costs appropriately with cash 
conservation and deleveraging being  
key priorities.
The Group continues to have a sound 
financial base with a stable balance sheet  
and strong operating cash flows. Total capital 
expenditure for 2016 of US$ 106.0 million 
(2015: US$ 205.4 million) was primarily spent 
on construction of new vessels (US$ 95.4 
million). The Group had undrawn committed 
bank facilities of US$ 145.0 million (2015: US$ 
225.0 million) at 31 December 2016. The net 
debt level (being bank borrowings less cash) 
increased to US$ 362.0 million at the year end 
(2015: US$ 304.3 million) mainly as a result of 
the continued investment in the new build 
programme. The Group’s net leverage ratio 
was 3.4 times (2015: 2.2 times) adjusted 
EBITDA at year end, well within the maximum 
permitted net leverage ratio of 5.0 times. Net 
borrowing is expected to peak at US$ 375.0 
million in Q1 2017. The Group is then expected 
to deleverage given its strong cash flow 
generation characteristics and the absence 
of significant committed capital expenditure.
The following sections discuss the Group’s 
adjusted results as the Directors consider 
that they provide a useful indicator of 
underlying performance. The adjusting 
items (non-operational costs) are discussed 
below in this review and a reconciliation 
between the adjusted and statutory  
results is contained in note 6.
Revenue and segmental profit 
Revenue decreased by 18% to US$ 179.4 
million in 2016 (2015: US$ 219.7 million) 
demonstrating the pressure on vessel 
demand and certain charter rates from a 
sustained low oil price. Our 2016 SESV fleet 
utilisation was 70% (2015: 98%) which, whilst 
satisfactory in this challenging market, 
clearly demonstrates the potential for  
future upside. 
The Small Class vessel segment made the 
largest contribution to Group revenue with 
US$ 76.8 million (2015: US$ 114.5 million). 
Revenue contribution from Large Class 
vessels was US$ 68.7 million (2015: US$ 86.4 
million), US$ 33.0 million (2015: US$ 14.5 
million) for Mid-size Class vessels and US$ 
0.9 million (2015: US$ 4.4 million) for Other 
vessels. The segmental profit, being gross 
profit excluding depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment, was US$ 55.9 million (2015: 
US$ 82.7 million) for Small Class vessels, US$ 
53.2 million (2015: US$ 64.6 million) for Large 
Class vessels, US$ 18.0 million (2015: US$ 10.1 
million) for Mid-size Class vessels, and a 
segmental loss of US$ 0.1 million (2015:  
profit of US$ 0.9 million) for Other vessels. 
74% of total Group revenue was derived 
from customers located in the MENA region 
in 2016 (2015: 72%) while the remaining 26% 
of revenue was earned from customers in 
Europe (2015: 28%). 
The backlog as at 1 March 2017 was US$ 
209.2 million comprising firm and option 
periods. When negotiating commercial  
terms with customers the Group seeks to 
maintain a balance between profitability  
and securing revenue visibility through 
contracted backlog.
Cost of sales and general and 
administrative expenses
We continue to be very conscious of 
managing our costs appropriately in the 
current environment. The Group expects to 
deliver the previously announced annualised 
cash cost saving targets of over 10% in our 
vessel operating costs and in excess of 15% 
in our general and administrative costs. 
These cost-saving initiatives included a 
lowering of our crew costs and overhead 
cost base through reductions in both 
headcount and salaries across the Group. 
We have also achieved efficiencies within  
our supply chain and operations, including 
reducing the rental costs for our principal 
maintenance and modification yard and 
quayside space. 
The challenging market environment during 
the year resulted in some of our fleet being 
off hire for more extended periods than 
previously. The Group warm stacked the off 
hire vessels in the Group’s own yard ready 
for deployment at a cost of approximately 
US$ 2,000 per day which is significantly 
lower than that of peers who have to use 
third party facilities. 
The benefits of the cost-saving initiatives 
started to be realised more fully during the 
second half of 2016. Cost of sales for the 
year on a cash basis, excluding depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges, 
reduced by 15% to US$ 52.4 million (2015: 
US$ 61.4 million). Cost of sales, excluding 
impairment charges, decreased by 4% to 
US$ 83.8 million (2015: US$ 87.5 million). 
General and administrative expenses were 
US$ 21.6 million in 2016 (2015: US$ 20.9 
million) and includes a 29% reduction in 
general and administrative expenses in  
the second half of 2016 compared to the 
first half of the year. As the volume of 
construction activities significantly  
scales down as we near completion of  
the cantilever programme, overhead 
expenditure relating to capex activities  
will also reduce further accordingly with 
corresponding material additional  
cash savings and a lower value of  
capitalised costs. 
The Group recognised an impairment  
charge of US$ 21.3 million in 2016 cost of 
sales on the Group’s non-core assets, 
included within the Other vessels segment, 
and a leased vessel included within the Small 
Class vessels segment, further details of 
which are discussed below.
US$ million 2016 2015
Revenue 179.4 219.7
Gross profit 74.3 132.2
Adjusted gross profit* 95.6 132.2
Adjusted EBITDA* 106.8 138.5
Net profit 29.4 75.0
Adjusted net profit* 50.7 84.9
Diluted earnings per share (US cents) 8.34 21.25
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (US cents)* 14.35 24.05
Proposed final dividend per share (pence) 1.20 1.20
* Alternative performance measure. Refer to Glossary on pages 122 to 123 for further details and definitions.  29 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Depreciation
Depreciation increased by 22% to US$ 28.2 
million (2015: US$ 23.2 million) arising from 
the additional depreciation (US$ 5.0 million) 
from the three new Mid-Size Class vessels. 
Two of the vessels were delivered in June 
and October 2015, and accordingly 2016 
constituted a full year of depreciation for 
these vessels. The third Mid-Size Class 
vessel was delivered in March 2016 with  
nine months depreciation being charged 
during 2016. 
Adjusted EBITDA 
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was US$ 106.8 
million (2015: US$ 138.5 million). The Group’s 
adjusted EBITDA margin in 2016 was 60% 
(2015: 63%) demonstrating the effective 
management of costs during the year. 
Finance costs and foreign 
exchange 
Net finance costs in 2016 were lower at US$ 
20.1 million (2015: US$ 33.5 million). After 
adjusting for the expensing of unamortised 
loan arrangement fees of US$ 9.9 million 
that arose on the previous bank facility, that 
was refinanced in 2015, net finance costs 
decreased by US$ 3.5 million year on year. 
This primarily reflects the benefits of the 
reduced borrowing margins following the 
refinancing of the Group’s long-term debt in 
December 2015 and the acquisition of a 
leased Small Class vessel during Q1 2016 
which resulted in a reduction of the finance 
lease interest payments for 2016. During the 
year US$ 2.4 million (2015: US$ 5.8 million) of 
finance costs were capitalised as part of the 
new build programme as directly 
attributable costs.
There was a net foreign exchange loss of 
US$ 1.0 million (2015: US$ 0.03 million) arising 
mainly from the impact of the 
announcement of the Brexit referendum 
results in June on the United States Dollar 
and the Pound Sterling exchange rate.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was US$ 1.4 
million (2015: US$ 2.1 million), representing 
4% of profit before taxation (2015: 3%).  
The Group’s effective tax rate has remained 
low overall demonstrating the significant 
proportion of profits earned in low or zero 
tax jurisdictions. 
Earnings 
Adjusted net profit decreased in 2016 to  
US$ 50.7 million (2015: US$ 84.9 million) 
mainly arising from the reduction in revenue 
in the year. The fully diluted adjusted 
earnings per share (DEPS) for the year 
decreased to 14.35 cents (2015: 24.05 cents). 
Adjusted DEPS is calculated based on 
adjusted profit after tax and a reconciliation 
between the adjusted and statutory profit, 
is provided in note 6. 
Dividends 
The Group’s dividend policy looks to reflect 
GMS’ earnings and cash flow characteristics, 
while also allowing the retention of sufficient 
funds to invest in long-term growth for the 
Group and ensure an appropriate capital 
structure is maintained.
The Group paid an interim dividend of 0.41 
pence per ordinary share on 3 October 2016 
to shareholders on the register at 
9 September 2016.
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share. Subject 
to shareholder approval, this will be paid on 
19 May 2017 to all ordinary shareholders 
who were on the register of members at 
close of business on 18 April 2017. This brings 
the total 2016 dividend to US$ 7.1 million. 
Capital expenditure 
The Group’s capital expenditure during the 
year was US$ 106.0 million (2015: US$ 205.4 
million). The main area of investment was 
additions to assets under the course of 
construction (Capital work in progress) of 
US$ 104.6 million (2015: US$ 139.2 million) 
which includes the construction of a Large 
Class vessel, a Mid-Size Class Vessel and the 
cantilever system. The Group currently has 
no plans to incur any significant capital 
expenditure in 2017 and beyond with 
ongoing committed capital expenditure 
anticipated to be approximately US$ 10.0 
million per annum. 
Cash flow and net debt 
The Group’s net cash flow from operating 
activities continued to be strong, reflected in 
a net inflow of US$ 126.3 million in 2016 
(2015: net inflow of US$ 125.0 million) mainly 
on account of a US$ 33.0 million decrease in 
receivables outstanding at year end. The net 
cash outflow from investing activities for 
2016 was US$ 149.2 million (2015: net outflow 
of US$ 189.8 million) which includes US$ 51.0 
million for the acquisition of a leased Small 
Class vessel in Q1 2016. The Group’s net cash 
flow relating to financing activities was an 
inflow of US$ 23.7 million (2015: net inflow of 
US$ 66.1 million). The decrease in outflows 
from investing activities and decrease in 
inflows from financing activities has mainly 
arisen from fewer capital projects during the 
year as we approached the end of our new 
build programme, resulting in lower capital 
expenditure and reduced drawdowns from 
our banking facilities. 
The net debt position (being bank 
borrowings less cash) as at 31 December 
2016 was US$ 362.0 million, compared to 
US$ 304.3 million as at 31 December 2015. 
The year end outstanding debt was  
US$ 463.7 million (2015: US$ 459.7 million) 
comprising bank borrowings of US$ 423.6 
million (2015: US$ 365.1 million) and finance 
lease obligations of US$ 40.1 million  
(2015: US$ 94.6 million). Undrawn committed  
bank facilities were US$ 145.0 million at  
year end (2015: US$ 225.0 million). Net debt 
is expected to reduce to approximately  
US$ 335.0 million at the end of 2017 and  
is forecast to peak at US$ 375.0 million  
in Q1 2017 following completion of the 
cantilever programme. 
 
In June 2016 the Group was granted 
amended banking covenants to increase  
the maximum permitted leverage ratio from 
4.0 times EBITDA to 5.0 times EBITDA. The 
Group’s net leverage ratio, being the ratio of 
net debt to adjusted EBITDA, was 3.4 times 
at year end (2015: 2.2 times). At the year  
end the Group was in full compliance with  
all its banking covenants and expects to 
remain so.
Balance sheet
The Group has a stable, well-financed 
balance sheet. A review of the major 
components of the balance sheet follows. 
Total current assets at 31 December 2016 
were US$ 85.5 million (2015: US$ 120.7 
million). This movement is mainly 
attributable to a decrease in trade and  
other receivables to US$ 23.9 million (2015: 
US$ 59.9 million) reflecting a decrease in 
outstanding collections from customers.  
As the Group’s customers are mainly  
NOCs and IOCs, the credit quality of the 
outstanding receivables is generally 
considered to be good. 
Total current liabilities at 31 December 2016 
were US$ 93.7 million (2015: US$ 110.0 
million), the principal movement being the 
decrease in the current portion of obligations 
under finance leases to US$ 40.1 million 
(2015: US$ 55.0 million) arising mainly as a 
result of the Group exercising a purchase 
option to acquire a leased Small Class vessel 
that was completed in Q1 2016. There was  
a decrease in trade and other payables  
to US$ 28.8 million (2015: US$ 33.9 million) 
mainly arising from a lower level of creditors 
relating to construction of new build vessels. 
The combined effect of the above items was 
a decrease in the Group’s working capital 
and cash balance to a negative US$ 8.2 
million at 31 December 2016 (2015: positive 
US$ 10.7 million). The Group’s negative 
working capital position is primarily as a 
result of the exercise date of a purchase 
option, held by the Group on a leased vessel, 
falling within 12 months such that the lease 
liability is classified as current at year end. 
Cash and cash equivalents at year end was 
US$ 61.6 million (2015: US$ 60.8 million).
Total non-current assets at 31 December 
2016 were US$ 857.2 million (2015: US$  
803.4 million). This increase is primarily 
attributable to the US$ 56.1 million increase 
in the net book value of property, plant and  30 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Performance
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
equipment, mainly from the ongoing new 
build programme to expand the fleet. The 
increase in the net book value of property, 
plant and equipment was partially offset by 
the impairment charges as discussed below. 
Total non-current liabilities at 31 December 
2016 were US$ 404.8 million (2015: US$ 390.2 
million). This increase reflects the drawdown 
on the Group’s committed capex facility 
during the year resulting in an increase in 
the non-current portion of borrowings to 
US$ 401.6 million (2015: US$ 347.3 million).
Equity
Shareholders’ equity increased from US$ 
423.3 million at 31 December 2015 to US$ 
443.7 million at 31 December 2016 and the 
increase comprised the profit earned during 
the year after recording the dividend paid of 
US$ 8.0 million.
Property, plant and equipment
During the year the Group undertook 
impairment assessments of its vessels  
and there was no impairment identified  
on the SESVs owned by the Group. 
At the 2016 half year reporting an 
impairment loss of US$ 14.2 million was 
identified on the Group’s non-core assets. 
The assets comprise two anchor tug supply 
vessels and an accommodation barge. The 
assets have been affected by the influence 
of the continued low oil price on the charter 
rates and utilisation levels of those type of 
vessels. The Group is currently in discussions 
with a third party for the disposal of the 
non-core assets and accordingly the year 
end recoverable amount of US$ 1.1 million 
has taken into consideration the likely 
realisable value, increasing the full year 
impairment charge to US$ 14.7 million. 
An impairment of US$ 6.6 million was 
identified at year end on a leased Small  
Class Vessel accounted for as a finance 
lease. As the release of the lease liability  
is recorded in the financial statements at  
a faster rate than the rate at which the 
asset is depreciated, this has resulted in  
the asset having a higher carrying amount 
compared to the balance of the lease liability. 
Given that the Group is unlikely to exercise 
the purchase option on the lease in the  
current market environment, this difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset 
and the balance of the lease liability as at 
31 December 2016, has given rise to an 
impairment loss in the financial statements. 
The total impairment loss in the year of US$ 
21.3 million has been charged to cost of sales 
in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Adjusting items 
The Group presents adjusted results, in 
addition to the statutory results, as the 
Directors consider that they provide a useful 
indication of underlying performance. The 
items that are excluded from the adjusted 
results are non-operational items. In 2016 
these comprised non-cash impairment 
charges on the non-core assets and a 
leased vessel, amounting to US$ 21.3 million. 
In 2015 the adjusting items comprised the 
expensing of unamortised loan arrangement 
fees of US$ 9.9 million that were written  
off at the time of the Group refinancing.  
A reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory results is provided in note 6. 
In the Group’s 2016 interim results we 
provided guidance for the full year of 
EBITDA in the range of US$ 100 - 110 million 
and earnings per share of 14.5 - 15.5 cents. 
Consistent with how management considers 
EBITDA and EPS in assessing underlying 
Group performance, this guidance is based 
on adjusted results. The Group’s results  
on an adjusted basis were in line with the 
guidance provided. 
Outlook
The Group has a stable balance sheet, with 
good liquidity and robust operating cash 
flows. Cash conservation and deleveraging 
will be our key priorities and we would 
expect the Group’s net debt level to reduce 
to approximately US$ 335.0 million at the 
end of 2017. We will also maintain our focus 
on managing our costs appropriately and  
on maintaining a suitable financial structure 
to position ourselves well for the recovery  
in the markets. 
John Brown
Chief Financial Officer
27 March 2017 PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
31 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016 32 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Performance
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Ethical practice
Our core values of Responsibility, Excellence 
and Relationships define who we are, what 
we believe in and strive for and how we act 
and behave. Further information on our  
core values can be found on our website.
GMS operates responsibly within a 
framework of formal legal and regulatory 
disclosure requirements. Our corporate 
governance structure is designed to ensure 
we are well-positioned to conduct our 
business appropriately as we seek to deliver 
the best value for our shareholders. We are 
committed to the clear and comprehensive 
communication of our financial and non-
financial performance to our stakeholders  
via regulatory reporting and through  
our website.
The GMS Code of Conduct sets out the basic 
rules of the Group and its purpose is to 
ensure we work safely, ethically, efficiently 
and within the laws of the countries in which 
we operate. All our staff receive Code of 
Conduct training as part of their induction. 
Our reputation and our success is dependent 
on our staff taking responsibility for putting 
the Code of Conduct into practice and 
maintaining a high ethical standard in our 
work and in our dealings with our clients,  
host and foreign governments, joint venture 
partners and associates, contractors, 
employees, consultants, agents and 
everyone with whom we have business 
dealings throughout the world. GMS 
maintains an awareness of human rights 
issues and observance of pertinent law and 
this is reflected in our suite of Group policies 
including our Anti-Slavery Statement, 
Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy and 
Whistleblowing Policy. Our Anti-Slavery 
Statement may be viewed on our website.
Clients
We value the relationships we have with  
our clients, which are built on trust and a 
proven track record of delivering successful 
operations. Many of these relationships are 
with long-term clients, in the case of ADNOC 
subsidiaries spanning more than 40 years. 
We continually seek to improve our 
operational procedures across our entire 
fleet and through close collaboration with 
our clients we are able to offer considerable 
flexibility whereby we can tailor our vessels 
to suit their evolving needs. 
Shareholders
We communicate with our shareholders in  
a variety of ways such as through meetings, 
presentations and roadshow events (mainly 
results-oriented) and through participation in 
investor conferences in Europe and the 
Middle East. Our Company news is also 
published on our website and promulgated 
through relevant press and selected social 
media. Further information on our 
shareholder engagement can be found  
on page 42. 
Employees and subcontractors
We are committed to providing our 
employees and on-site subcontractors with  
a safe working environment. We ensure our 
subcontracted personnel working at our 
premises or in our vessels offshore are 
treated with the same respect afforded to 
our own staff and that they comply with the 
Group’s standards and working practices. 
We encourage an honest and open dialogue 
with our workforce and host a variety  
of formal and informal communications 
initiatives. In addition, our offshore 
performance coaches’ act as a sounding 
board for issues close to the crews’ hearts, 
with feedback passed to the GMS senior 
management team for appropriate action. 
We are committed to ensuring the personal 
and professional development of our staff,  
so they can reach their full potential within 
GMS. More information on how we develop 
our people can be found in our Business 
Model on pages 12 to 14.
 
Community 
GMS understands how important it is to 
contribute to the local communities where  
we work. We encourage a healthy living 
lifestyle, both within the Group and the  
wider community, through our support of 
various sports activities and charity events. 
During the period we were again pleased  
to work with the Emirates Red Crescent  
as a preferred charity of choice. 
Our workforce
We employ personnel from around  
50 countries and are very proud of our  
diversity, which ensures we look at  
ourselves, and the way we work, from  
many different viewpoints. 
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
26
3
2
1
2
Land-based management*
Total of 34** (32 male, 2 female)
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
9
72
6
3 4
Land-based staff*
Total of 94 (65 male, 29 female)
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
208
113
9
6
7
Offshore employees*
Total of 343 (all male)
* For cultural and legal reasons the extent to which we can increase the number of female personnel is often limited. For example, we cannot employ women offshore in the Middle East.
**  Of the 34 land-based management, 7 were members of the senior management team (all male). 
The Board of Directors comprised 7 members (all male); further information on the diversity of the Board can be found in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 60.
The charts below provide details on the diversity of our personnel as at 31 December 2016 
We are committed to operating safely and to upholding high  
ethical standards across all aspects of our business. 33 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Environmental responsibility 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement
This section has been prepared in 
accordance with our regulatory obligation 
to report greenhouse gas emissions 
pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies  
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013.
The GHG emissions estimates summarised 
in this report have been developed using 
methods documented in the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), the Climate 
Registry 2014, the IEA CO
2
 Emissions from 
Fuel combustion 2016 and emission factors 
from the UK Government Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2016, 
including the June 2014 Financial Reporting 
Council guidance on strategic reports, the 
June 2013 Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs guidance on how  
to report on environmental matters. These 
documents include the latest accepted 
methodologies for estimating emissions; 
these methodologies result in data that  
are consistent with accepted international  
GHG reporting protocols.
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required. These sources fall within 
our consolidated financial statements. We 
do not have responsibility for any emission 
sources in entities that are not included  
in our consolidated financial statements.
The intensity ratio of tonnes CO
2
e per  
US$ 1,000 of Group revenue earned during  
the reporting period has been chosen 
because, as a service company, the  
amount of revenue earned best reflects 
our operational output and therefore  
the contribution to our GHG emissions.
The table below shows our GHG emissions 
for the year.
The consumption of fuel during the 
operation of our vessels is the largest 
contributor to our GHG emissions. Although 
our vessels are usually leased to our clients 
on a long-term basis, who both pay for  
fuel and determine where each vessel  
sails, we have chosen to account for their  
GHG emissions within our footprint, in 
accordance with the ‘operational control’ 
approach to developing our GHG footprint. 
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016
Tonnes of CO
2
e
2016 2015
Emissions from:
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 33,298* 62,727
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 1,043 1,447
Total (in tonnes CO
2
e) 34,341 64,174
US$’000 US$’000
Total Revenue in the reporting period 179,410 219,713
Company’s chosen intensity measurement:
Emissions reported above normalised to the ratio of tonnes of CO
2
e per US$ 1,000 of Group revenue 0.2 0.3
* The reduction in emissions from fuel from the previous year is due to a decrease in overall vessel usage.
Naming ceremony for GMS Sharqi. 34 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Chairman’s Introduction 36
Board of Directors 38
Corporate Governance 40
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 43
Report of the Remuneration Committee 47
Report of the Nomination Committee 60
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65
GOVERNANCE 35 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 36 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce our 2016 Corporate Governance  
Report. This Corporate Governance Report explains key features  
of the Company’s governance structure, to provide a greater 
understanding of how the main principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) have been applied and to highlight 
areas of focus during the year. Throughout 2016, the Board 
considers that the Company has complied in all respects with  
all the relevant recommendations of the Code. 
The Board is committed to promoting high standards of corporate 
governance and understands that an effective and challenging 
Board is essential to enable the Company to deliver its strategy and 
shareholders’ long-term interests, whilst also generating investor 
confidence that the business is conducting itself in a responsible 
manner. The Company continues to maintain a robust governance 
structure through its corporate governance policies. In Board 
positions, whether executive or non-executive, objectivity and 
integrity, as well as ability and diversity, assist the Board in its  
key functions, and are prerequisites for appointment. These 
prerequisites further apply to senior management appointments 
below Board level, as well as the Company’s succession planning.
As discussed in the report of the Nomination Committee, the Board 
determined it would be appropriate to reduce the size of the Board, 
whilst still retaining an appropriate balance of independent and 
non-independent Directors. Accordingly independent non-executive 
Director Mike Straughen and non-executive Director H. Richard 
Dallas stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2017. 
On behalf of the Company I would like to thank Mike Straughen and 
H. Richard Dallas, who both joined the Board at the time of our IPO  
in 2014, for their valuable contribution to the Group. Their wealth of 
experience and sound stewardship has been much appreciated 
throughout their tenure with us.
As of 1 January 2017 the Board comprises an independent Chairman, 
an executive Director, two independent non-executive Directors  
and a non-executive Director who is considered by the Board to  
not be independent because of his relationship with Gulf Capital,  
a substantial shareholder in the Company. The Company has three 
Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Nomination Committee, all of which are compliant 
with the Code. The reports from the Chairman of each of these 
committees can be found in the pages that follow. 
The focus for 2017 is on maintaining the organic development of  
the Company’s governance framework whilst providing independent 
oversight and building long-term value for our shareholders.
Simon Heale 
Chairman
27 March 2017
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 37 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2016 is shown below. 
Further 
information Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Board (Main Meetings) Page 41
Audit and Risk Committee Page 43
Remuneration Committee Page 47
Nomination Committee Page 60
Annual General Meeting Page 116
For details of the responsibilities of the Board Committees, their terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website.
The attendance of the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees during 2016 is shown below.
 Attended
 Attended all or part of meeting as an invitee
 Apologies
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination
Simon Heale
            
Duncan Anderson
        
Simon Batey
             
H. Richard Dallas
        
Dr Karim El Solh*
      
Mike Straughen
             
W. Richard Anderson
      
**
       
Christopher Foll, a Chartered Accountant and Chief Financial Officer of Gulf Capital, has been appointed as an alternate Director for Dr. Karim El Solh; further details can be found 
in the Directors’ Report on page 63.
* Dr. Karim El Solh was unable to attend the June Board meeting. However he was represented by the alternate Director Christopher Foll who attended the meeting.
**  W. Richard Anderson attended part of the December Board meeting but due to a technology failure was unable to attend the whole meeting. The Company Secretary  
briefed W. Richard Anderson fully on the discussions held at the meeting and no change was proposed in the decisions that had been made by the Board during the portion  
of the meeting that W. Richard Anderson was absent. 
Governance calendar for 2016
Meeting attendance by Directors in 2016 38 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
 
Simon Heale Duncan Anderson Simon Batey 
Independent  
Non-executive Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Appointment date February 2014 January 2014  
(with the Group  
since October 2007)
February 2014
Experience A non-executive director at 
Coats plc from 2010 to 2014. 
Served on the boards of PZ 
Cussons from 2007 to 2013 and 
Morgan Advanced Materials 
from 2005 to 2014. Non-
executive director and chairman 
at Panmure Gordon & Co plc 
from 2007 to 2011. Has 
extensive experience in senior 
executive roles, including as 
chief executive at the London 
Metal Exchange from 2001 to 
2006, chief operating officer and 
chief financial officer at Jardine 
Fleming Ltd from 1997 to 2001 
and deputy managing director 
at Cathay Pacific Airways from 
1994 to 1997. 
A Chartered Accountant  
with a degree in Philosophy,  
Politics and Economics from  
Oxford University. 
Brings a wealth of experience, 
spanning more than 35 years, to 
the executive team gained from 
prior role as chief operating 
officer at the UAE-based 
Lamnalco Group, which included 
the management of a fleet of 90 
vessels, as well as increasing the 
client base in West Africa and 
the Middle East. Also operated 
the largest offshore service 
vessel fleet in the region as chief 
operating officer at Gulf 
Offshore North Sea. Responsible 
for leading the management of 
the GMS Group and the 
implementation of its strategy. 
A UK Chartered Engineer, with 
a post-graduate BSc (Hons) 
degree in Marine Machinery 
Monitoring Control. 
An independent non-executive 
director and chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Telecity 
Group from 2007 to 2016.  
A non-executive director at 
Arriva plc from 2003 to 2010, 
THUS Group plc in 2006 and 
BlackRock New Energy 
Investment Trust plc from 2010 
to 2014. A member of the Postal 
Services Commission, responsible 
for the regulation of the UK 
postal services sector, from  
2010 to 2011. As a Chartered 
Accountant, spent 12 years  
in professional practice with 
Armitage & Norton (now part of 
KPMG), latterly as a partner. Has 
more than 20 years’ experience 
in a number of senior finance 
roles in industry. Group finance 
director of United Utilities plc 
between 2000 and 2006. Chief 
financial officer at Thames Water 
Utilities Ltd from 2006 to 2007. 
Between 1987 and 2000, worked 
at AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, 
initially as deputy group finance 
director and then, from 1992,  
as group finance director.
A Chartered Accountant with 
an MA in Geography from 
Oxford University. 
External appointments Non-executive chairman at Kaz 
Minerals plc, previously known 
as Kazakhmys plc, since 2013 
and a non-executive director 
since 2007. Non-executive 
chairman of Marex Spectron 
since 2016 and a non-executive 
director since 2007.
Member of ABS Worldwide 
Technical Committee.
Capital programme  
consultancy work.
Committees Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 39 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
 
Simon Heale Duncan Anderson Simon Batey 
Independent  
Non-executive Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Appointment date February 2014 January 2014  
(with the Group  
since October 2007)
February 2014
Experience A non-executive director at 
Coats plc from 2010 to 2014. 
Served on the boards of PZ 
Cussons from 2007 to 2013 and 
Morgan Advanced Materials 
from 2005 to 2014. Non-
executive director and chairman 
at Panmure Gordon & Co plc 
from 2007 to 2011. Has 
extensive experience in senior 
executive roles, including as 
chief executive at the London 
Metal Exchange from 2001 to 
2006, chief operating officer and 
chief financial officer at Jardine 
Fleming Ltd from 1997 to 2001 
and deputy managing director 
at Cathay Pacific Airways from 
1994 to 1997. 
A Chartered Accountant  
with a degree in Philosophy,  
Politics and Economics from  
Oxford University. 
Brings a wealth of experience, 
spanning more than 35 years, to 
the executive team gained from 
prior role as chief operating 
officer at the UAE-based 
Lamnalco Group, which included 
the management of a fleet of 90 
vessels, as well as increasing the 
client base in West Africa and 
the Middle East. Also operated 
the largest offshore service 
vessel fleet in the region as chief 
operating officer at Gulf 
Offshore North Sea. Responsible 
for leading the management of 
the GMS Group and the 
implementation of its strategy. 
A UK Chartered Engineer, with 
a post-graduate BSc (Hons) 
degree in Marine Machinery 
Monitoring Control. 
An independent non-executive 
director and chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Telecity 
Group from 2007 to 2016.  
A non-executive director at 
Arriva plc from 2003 to 2010, 
THUS Group plc in 2006 and 
BlackRock New Energy 
Investment Trust plc from 2010 
to 2014. A member of the Postal 
Services Commission, responsible 
for the regulation of the UK 
postal services sector, from  
2010 to 2011. As a Chartered 
Accountant, spent 12 years  
in professional practice with 
Armitage & Norton (now part of 
KPMG), latterly as a partner. Has 
more than 20 years’ experience 
in a number of senior finance 
roles in industry. Group finance 
director of United Utilities plc 
between 2000 and 2006. Chief 
financial officer at Thames Water 
Utilities Ltd from 2006 to 2007. 
Between 1987 and 2000, worked 
at AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, 
initially as deputy group finance 
director and then, from 1992,  
as group finance director.
A Chartered Accountant with 
an MA in Geography from 
Oxford University. 
External appointments Non-executive chairman at Kaz 
Minerals plc, previously known 
as Kazakhmys plc, since 2013 
and a non-executive director 
since 2007. Non-executive 
chairman of Marex Spectron 
since 2016 and a non-executive 
director since 2007.
Member of ABS Worldwide 
Technical Committee.
Capital programme  
consultancy work.
Committees Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
W. Richard Anderson Mike Straughen* H. Richard Dallas* Dr Karim El Solh 
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
February 2014 February 2014 February 2014 February 2014
Has 38 years’ experience in the 
oil and gas industry and related 
finance and management. 
Previously, chief financial officer 
at Eurasia Drilling Company from 
2008 to 2015 and a member of 
the Board from 2011 to 2015. 
President and chief executive 
officer at Prime Natural 
Resources Inc from 1999 to 2007. 
Partner from 1989 to 1995 and 
then managing partner from 
1995 to 1998 at Hein & 
Associates LLP. Served on the 
boards of Calibre Energy Inc 
from 2005 to 2007, Transocean 
Ltd from 2007 to 2011 and Boots 
& Coots Inc from 1999 to 2010.
A Certified Public Accountant, 
with a BSc in Business from 
University of Colorado, magna 
cum laude, and a Masters in 
Taxation from the University  
of Denver.
Board member of the John 
Wood Group PLC and chief 
executive officer of the 
Engineering Division from  
2007 to 2014. With AMEC 
for 25 years, latterly as group 
managing director responsible 
for UK activities across all 
sectors including global oil &  
gas. A member of PILOT, the UK 
Government Oil & Gas Advisory 
Board, from 2000 to 2007 and 
chairman of the Energy Industry 
Council from 2002 to 2007. 
Recently a member of the UK 
Government’s Offshore Wind 
Cost Reduction Task Force.  
A member of the Scottish 
Government’s Energy Advisory 
Board from January 2013 to 
September 2014.
A Chartered Engineer with  
a BSc (Hons) degree in  
Mechanical Engineering  
from Newcastle University.
Previously served as managing 
director of Oryx Capital 
International, an investment 
group composed of families from 
GCC that specialised in small  
to mid-cap investments in the 
United States, from 1998 to 
2007. A partner of Gibson, Dunn 
& Crutcher from 1985 to 1998 
and established and managed 
offices in London and Saudi 
Arabia. 
Holds an A.B. degree in 
Economics, with honours, from 
Stanford University and a J.D. 
degree from the University of 
Southern California.
Co-founder of Gulf Capital, one 
of the largest alternative asset 
management firms in the Middle 
East, since its formation in 2006. 
Under his leadership, Gulf Capital 
has been associated with some 
of the region’s most prominent 
transactions, with the firm 
managing in excess of US$ 4 billion 
in assets.
Chairman of Maritime Industrial 
Services from 2007 to 2011 and 
Chairman of Metito from 2006  
to 2014. Chief executive officer  
of the Abu Dhabi-based 
Investment Bank, The National 
Investor, from 2001 to 2005. 
Holds a B.S. degree in Civil 
Engineering from Cornell 
University, an MBA from 
Georgetown University and  
a Doctorate in Economics from 
the Institute D’Etudes Politiques 
de Paris (Science Po).
Chairman of the board at 
Vanguard Natural Resources 
LLC since 2008. Non-executive 
director at Soma Oil & Gas 
Holdings since 2013.
A non-executive director  
of three privately owned  
oilfield services businesses.  
A member of the Energy 
Institute since 2001.
Managing director at Gulf Capital 
since 2007. 
Chief executive officer 
of Gulf Capital since 2006.
Co-managing partner of 
Gulf Related since 2010.
Chairman of Reach Group 
since 2014. 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk, 
and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Risk, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
  * Resigned from the GMS Board with effect from 1 January 2017.  40 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report
Compliance with 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”)
The Company has complied with all the relevant provisions set out  
in the Code during the year. A copy of the Code is available from  
the Financial Reporting Council’s website.
Governance overview
Membership of the Board 
The composition of the Board complies with the provision of the  
Code which provides that independent non-executive Directors 
should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman. 
 
Chairman:
Simon Heale
Executive Director:
Duncan Anderson
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director: Simon Batey
Non-executive Directors:
Karim El Solh, H. Richard Dallas*
Independent Non-executive Directors:
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen*
 
*  Mike Straughen and H. Richard Dallas stepped down from the Board with effect from 
1 January 2017. The Report of the Nomination Committee on page 60 contains further 
information on this matter.
The composition, qualifications, experience and balance of skills on 
the Board are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that there 
is the right mix on the Board and its Committees and that they are 
working effectively. The current members of the Board have a wide 
range of appropriate skills and experience and their biographies can 
be found on pages 38 to 39. 
Non-executive Director independence
The Board considers and reviews the independence of each 
non-executive Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors’ 
performance evaluation. In carrying out the review, consideration is 
given to factors such as their character, judgment, commitment and 
performance on the Board and relevant Committees and their ability 
to provide objective challenge to Management. Following the annual 
review for 2016, the Board concluded that each of the independent 
non-executive Directors continue to demonstrate those behaviours 
and continued to be considered by the Board as independent.
Division of responsibilities
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, a clear 
written division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer has been agreed by the Board. The 
Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of  
the Board. He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas  
are appropriate and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors 
actively contribute to the determination of the Group’s strategy.  
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Group and implementing the Group’s strategy, 
developing proposals for Board approval and ensuring that a  
regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained. The separation  
of authority enhances independent oversight of Executive 
Management by the Board and helps to ensure that no one 
individual on the Board has unfettered authority.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer 
• Providing strategic insight from his wide-ranging business 
experience and contacts built up over many years.
• Ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in  
the determination and development of the Group’s strategy.
• Meeting major shareholders on governance matters and is  
an alternate point of contact instead of the Chief Executive 
Officer for shareholders on other matters as well.
• Providing a sounding Board for the Chief Executive Officer on key 
business decisions, challenging proposals where appropriate.
• Agreeing with executive Director’s subjects for particular 
consideration by the Board during the year at Board  
meetings, ensuring that adequate time is available to  
discuss all agenda items.
• Promoting effective relations between the non-executive 
Directors and the Executive Management.
• Bringing matters of particular significance or risk to the 
Chairman, for discussion and consideration if appropriate.
• Representing the Group to its shareholders, customers, 
suppliers and the general industry.
• Leading the business and the rest of the Management team 
and ensuring effective implementation of the Board’s decisions.
• Driving the successful and efficient achievement of the 
Company’s KPIs and objectives.
• Leading the development of the Group’s strategy with input 
from the rest of the Board and our advisers.
• Working with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for particular 
consideration by the Board during the year.
Senior Independent Director Company Secretary 
• Serving as an intermediary for the other Directors with the 
Chairman when necessary.
• Making himself available to shareholders if they have concerns 
that cannot be addressed through normal channels.
• Acting as an internal sounding Board for the Chairman.
• Ensuring a balanced understanding of major shareholders’ 
issues and concerns.
• Meeting with the other non-executive Directors without the 
Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the 
Chairman’s performance.
• Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, reporting 
directly to their Chairman.
• Assisting the Chairman to ensure that Board papers are clear, 
accurate, timely, succinct and of sufficient quality to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties effectively.
• Providing advice to the Board and each of its Committees through 
the Chairman concerning Board and governance matters.
Division of Board responsibilities
Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation 41 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
How the Board operates
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership on 
behalf of the Company and exercising its business judgment within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls. It also agrees the 
strategic direction and governance structure that will help achieve 
the long-term success of the Company and maximise shareholder 
value. The Board takes the lead in areas such as strategy, financial 
policy, annual budgeting, significant potential acquisitions, risk 
management and the overall system of internal control. The Board’s 
full responsibilities are set out in the matters reserved for the Board. 
The ultimate responsibility for the Company rests with the Board 
and its legal powers and responsibilities are stated in the Articles of 
Association, which are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office in the UK. 
The Board delegates authority to its Committees to carry out 
certain tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and give 
the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters. 
The composition and role of each Committee is summarised on 
pages 43 to 61 and their full terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
The Chairman, along with the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Company Secretary, has established Board processes designed to 
maximise its performance. Key aspects of these are shown below:
• the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary 
meet towards the beginning of each year to agree an overall 
calendar of subjects to be discussed by the Board during  
the year;
• Board meetings are timetabled to ensure adequate time for  
open discussion of each agenda item allowing for questions, 
scrutiny, constructive challenge and full debates on key matters 
for decisions to be taken by consensus (although any dissenting 
views would be minuted accordingly);
• the development of Group strategy is led by the Chief Executive 
Officer, with input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing 
from the non-executive Directors and subsequently reviewed 
throughout the year;
• good working relationships exist between non-executive Directors 
and non-Board members of the senior management team;
• members of the senior management team draw on the collective 
experience of the Board, including its non-executive Directors;
• comprehensive reporting packs, which are designed to be clear, 
accurate and analytical, are normally distributed in advance  
of Board meetings allowing sufficient time for their review, 
consideration and clarification or amplification of reports  
in advance of the meeting;
• once goals have been set and actions agreed, the Board receives 
regular reports on their implementation;
• comprehensive management accounts with commentary and 
analysis are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis;
• the Board reviews the Group’s risk register at each of its main 
meetings and challenges this where appropriate;
• the Board visits the Group’s major business locations both  
to review its operations, progress on vessels construction and  
to meet with local management; and
• all Directors have open access to the Group’s key advisers, 
including Management and the Company Secretary, and are also 
entitled to seek independent professional advice at the Group’s 
expense where appropriate.
Board calendar for 2016
At each main meeting
Review and discussion of:
• investor relations & feedback
• new build programme
• competitive landscape and market
• fleet performance and  
operational matters
• strategic opportunities
Review of reports on:
• finance and accounting matters
• health, safety and the environment
• personnel and support services 
• risk management
• trading and forecast update
• key risks facing the group 
Review of reports from Board 
Committees as relevant
At specific meetings
January March May June August October December
Cost 
management 
initiatives
Capital structure 
and shareholder 
returns 
Remuneration 
review
Review and approval 
of 2015 annual 
results 
Nomination 
Committee Report:
- Board Evaluation 
Process
Update on cost 
management 
initiatives
Equity Capital 
markets update 
from brokers
Amendments 
to bank 
facility 
agreement
Plans for 
compliance 
with Market 
Abuse 
Regulation
Review and 
approval of  
2016 Half  
Year Results
Banking 
covenants and 
forecasts 
Succession 
Planning
Annual 
discussion in 
absence of 
Chairman
Review of 
Group 
business 
strategy
Group risk 
review
Review and 
approval of 
2017 budget
Board 
composition
Approval of 
2017 Group 
KPIs  42 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Director appointment and tenure
All non-executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of 
appointment which are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. The letters of appointment set out the expected 
time commitment of non-executive Directors, who, on appointment, 
undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is 
expected of them. 
The non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three 
years, subject to earlier termination, including provision for early 
termination by either the Company or the non-executive Director  
on three months’ notice. In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, all Directors must retire by rotation and seek 
re-election by shareholders every three years; however, it is 
intended that the Directors will each retire and submit themselves 
for re-election by shareholders annually.
Director induction and training 
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at 
Board meetings and Nomination Committee meetings and briefings 
are arranged on issues relating to corporate governance and other 
areas of importance. Arrangements are in place for any newly 
appointed Directors to undertake an induction programme designed 
to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Company.  
The induction programme includes briefing sessions during regular 
Board meetings, visits to the Company’s fabrication, modification 
and maintenance yard, meetings with members of the wider 
management team and discussions on relevant business issues. 
Upon appointment Directors are advised of their legal and other 
duties and their obligations as Directors of a listed company and 
under the Companies Act 2006 and they receive training from the 
Company’s lawyers. 
During Q3 2016, the Company implemented new Group-wide policies 
to be compliant with the Market Abuse Regulation, effective from 
3 July 2016, and training sessions and discussions were held with  
the Board and members of Senior Management, as appropriate.
Director election 
Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee,  
the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, 
committed to their roles and have sufficient time available to 
perform their duties. In accordance with the provisions B.7.1 of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors wishing to  
continue serving, will be subject to annual re-election. Accordingly,  
all Directors elected in 2016, apart from Mike Straughen and H. 
Richard Dallas who stepped down from the Board effective from 
1 January 2017, will seek re-election at the Company’s 2017 Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) as set out in the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting (see page 116 for resolutions relating to  
re-election of Directors). 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which  
they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the 
Company, unless that conﬂict is first authorised by the Directors. 
This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director 
takes up a position with another company. The Company’s Articles 
of Association allow the other Directors to authorise such potential 
conflicts, and there is in place a procedure to deal with any actual  
or potential conﬂicts of interest. The Board deals with each actual  
or potential conﬂict of interest on its individual merit and takes into 
consideration all the circumstances. 
All potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an 
Interests Register, which is reviewed by the Board at each main 
Board meeting to ensure that the procedure is operating at 
maximum effectiveness. 
Board evaluation and effectiveness 
Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving 
their aims is the effectiveness with which they operate. Accordingly, 
we take our evaluation of this seriously. A rigorous internal 
evaluation was conducted by the Chairman in 2016 by way of an 
anonymous questionnaire which was completed by the Directors. 
The questionnaire was structured to provide Directors with an 
opportunity to express their views on a range of matters including:
• strategy and implementation;
• succession planning and talent development; 
• Board dynamics and operation;
• Chairman effectiveness;
• performance of the Board and each of its Committees; and
• Director self-assessment and training needs.
Following the internal evaluation process conducted in 2016, the 
Board and the Board Committees are satisfied that they are 
operating effectively and that each Director has performed well and 
demonstrated commitment in respect of their individual roles on the 
Board. In addition, as part of the evaluation process, the Chairman 
and non-executive Directors met twice during the year in the 
absence of the executive Director. We are intending to undertake  
an externally facilitated Board evaluation process in respect of the 
calendar year 2017. 
Shareholder engagement
Responsibility for shareholder relations rest with the Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. They ensure that there 
is effective communication with shareholders on matters such as 
governance and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring that  
the Board understands the views of major shareholders.
As part of our investor relations programme a combination of 
presentations, Group calls and one-to-one meetings are arranged 
to discuss the Company’s interim and full year results with stock 
market participants. In the intervening periods meetings are held 
with existing and prospective shareholders to update them on  
our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company. 
Periodically we arrange visits to the business to give analysts, 
brokers and major shareholders a better understanding of how we 
manage our business and to ensure we understand the views of our 
shareholders. These visits and meetings are principally undertaken 
by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of its shareholders 
from its brokers at its Board meetings. In addition, the Senior 
Independent Director is available to meet shareholders if they  
wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements as  
described above.
The AGM is the Company’s principal forum for communication with 
private shareholders. In addition to the formal business, there will be 
a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of 
the Group and its future development. The Chairman of the Board 
and the Chairman of each Board Committee, together with members 
of senior management, will be available to answer shareholders’ 
questions at the AGM.
The presentations to analysts are published on the Company’s 
website, along with a copy of all announcements made by way  
of a Regulatory Information Service. 43 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Audit and Risk Committee report for 
2016. During the year, our activities continued to focus on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal controls, 
the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting and the effectiveness 
of the internal and external audit processes. These areas are critical 
to the way the Group’s business is operated and are vital in enabling 
the Group to achieve its strategic objectives in a controlled and 
sustainable manner. We tested and challenged these areas in 
conjunction with Management and the internal and external  
auditors as appropriate.
Throughout 2016, membership of the Committee was comprised 
solely of three independent non-executive Directors, as shown in  
the chart above. Following the stepping down of Mike Straughen 
from the Committee, effective from 1 January 2017, the membership 
of the Committee was reduced to two independent non-executive 
Directors. The composition of the Committee will remain in 
compliance with the Code which recommends that, as the Group is 
classified as a “smaller company”, the Committee needs to only have 
two members, both of whom should be independent non-executive 
Directors, as is the case for GMS. The Board is satisfied that both 
members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial 
experience given that both Simon Batey and W. Richard Anderson 
are qualified accountants, and have comprehensive industry 
knowledge and experience.
The Audit and Risk Committee’s responsibilities include:
Financial statements • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance;
• reviewing any significant financial reporting judgments contained in them; 
• reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial  
reports; and 
• providing advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable.
External audit • advising the Board on the policy with regards to audit tendering, taking into account 
relevant regulatory requirements and making recommendations to the Board as to the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor;
• making recommendations to the Board as to the remuneration of the external auditor;
• reviewing the terms of engagement, independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the 
external auditors; and
• assessing the external audit process and the appropriateness of the external auditors  
to supply non-audit services, in accordance with Group policy.
Internal audit • reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk management 
systems; and
• monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function.
Whistleblowing and related policies • reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements  
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties 
in respect of financial and other matters, for appropriate follow-up action.
Chairman and Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director: Simon Batey
Independent Non-executive Directors:
W. Richard Anderson
Mike Straughen*
Committee members
*   Mike Straughen stepped down from the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee  
with effect from 1 January 2017. The Report of the Nomination Committee contains 
further information on this matter. 44 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities 
through a series of scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda 
of which is linked to events in the financial calendar of the Company. 
We met five times during the financial year and attendance at those 
meetings is set out on page 37. The Committee receives reports 
from external advisers and from the senior management team,  
as required, to enable it to discharge its duties. The Chief Financial 
Officer and senior members of the finance team attend each of 
these meetings at our request. The internal auditor attends and 
presents at the majority of meetings. In addition, the external 
auditor attended three of these meetings. 
The external auditor receives copies of all relevant Committee 
papers (including papers that were considered at the meeting when 
they were not in attendance) and minutes of all Committee meetings.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and financial statements and the half-yearly reports remains 
with the Board. The Committee gives due consideration to laws and 
regulations, the provisions of the Code and the requirements of  
the Listing Rules, and makes its recommendations on these reports 
to the Board. In 2016, this included an assessment of whether the 
Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable. 
Significant issues 
The Audit and Risk Committee pays specific attention to matters it considers important based on their potential impact on the Group’s 
results, or based on the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application. The Committee considered the following 
matters as significant issues in 2016:
Audit and Risk Committee calendar for 2016
At specific meetings
January March June August December
Review of progress in 
preparation of 2015 
Annual Report
Plans for assessing the 
effectiveness of the 
external auditors 
Reviews of:
• 2015 Annual Results
• Report from the 
external auditors
• Performance and 
independence of 
external auditors 
Recommendations to 
the Board on:
• 2015 Annual Results 
• Reappointment of 
the external auditors
2016 Half Year Results 
process update
Review of internal  
audit plans 
Approval of 2016 Group 
audit fees
Reviews of:
• 2016 Half Year 
results
• Report from the 
external auditors 
Recommendation to  
the Board on 2016  
Half Year results 
Update on 2016 Annual 
Report process
Review of Group 
external audit plan 
At each main meeting
Reviews of financial reporting, 
including:
• Any proposed changes to accounting 
policies 
• Developments in reporting and 
accounting requirements affecting  
the Group
• Key assumptions, estimates  
and judgements proposed 
 by management
Review and discussion of:
• New and revised regulatory reporting 
requirements
• Risk management systems and 
internal controls, including a 
discussion of the risk  
management process
• Minutes of previous meetings
• Reports on implementation of  
actions from previous meetings 
• Whistle blowing and related polices
Consideration of internal audit:
• Internal audit reports and 
recommendations
Significant issue How addressed
Impairment of property, plant  
and equipment
The Committee evaluated Management’s approach in determining the recoverable value 
of the Group’s vessels.
The assumptions used in the computation of the value in use of the vessels were 
assessed. Consideration was given to both the feasibility of the long-term business plan 
and the appropriateness of the weighted average cost of capital which formed an initial 
basis for determining the discount rate.
There was an indication of an impairment on the non-core assets during the year and 
an impairment loss of US$ 14.7 million was recognised on the non-core assets.
An impairment of US$ 6.6 million was identified at year end on a leased Small Class 
Vessel accounted for as a finance lease. Given that the Group is unlikely to exercise  
the purchase option on the lease in the current market environment, this difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset and the balance of the lease liability as at 
31 December 2016, has given rise to an impairment loss in the financial statements.
IAS 36 requires that a review for 
impairment be carried out if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that  
the carrying amount of an asset may not 
be recoverable. 
The continuing low oil price environment 
may impact the value in use of the vessels.
Impairment assessments are judgmental 
and careful consideration of the 
assumptions used in the determination of 
the value in use of the assets is required. 45 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Internal controls and risk management 
The Group’s systems of internal control and in particular our risk 
management process have been designed to support our strategic 
and business objectives as well as our internal control over financial 
reporting. The Board has an established ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced  
by the Group that have been in place for the period under review 
and up to the date of the Annual Report. The process is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Review 
guidance on internal controls and requirements of the Code. 
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
The Group has a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, 
both at an operational and strategic level. Our risk identification  
and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive to 
the constantly changing environment. The internal control process 
starts with identifying risks, compliance matters and other issues 
through routine reviews carried out by process owners and 
facilitated by regular Group-wide risk assessments. For risks that 
are recorded in the Group risk register, the Group then assesses  
the implications and consequences and determines the likelihood  
of occurrence. Further details of the Group’s risk management 
process can be found on pages 18 to 21. 
Internal audit
At the majority of meetings the Committee receives a report  
on internal controls. These reports provide an update on progress 
against the internal audit plan, including the status of actions 
 and management responses, key improvement themes and 
recommended areas of business focus. The internal audit function  
is largely outsourced to KPMG.
In addition to the internal audit plan, the Group is regularly audited 
by certain clients and industry bodies, with any key findings reported  
to the Audit and Risk Committee who assess these findings and ensure 
that appropriate action is taken by Management as deemed necessary.
External audit
Appointment and independence
The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
external auditors’ independence and objectivity is not compromised. 
The Committee considers formally the reappointment of the 
external auditor each year, as well as assessing their independence 
on an ongoing basis. In accordance with UK regulations and to help 
ensure independence, our auditors adhere to a rotation policy based 
on Auditing Practices Board standards that require the Group audit 
partner to rotate every five years. The 2016 year-end is the third 
year the current lead audit partner has been involved in the audit  
of the Group.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as external auditor of the Company  
in 2014. The Committee is aware of the recent changes to the 
requirements for external auditor selection and rotation. Whilst  
we do not consider it necessary to have a policy for mandatory 
rotation of external audit firms, we plan to give consideration  
to placing future audits out to tender over the coming years. 
Assessment of external audit process 
The Committee has an established framework to assess the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. This includes but  
is not limited to:
• A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set  
by the auditors and the process they have adopted to identify 
financial statement risks. 
• A review of the Audit Quality Inspection (AQI) Report on our 
auditors published by the Financial Reporting Council with 
particular emphasis on those key messages applicable to  
the Company.
• A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor 
judgement and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached 
(summarised in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages  
68 to 72). 
• A formal questionnaire issued to all senior management who  
are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit 
process, independence and objectivity, quality of delivery, 
 quality of people and service, and value-added advice.
 
As part of the Committee’s assessment of the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor, the Committee held two 
private meetings with the external auditor without Management 
being present. In addition, I met privately with the external audit 
Engagement Partner on several occasions.
The Committee has determined that Deloitte LLP was effective in 
providing its services to the Group. As a result, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Company’s external auditor be proposed to shareholders at 
the 2017 AGM.
Provision of non-audit services 
The Committee believes that it may be appropriate for the Company 
to engage its external auditor to provide non-audit services in limited 
circumstances. Given the knowledge of a company’s market, systems 
and operations which an external auditing firm gains through the 
audit process, together with effective working relationships 
developed with senior management, the Committee believes that  
on occasion appointing the Company’s external auditor to provide 
non-audit services can represent an effective and cost-efficient 
process which is in the best interests of shareholders. However, to 
ensure the continued objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor are not compromised, the Committee has established a 
non-audit services policy. 
The Committee requires specific approval for the provision of  
any non-audit services above the value of US$ 50,000 and, in the 
unlikely event that the non-audit services have resulted in a 
cumulative total of 70% or more of the overall Group audit fee in any 
financial year, then any further non-audit services carried out by the 
external auditor would be regarded as exceptional and will require 
the Committee’s prior approval. The Committee receives quarterly 
reports of any non-audit services undertaken. The Committee must 
be satisfied that the external auditor’s objectivity and independence 
would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed 
to carry out those services.
The total non-audit services provided by the Group’s external 
auditor Deloitte LLP for the year ended 31 December 2016 were  
US$ 124,000 (2015: US$ 105,000) which comprised 34% (2015: 29%) 
of total audit and non-audit fees. The Committee is satisfied that the 
quantum and nature of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte 
LLP during the current year are such that the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor have not been compromised. 46 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Ethical conduct
Our Code of Conduct encourages all employees to report any 
potential improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.  
The Group operates a confidential whistleblowing hotline and  
all reports received are communicated to this Committee. Where 
appropriate, our internal audit team or other third party specialist 
may be asked to investigate issues and report to us on the  
outcome. Code of Conduct training is included as part of the 
Company induction process for all new employees who join  
the Group. 
The Group operates an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and is 
satisfied that appropriate policies and training are in place to  
deal with any instances of whistleblowing and to ensure that  
appropriate follow up action is taken on a timely basis. 
This is the first year the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (“the Act”) is in 
effect for the Group. The Committee was involved in reviewing the 
activities undertaken by Management to ensure compliance with the 
Act. The Group’s statement on Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking 
can be found on the GMS website.
Simon Batey 
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
27 March 2017 47 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”),  
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for  
the year ended 31 December 2016. Conditions in the energy  
industry remained challenging throughout the year and against  
the continued market backdrop of low oil prices, the Group has 
implemented a number of cost-saving initiatives, including salary 
reductions across the business. The Committee appreciates the 
commitment and dedication shown by all members of staff during 
this challenging period.
Our remuneration arrangements have been designed in accordance 
with the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code  
and current market and best practices for UK listed companies. They 
also take into account market practice and labour laws in the local  
UAE market. 
Our aim is to ensure that remuneration arrangements appropriately 
and responsibly incentivise Executive Directors and senior 
management to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives, in turn 
creating value for the Company’s shareholders. To this end, the 
overall remuneration structure for executives comprises:
• base salary, benefits and allowances – set at a level appropriate 
to the sector and geographic markets in which we operate;
• an annual bonus – based on measures of annual financial and 
strategic performance; and
• a share-based Long Term Incentive Plan – normally based on 
growth in a financial measure such as earnings per share and 
total shareholder return.
Further details of this structure are set out on the following pages.
During the year the Company fulfilled a number of key financial, 
operational and strategic targets including targets such as adjusted 
EBITDA margin, Total Recordable Injury Rate, delivery of new  
build SESVs on schedule and on budget, and progression of the  
cantilever system. 
Performance and remuneration for 2016
For 2016, the profit after tax performance being 25% of the total 
annual bonus opportunity, was below the threshold required for  
a payment under this part of the annual bonus scheme. However 
adjusted EBITDA margin, Total Recordable Injury Rate and progress 
against strategic, financial and operational objectives were achieved 
within or in excess of the target ranges, so that overall the CEO 
achieved the maximum pay out in these categories. As such the 
bonus payable to the CEO constituted 75% of salary which resulted 
in a US$ 323,000 bonus to be settled in cash – for more details,  
see page 56. 
Review of the remuneration policy
The existing Directors’ Remuneration Policy is not subject to renewal 
this year and the Remuneration Committee believes that the current 
approved policy, which received over 99% support from investors 
when it was voted on in 2015, continues to appropriately align 
shareholders’ interests and the Company’s strategy. Accordingly 
there are no proposed changes in our Remuneration Policy for 2017. 
However, we will continue to review our Remuneration Policy and 
targets for future variable pay awards so that we can remain 
confident that our policy reflects the Company’s strategic objectives. 
The Remuneration Policy has been included in full on pages 48 to 53, 
for ease of reference alongside the Annual Remuneration Report. 
Remuneration arrangements for 2017 and beyond
The Committee regularly reviews current market conditions within  
the industry and aligns remuneration levels as appropriate. In setting 
targets for the 2017 annual bonus, the Committee has been mindful  
of the continuing challenging market conditions being experienced  
in the industry.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM; at both previous AGM’s the 
Remuneration Report was supported by over 98% of investors.  
The Committee is dedicated to ensuring that our shareholders 
understand and support our policy and therefore we welcome 
questions and feedback regarding our remuneration structures. 
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
27 March 2017
Chairman:
W. Richard Anderson
Committee members
Independent Non-executive Director:
Mike Straughen*
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director: Simon Batey
*  Mike Straughen stepped down from the Board and the Remuneration Committee  
with effect from 1 January 2017. The Report of the Nomination Committee contains 
further information on this matter. 48 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the report, which is not subject to audit, sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in 
accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The policy 
has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the views of our major shareholders.  
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved at the Company’s Annual General Meeting held in 2015. No changes have been made  
to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2017, other than an update to the remuneration scenario charts to reflect the latest fixed 
remuneration arrangements. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been included below for ease of reference. 
Policy overview
The Committee assists the Board in its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the 
Company’s policy on executive remuneration.
The Company’s policy is to provide remuneration to executives to reflect their contribution to the business, the performance of the Group, 
the complexity and geography of the Group’s operations and the need to attract, retain, and incentivise executives. The Committee seeks  
to provide remuneration packages that are simple, transparent and aligned with UK best and local UAE market practice, whilst providing  
an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay that supports the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The following table sets out the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Element of pay
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Base salary • To attract, retain and 
motivate individuals of 
the necessary calibre 
to execute the Group’s 
strategy
• Normally reviewed annually 
by the Committee or, if 
appropriate, in the event of 
a change in an individual’s 
position or responsibilities
• The level of base salary 
reflects the experience and 
capabilities of the individual 
as well as the scope and 
scale of the role
• Any increases to base  
pay will take into account 
individual performance  
as well as the pay and 
conditions in the workforce
• There is no prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase
• When determining the 
level of any change  
in compensation, the 
Committee takes  
into account:
 – Remuneration levels 
in comparable 
organisations in the 
UAE and the GCC
 – Remuneration levels 
in the international 
market
 – Increases for the 
workforce generally
 – Changes to an 
individual’s role, 
including any 
additional 
responsibilities
N/A
Annual bonus 
plan
• To encourage and 
reward delivery of  
the Group’s annual 
financial and 
operational objectives
• Performance measures  
and targets are reviewed 
annually by the Committee 
and are linked to the 
Group’s key strategic  
and financial objectives
• The bonus will normally be 
paid wholly in cash; however 
the Committee has the 
discretion to defer a 
proportion of the bonus  
in GMS shares or cash
• Clawback (or malus in the 
event of any deferral) 
provisions apply in the 
event of a material 
misstatement of the 
Group’s financial results  
or an error in the calculation 
of performance targets. 
Clawback and/or malus  
can be applied for three 
years from the end of the 
financial year to which  
a payment relates
• Normal maximum 
opportunity of 100% of 
salary (exceptional limit 
150% of salary)
• The majority of the 
annual bonus will be 
based on Group financial 
performance
• The Committee has 
discretion to vary bonus 
payments downwards  
or upwards if it considers 
the outcome would not 
otherwise be a fair and 
complete reflection  
of the performance 
achieved by the Group 
and/or the Executive 
Director. Performance 
below threshold results 
in zero payment. 
Payments increase from 
0% to 100% of the 
maximum opportunity 
for levels of performance 
between threshold and 
maximum performance 
targets 49 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Element of pay
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
• To incentivise  
and reward the 
achievement of key 
financial performance 
objectives and the 
creation of long-term 
shareholder value
• To encourage share 
ownership and provide 
further alignment with 
shareholders
• Annual awards of nil-cost 
options or conditional shares 
with the level of vesting 
subject to the achievement 
of stretching performance 
conditions measured over  
a three-year period
• Performance targets are 
reviewed annually by the 
Committee and are set at 
such a level to motivate 
management and 
incentivise out-performance
• Dividends that accrue 
during the vesting period 
may be paid in cash or 
shares at the time of 
vesting, to the extent  
that shares vest
• Clawback provisions apply 
in the event of a material 
misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results 
or an error in the calculation 
of performance targets. 
Clawback can be applied for 
three years from the end  
of the financial year in which 
an award vests
• Normal maximum 
opportunity of  
200% of base salary 
(exceptional limit  
of 300% of  
base salary)
• Performance is assessed 
against metrics which 
will normally include a 
financial measure, such 
as earnings per share 
(EPS), and/or a measure 
linked to the Company’s 
total shareholder return 
against an appropriate 
group of peers. 
Measures are captured 
independently
• 30% of an award will vest 
for achieving threshold 
performance, increasing 
pro-rata to full vesting 
for achievement of 
maximum performance 
targets
End of service 
gratuity
• To provide an end of 
service gratuity, as 
required under the 
UAE Labour Law
• End of service gratuity 
contributions are accrued 
by the Company
• The maximum pay out 
to an employee is 
limited by UAE Labour 
Law to two years’ base 
salary
N/A
Benefits • To provide competitive 
and cost-effective 
benefits to attract and 
retain high-calibre 
individuals
• Private medical insurance 
for the executive and close 
family, death in service 
insurance, disability 
insurance, accommodation 
and payment of children’s 
school fees
• Actual value of benefits 
provided
N/A
Allowances • Allowances set to 
cover essential living 
costs where this is in 
line with local market 
practice
• Any increases to allowances 
will take into account local 
market conditions as well  
as the allowances provided 
to the workforce
• Allowances relating to air 
travel and transport
N/A N/A
Share ownership 
guidelines 
• To encourage 
alignment with 
shareholders 
• Executive Directors are 
required to build and 
maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to at least  
100% of base salary 
through the retention  
of vested share awards  
or through open market 
purchases
• A new appointment will  
be expected to reach this 
guideline in three to five 
years post-appointment
• Executive Directors are 
required to retain 50% of 
the shares (net of tax) 
vesting under the incentive 
schemes until the guideline 
has been achieved
N/A N/A 50 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Notes to table
Annual bonus performance measures
The annual bonus reflects key financial performance indicators linked to the Group’s strategic goals. Financial targets are set at the start  
of the financial year with reference to internal budgets and taking account of market expectations. The balance is based on how well the 
individual performed against a range of stretching objectives relating to key strategic and operational objectives.
LTIP performance measures
The LTIP performance measures (which are currently EPS growth and total shareholder return (TSR) relative to companies in the FTSE 250 
Index excluding financial services companies) reward long-term financial growth and significant long-term returns to shareholders. Targets 
are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Group. Only modest 
rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging 
strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
Discretion
The Committee operates annual bonus and long term incentive arrangements for the Executive Director(s) in accordance with their 
respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion 
over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans. These include the following: 
• who participates;
• the timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
• the size of an award (up to plan limits) and/or a payment;
• the annual review of performance measures, targets and weightings for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year;
• discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or restructuring;
• determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes;
• adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Awards granted prior to approval of policy
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former Directors (such as the vesting or exercise of past share awards granted pre- or post-IPO but before the 
AGM at which this policy is approved by shareholders). 
How remuneration of Executive Directors differs from employees generally, and how their views are taken 
into account in setting remuneration policy 
When considering the structure and levels of Executive Director Remuneration, the Committee reviews base salary and annual bonus 
arrangements for the management team, to ensure that there is a coherent approach across the Group. The annual bonus plan operates  
on a similar basis across the senior management team. The key difference in the Executive Director Policy is that remuneration is more 
heavily weighted towards variable pay than that of other employees. This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for 
shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Director(s). 
The Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy, however 
the Human Resources Director is available to discuss issues relating to the wider employee population.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors. The Committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity  
to meet and communicate with investors, giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may have. In addition, 
the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any changes be planned to the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy or if the Committee wishes to make material changes to how Policy will be implemented. 
Following the Company’s AGM in 2017, details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be included in the next Annual Report on Remuneration published following the AGM.
The Company is required to prepare, and seek shareholder approval for an updated Directors’ Remuneration Policy at least once every 
three years. 51 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Directors’ recruitment and promotions 
The policy on the recruitment or promotion of an Executive Director takes into account the need to attract, retain and motivate the best 
person for each position, while at the same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests of shareholders and management,  
as follows:
Base salary The base salary for a new appointment will be set taking into account the skills and experience of the 
individual, internal relativities and the market rate for the role as identified by any relevant benchmarking  
of companies of a comparable size and complexity. 
If it is considered appropriate to set the salary for a new Executive Director at a level which is below market 
(for example, to allow them to gain experience in the role) their salary may be increased to achieve the 
desired market positioning by way of a series of phased above inflation increases. Any increases will be 
subject to the individual’s continued development in the role.
End of service gratuity,  
benefits and allowances
End of service gratuity, benefits and allowances will be set in line with the policy above, reflective of typical 
market practice and the Labour Law for the UAE. The Committee may also approve the payment of one-off 
relocation-related expenses and legal fees incurred by the individual.
In the event of an Executive Director being recruited to work outside the UAE, additional benefits, pension 
provision and/or allowances may be provided in line with local market practice.
Annual bonus and LTIP The Company’s incentive plans will be operated, as set out in the policy table above, albeit with any payment 
pro-rata for the period of employment and with the flexibility to use different performance measures and 
targets, depending on the timing and nature of the appointment.
Remuneration foregone The Committee may offer cash and/or share-based elements to compensate an individual for remuneration 
and benefits that would be forfeited on leaving a former employer, when it considers these to be in the best 
interests of the Group (and therefore shareholders). 
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished and would mirror (as far as possible)  
the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirement attached to that remuneration.
Where possible this will be facilitated through existing share plans as set out in the policy table above,  
but if not the Committee may use the provisions of 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules.
Internal appointments In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be 
allowed to pay out according to its original terms stipulated on grant or adjusted as considered desirable  
to reflect the new role. 52 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Directors’ service agreements and payments for loss of office 
The Committee seeks to ensure that contractual terms of the Executive Director’s service agreement reflect best practice. 
Notice period The CEO’s service agreement is terminable by either the Company or the Director on 12 months’ notice.  
In circumstances of termination on notice the Committee will determine an equitable compensation package, 
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. The Committee has discretion to require notice  
to be worked, to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on gardening leave. 
The Company may terminate the appointment summarily with immediate effect if the Director is guilty of 
gross misconduct in accordance with relevant provisions of the UAE labour law.
Payment in lieu of notice In case of payment in lieu, base salary, allowances, benefits and end of service gratuity will be paid for the 
period of notice served or paid in lieu. 
If the Committee believes it would be in shareholders’ interests, payments would be made either as one 
lump sum or in equal monthly instalments and in the case of payment in lieu will be subject to be offset 
against earnings elsewhere.
Annual bonus An annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the bonus plan year worked by the  
Director; there is no provision for an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice  
period not worked. 
LTIP Outstanding share awards under the LTIP are subject to the rules which contain discretionary provisions 
setting out the treatment of awards where a participant leaves for designated reasons (i.e. participants  
who leave early on account of injury, disability or ill health, death, a sale of their employer or business in 
which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of  
the Committee). 
In these circumstances a participant’s awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and instead 
will continue to vest on the normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Committee, subject to 
 the performance conditions attached to the relevant awards. The awards will, other than in exceptional 
circumstances, be scaled back pro-rata for the period of the incentive term worked by the Director.
Other payments In addition to the above payments, the Committee may make any other payments determined by a court  
of law in respect of the termination of a Director’s contract. 
Change of control In the event of a change of control all unvested awards under the LTIP would vest, to the extent that any 
performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been achieved. 
The date of the CEO’s Executive Service Agreement is 12 March 2014. The service contract is available for inspection during normal business 
hours at the Company’s registered office, and available for inspection at the AGM. 
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors in other companies and that these 
appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Group. It is policy that Board approval is required before 
any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. An Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such 
services. The current Executive Director does not hold any such external appointments.
Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy and terms of engagement
The following table sets out the components of the Non-executive Directors’ remuneration package.
Element of pay
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance  
criteria
Non-executive  
Directors’ fee
• Set to attract, retain and 
motivate talented individuals 
through the provision of 
market competitive fees
• Reviewed periodically by the 
Board or, if appropriate, in  
the event of a change in an 
individual’s position or 
responsibilities
• Fee levels set by reference 
 to market rates, taking into 
account the individual’s 
experience, responsibility 
and time commitments
• There is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase
• The Board takes into account 
external market practice, pay 
increases within the Group, 
wider economic factors and 
any changes in responsibilities 
when determining fee 
increases
N/A
Non-executive 
Directors’ benefits
• Travel to the Company’s 
registered office
• Travel to the Company’s 
registered office may in  
some jurisdictions be 
recognised as a  
taxable benefit
• Costs of travel, grossed-up 
where taxable
N/A 53 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Non-executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, which are terminable by three months’ 
notice on either side. However, it is the Company’s intention to comply with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
accordingly all Directors will stand for annual re-election by shareholders at future AGMs until the Board determines otherwise.  
The dates of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are:
Simon Heale Chairman 27 February 2014
H. Richard Dallas
1
Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Dr Karim El Solh Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Simon Batey Independent Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Mike Straughen
1
Independent Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
W. Richard Anderson Independent Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
1 Independent Non-executive Director Mike Straughen and Non-executive Director H. Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS Board with effect from 1 January 2017. 
The letters of appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office. For the 
appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM. Sections of this report that are subject to audit, on pages 56 to 58 have been indicated.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities include:
• setting the strategy, structure and levels of remuneration of our Executive Directors and senior management;
• ensuring compliance with internal policies whilst also adhering to legislative regulations; and
• aligning the financial interests of the Executive Directors and other management and employees with the achievement of the  
Group’s objectives. 
The Remuneration Committee will assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding all matters related to remuneration, including 
making recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on executive remuneration. In reviewing executive remuneration, the 
Committee may set the over-arching principles, parameters and governance framework of the Group’s Remuneration Policy and determine 
the individual remuneration and benefits package of the Executive Director(s) and the Company Secretary. In addition, the Committee 
monitors the structure and level of remuneration for the senior management team and is aware of pay and conditions in the workforce 
generally. The Committee also ensures full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
Members and activities of the Committee
The composition of the Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the Code which provides that all members of the Committee should 
be independent Non-executive Directors. 
The members of the Committee during 2016 were W. Richard Anderson (Chairman), Simon Batey and Mike Straughen. All members were 
Independent Non-executive Directors. Effective from 1 January 2017 the members of the Committee are W. Richard Anderson (Chairman) 
and Simon Batey. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend for  
at least part of each meeting to allow the Committee to benefit from their contextual advice. The Group Chairman also normally attends 
meetings by invitation. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. These individuals are not present when their own 
remuneration is discussed. 
The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each member is shown in the table below. The Committee also held informal 
discussions as required. 
Number of meetings attended out of a potential maximum
W. Richard Anderson 3 out of 3
Simon Batey 3 out of 3
Mike Straughen
2
3 out of 3
2 Independent Non-executive Director Mike Straughen and Non-executive Director H. Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS Board with effect from 1 January 2017. 
Performance evaluation of the Committee
In 2016, the performance evaluation of the Committee was conducted in conjunction with the Board evaluation process, a questionnaire  
was completed on an anonymous basis by each of the Committee members. The Committee has assessed the results of the evaluation 
process and noted that the Directors continue to be effective and that these Directors demonstrate commitment to their roles, including 
commitment of time for Committee meetings and any other duties.  54 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
External advice received
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary. During the year, the Committee received 
independent advice on remuneration matters from New Bridge Street, an AON plc company. New Bridge Street is a signatory of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by that Code. The fees paid to New Bridge Street  
in 2016 were US$ 20,457.
During the year, the Committee also received independent advice on remuneration matters from Mercer Limited (“Mercer”). Mercer is  
a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK. The fees paid to Mercer for advice in 2016 were US$ 17,515. Mercer also provided support to the Company in respect  
of the remuneration of the wider employee population. Mercer is a division of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (“MMC”). Another division 
of MMC provides broker services with regard to the Group medical insurance. However, notwithstanding this relationship, the Committee  
is satisfied that Mercer’s advice to the Committee is objective and independent, as they are two distinct autonomous business divisions 
within MMC.
Shareholder voting at AGM
The 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM. At the AGM held in 2016, votes 
cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Resolution Votes for
% of votes 
for
Votes  
against
% of votes 
against
Votes 
withheld 
Total  
votes cast
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
280,045,922 98.81 3,360,057 1.19 523,513 283,929,492
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
At the AGM held in 2015, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration policy were as follows:
Resolution Votes for
% of votes 
for
Votes  
against
% of votes 
against
Votes 
withheld 
Total  
votes cast
To approve the Directors’  
Remuneration Policy 262,212,314 99.24 2,021,422 0.76 213,680 264,447,416
Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2017
The Remuneration Policy adopted at the AGM held in 2015 will continue to be implemented during 2017 as follows:
Base salary
The CEO’s base salary was reviewed on listing and also at the end of 2016 to determine the appropriate salary for the coming year. The 
CEO’s base salary was reduced by 10% effective on 1 May 2016 however the Committee ensures that the remuneration package remains 
competitive in line with current market levels. As a point of comparison, decreases to salary levels for the workforce generally ranged from 
0% to 10% during 2016, averaging 6%. Accordingly, base salary for 2017 will be as follows: 
Base salary 
from 1 January 
2017 
US$’000
Base salary 
from 1 January 
2016 
US$’000 % decrease
Duncan Anderson
1
416 431 -3%
1 Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67.
Allowances and benefits for 2017
The cash allowances for 2017 comprise payments to cover costs of air travel and transport and for 2017 will be as follows: 
Allowances 
from 1 January 
2017 
US$’000
Allowances 
from 1 January 
2016 
US$’000 % decrease
Duncan Anderson
1
37 37 0%
1 Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67.
Other benefits to be provided directly include accommodation, private medical insurance for the executive and close family, death in service 
insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees. 55 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Annual bonus for 2017 
For 2017 the maximum annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of base salary. The annual bonus will be assessed against financial and 
personal objectives to provide a rounded assessment of the Group and individual’s performance, weighted as follows:
Measure Weighting
Adjusted EBITDA 20%
Adjusted EBITDA margin 20%
Net income 10%
Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 10%
Strategic, financial and operational objectives 40%
Total 100%
The Committee considers the targets to be commercially sensitive, but will provide details of performance against the financial targets 
retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results  
or an error in the calculation of performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which  
a payment relates.
 
Long term incentive plan to be granted in 2017
The Committee recognises that the difficult trading conditions within the Industry are expected to continue into 2017. Currently the 
Committee has not decided whether any LTIP would be granted for 2017. However if having considered all relevant information,  
the Committee decides to make an LTIP award to the CEO, this would not exceed 150% of the CEO’s Salary. For any such LTIP award  
granted in 2017, should the Committee decide to grant a 2017 LTIP, the details of the award will be detailed within the RNS announcement  
and any adequate disclosure requirements would be met in the 2017 Annual Report.
End of service gratuity 
As required under the UAE Labour Law, the Company accrues for the end of service gratuity entitlement in respect of the CEO, whereby  
the gratuity is 21 days’ base salary (excluding fixed cash allowances) for each year of the first five years of employment and 30 days’  
wages for each additional year of employment thereafter, up to a limit of two years’ total wages.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors’ remuneration is determined by the Board, based on the responsibility and time committed to 
the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual Non-executive Directors do not take part in discussions regarding their 
own fees. The Chairman and Non-executive Directors receive no other benefits and do not participate in short-term or long-term reward 
schemes. A summary of the current fees and those for 2017 are set out below; no increase in fee levels is proposed in 2017. The Chairman 
and Non-executive Directors’ annual fees were reduced by 10% effective on 1 May 2016 however the Committee ensures that the 
remuneration package remains competitive in line with current market levels. Please note that fees are determined in Pound Sterling.
Annual fee 2017 
£’000
Annual fee 2016 
£’000 % decrease
Chairman 158 163 -3%
Non-executive Director base fee 45 47 -4%
Additional fees:
Senior Independent Director 5 5 0%
Audit and Risk Committee Chair 5 5 0%
Remuneration Committee Chair 5 5 0% 56 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Directors’ single total figure of remuneration earned in 2016 (audited)
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2016. 
Fixed element of pay Pay for performance
Base salary 
US$’000
Allowances 
and 
benefits
1
 
US$’000
End of 
service 
gratuity
2
 
US$’000
Annual 
bonus
4
 
US$’000
Long-Term 
Incentives
5
 
US$’000
Other 
US$’000
Total 
remuneration 
US$’000
Executive Director 
Duncan Anderson
3
2016 431 168 48 323 – – 970
2015 440 167 51 253 – – 911
Fees 
2016  
US$’000
Fees 
2015  
US$’000
Total  
remuneration 
2016  
US$’000
Total  
remuneration 
2015  
US$’000
Chairman
6
Simon Heale 222 268 222 268
Non-executive Directors
6
H. Richard Dallas
7
63 77 63 77
Dr Karim El Solh 63 77 63 77
Simon Batey 77 92 77 92
Mike Straughen
7
63 77 63 77
W. Richard Anderson 70 84 70 84
Non-executive Director total 558 675 558 675
1  Allowances include fixed cash allowances for air travel and transport. Other benefits include accommodation (US$ 87,094), private medical insurance for the executive and immediate 
family, death in service insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees. 
2 End of service gratuity is the provision accrued for in the year in accordance with UAE Labour Law. Pension provision is not a feature of UAE remuneration packages.
3 Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67. 
4 Annual bonus for the financial year. 
5 Share plans vesting represent the value of LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year.
6 The Chairman and Non-executive Directors’ remuneration is paid in Pound Sterling and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1.36/£1 during 2016. 
7 Independent Non-executive Director Mike Straughen and Non-executive Director H. Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS Board with effect from 1 January 2017. 
Christopher Foll was appointed as an Alternate Director on 27 February 2014; he receives no remuneration for this appointment.
Performance against Annual bonus targets for 2016 (audited)
For 2016 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was set at 100% of base salary. The annual bonus was assessed against the following 
financial and personal objectives:
Measure Weighting
Performance range  
(from zero to maximum 
pay-out) Result
% of salary 
paid in cash
Profit after tax 25%
Less than US$ 75m – 
greater than US$ 87m US$ 29.4m 0%
Adjusted EBITDA margin 25% Less than 57% – 60% 60% 25%
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 10% Greater than 0.3 – 0 0.20 10%
Strategic, financial and operational objectives 40% * * 40%
Total 100% 75%
 
*  Objectives set related to key operational, financial and strategic objectives, with targets for each aligned with delivery of the Company’s annual corporate objectives and long-term 
financial plan. The details of these objectives are commercially sensitive, however in 2016 they included the delivery of certain new build SESVs on schedule and on budget, progression 
of the cantilever system and development and implementation of a strategic plan for the Group. These measures were fully achieved and therefore resulted in a payment of 40% out  
of a possible 40%.
Accordingly, the total payments under the annual bonus plan were US$ 323,000. The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions 
apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or an error in the calculation of performance targets. 
Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which a payment relates. 57 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
LTIP awards vesting for 2016 (audited)
LTIP awards were granted 8th May 2014 over 184,327 ordinary shares. The LTIP was assessed against the following financial objectives:
Measure Weighting
Performance range 
(from zero to maximum 
pay-out) Result
% of award 
vesting
Number of 
shares 
vesting
EPS growth
1
75%
Less than 15% -  
greater than 21.5% Less than 15% 0% 0
TSR
2
25%
Less than Median -  
Upper Quartile
Less than 
median 0% 0
Total 100% 0% 0
1  EPS Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) is measured against a baseline for EPS at 31 December 2013.
2 TSR compared to the FTSE 250 Index, excluding financial services companies.
Long term incentive awards granted during the year and Directors’ interests in share plan awards (audited) 
The Committee granted an LTIP award to the CEO in May 2014 over shares with a value of 120% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject  
to the achievement of specific performance conditions and continued employment, in May 2017. In 2015 the Committee granted an LTIP 
award to the CEO in March 2015 over shares with a value of 150% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject to the achievement of specific 
performance conditions and continued employment, in March 2018. In 2016 the Committee granted an LTIP award to the CEO in March  
2016 over shares with a value of 150% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject to the achievement of specific performance conditions  
and continued employment, in March 2019. A summary of the LTIP awards granted is provided in the tables below. The LTIP awards do  
not include consideration for accrued dividends during the performance period. 
 
Date of grant
Number of 
shares Face value
Face value as 
a percentage 
of salary
End of 
performance 
period
Performance 
conditions
Duncan Anderson
1
8 May 2014 184,327 US$ 497,863 120%
31 December 
2016 See table below
Duncan Anderson
2
25 March 2015 346,572 US$ 660,982 150%
31 December 
2017 See table below
Duncan Anderson
3
22 March 2016 677,168 US$ 653,873 150%
31 December 
2018 See table below
1 Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 8 May 2014, being 161.75p per share and assumes all performance conditions are 
met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £1: US$ 1.67. The minimum award available is nil.
2  Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 24 March 2015, being 128p per share and assumes all performance conditions are 
met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £1: US$ 1.49. The minimum award available is nil.
3 Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 22 March 2016, being 71p per share and assumes all performance conditions are 
met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £1: US$ 1.36. The minimum award available is nil.
The table below shows the performance conditions of the LTIP awards.
Performance condition Weighting Threshold target (30% vesting) Stretch target (100% vesting)
Duncan Anderson (8 May 2014)
EPS CAGR 75% 15% per annum 21.5% per annum
Relative TSR 25% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
Duncan Anderson (25 March 2015)
EPS CAGR 50% 20% per annum 26.5% per annum
Relative TSR 50% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
Duncan Anderson (22 March 2016)
EPS CAGR 50% 6.2% per annum 9.7% per annum
Relative TSR 50% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
1 FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services companies.
Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error in the calculation of 
performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year in which an award vests. 58 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Awards outstanding under the Company’s LTIP comprise:
Grant date
No. of 
shares 
01/01/16
Granted 
during the 
year
Vested 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
No. of 
shares 
31/12/16
End of 
performance 
period
Vesting 
date
8 May 2014 184,327 – – – – 184,327
1
31/12/16 08/05/17
25 March 2015 346,572 – – – – 346,572 31/12/17 25/03/18
22 March 2016 – 677,168 – – – 677,168 31/12/18 22/03/19
Total awards outstanding 1,208,067
1 Awards made on 8 May 2014, will vest In May 2017 and lapse.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares (audited)
Through participation in performance-linked share-based plans, there is strong encouragement for Executive Directors to build and 
maintain a significant shareholding in the business.
As set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee requires any Executive Director to build and maintain a shareholding in the 
Company equivalent to 100% of base salary. Until this threshold is achieved they are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax 
value of any share award that vests. A new appointment will be expected to reach this guideline in three to five years post-appointment. The 
Chairman and Non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline. 
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2016 were as follows:
 
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 December 
2016 
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 December 
2015
Shareholding 
 ownership 
requirement 
met?
Outstanding 
LTIP awards
Duncan Anderson 2,014,622 2,614,622 Yes 1,208,067
Simon Heale 74,074 74,074 N/A –
H. Richard Dallas 18,518 18,518 N/A –
Dr Karim El Solh 296,296 296,296 N/A –
Simon Batey 37,037 37,037 N/A –
Mike Straughen 37,327 37,327 N/A –
W. Richard Anderson 153,453 153,453 N/A –
1 There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 10 March 2017. 
2  Full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during business hours. 
3 There are no other share, share option schemes or outstanding share awards other than LTIP awards.
4 2,614,622 restricted shares were awarded to Duncan Anderson at IPO in settlement of outstanding share appreciation rights. These shares are fully vested and are no longer subject 
to a lock-in period.
5 Independent Non-executive Director Mike Straughen and Non-executive Director H. Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS Board with effect from 1 January 2017.
Directors’ pension entitlement (audited)
The Company does not operate a pension scheme and accordingly no element of remuneration is pensionable. 
Payments to former directors (audited)
No payments were made to past Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2016.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2016. 59 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the variance in base salary, allowances and benefits, and annual bonus for the CEO in the 2016 financial year, 
compared to that for the average employees:
 
% change
Chief Executive Officer
Base salary -3%
Allowances and benefits 0%
Bonus 28%
All employees
Base salary -6%
Allowances and benefits 1%
Bonus 16%
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows overall expenditure on pay in the whole Group in 2015 and 2016 financial years, compared to returns to shareholders 
through dividends:
2016  
US$’000
2015  
US$’000 % change
Overall expenditure on pay 38,254 40,668 6%
Dividends proposed 7,130 8,489 -16%
T otal shareholder return performance graph
This graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of £100 invested in Gulf Marine Services PLC on 14 March 2014 (being the date  
that shares were first admitted to conditional trading) compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial 
services companies over the same period. 
Gulf Marine Services PLC
FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased)
13 March 201431 December 201431 December 2016 31 December 2015 0
80
100
120
140
20
40
60
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during the 2016 financial year are shown in the table below. Consistent with the calculation 
methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus award based on that 
year’s performance and the LTIP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus pay out 
and LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for this year. 
 
Year ending 31 December
2016 2015 2014 2013
Total remuneration (US$’000) 970 911 1,003 826
Annual bonus % 33% 28% 35% 29%
LTIP vesting % – – – –
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including the Annual Report on Remuneration, was approved by the Board on 27 March 2017 for 
presentation to shareholders at the AGM.
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
27 March 2017 60 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Chairman:
Simon Heale
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director: Simon Batey
Non-executive Director:
Dr Karim El Solh
Independent Non-executive Directors:
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen*
Committee members
Governance
REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for 2016. 
Our role is to assist the Board in the key areas of composition and 
succession planning for the Board and the senior management of 
the Group. Having an appropriate range of high-calibre Directors  
on our Board is key to determining and maximising success in the 
Group’s strategic objectives. Establishing appropriate succession 
planning for the existing Board and senior management is essential 
to ensuring that this success can be sustained over the long term.
The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities include:
• regularly reviewing the composition, structure and size of the 
Board and its Committees;
• considering succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives and in doing this considering diversity, experience, 
knowledge and skillsets; and
• leading the process for Board appointments and making 
recommendations to the Board in respect of new appointments.
Board and Committee composition
Throughout the year, the composition of the Nomination Committee 
remained in compliance with the Code which provides that 
independent non-executive Directors should comprise the majority 
of the Committee. 
The annual Board and Committee evaluation process led by the 
Nomination Committee, which is discussed further below, brought 
about a review of the appropriate composition of the Board and 
 its Committees. Following the evaluation, it was determined that  
it would be appropriate to reduce the size of the Board. It was 
concluded that this would provide a Board that was of a composition 
more suited to the size of the Company with decision making 
operating at maximum effectiveness, whilst also allowing the Board 
to retain an appropriate balance of independence, and to remain  
in compliance with the Code.
Factors considered during the review process included: the nature 
of the Company; the need to ensure that the Board is of a size  
which facilitates effective decision making; and the need to retain  
an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, industry 
expertise, and knowledge, on the Board. The provision of the Code 
applicable to smaller companies (being companies outside of the 
FTSE 350), recommends that a smaller company, such as GMS, 
requires only two independent non-executive Directors on its Board.
Accordingly the Committee recommended to the Board that an 
independent non-executive Director and a non-executive Director  
of the Company step down. The Board agreed that Mike Straughen 
and H. Richard Dallas would step down from their roles, with effect 
from 1 January 2017. The Board determined that the Board, following 
this reduction in size, continued to be able to discharge its 
responsibilities effectively. 
As part of the above review, the Nomination Committee considered 
the composition of each of the Board’s Committees. Following  
a recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the Board 
decided it would be appropriate for non-executive Director Dr Karim 
El Solh to step down from the Nomination Committee, whilst 
continuing to be invited to attend meetings as an observer, from 
1 January 2017. Accordingly, the Nomination Committee (and all  
other Committees of the Board) continues to remain in compliance 
with the Code. 
Board and Committee evaluation
Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving their 
aims is the effectiveness in which they operate and accordingly, we 
take our evaluation very seriously. The Committee also identifies  
the future training requirements of the Board, as part the Board’s 
ongoing development programme. 
In 2016, a Board evaluation process was conducted by way of  
a questionnaire, which was completed on an anonymous basis  
by each of the Directors. The Committee has assessed the results  
of the Board evaluation process and, in light of the findings, we have 
concluded that the performance of each of the Directors standing 
for re-election continues to be effective and that these Directors 
demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of 
time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.  
As a smaller company, under the Code, the Company is not required 
to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation within a given 
timeframe. However, the Board considers an externally facilitated 
evaluation to be a valuable exercise and intends to undertake one 
for 2017, being the third full financial year after the Company’s listing 
in 2014. 
My performance as Chairman is evaluated by the other non-
executive Directors. The evaluation, led by the Senior Independent 
non-executive Director, is carried out at least annually and also takes 
into account the views of the senior management team.
*  Mike Straughen stepped down from the Board and the Nomination Committee 
with effect from 1 January 2017.  61 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Re-election of Directors
The biographical details of the Directors can be found on  
pages 38 to 39. All of the Company’s current Directors will stand  
for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive 
Directors, which includes their expected time commitment, are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
Diversity
Currently all members of the Board are male however the 
Nomination Committee very much takes into account the benefits  
of diversity on the Board, including gender and variety of experience. 
The Board remains diverse in terms of the range of nationality and 
international experience of its members. The Directors’ broad range 
of experience and expertise covers relevant technical, operational, 
financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise as well as the 
valuable experience of operating in the energy industry on an 
international basis.
The Company aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its 
succession planning process. Whilst seeking to achieve this aim, the 
Company will not appoint an individual to the Board unless they are 
considered the best candidate for the role, whether male or female. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 32 to 33 
provides further information on the Group’s workforce.
Succession planning
The Committee is aware of its responsibilities in relation to Board 
and senior management succession plans to ensure that unforeseen 
changes are managed effectively and efficiently, without disruption 
to the Group’s strategy or day-to-day operations. The Committee 
has developed a comprehensive succession planning process for 
senior management across the Group. It includes encouragement 
and facilitation of the development of each individual, including 
internal career progression opportunities as they arise.
The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the 
individuals’ currently fulfilling key senior management positions  
in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, 
knowledge and experience.
Simon Heale
Nomination Committee Chairman
27 March 2017 62 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC present their Annual Report 
and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2016. This Directors’ Report, prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the UK 
Listing Authority’s Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, contains certain statutory, regulatory and other information. 
Strategic Report 
Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year 
and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic 
Report required by sections 414A to D of the UK Companies Act 
2006 can be found in the Strategic Report section on pages 8 to 21 
of this document, which forms part of this report by reference.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance Statement is set out on 
pages 38 to 61 and forms part of this report by reference.
Directors
A list of the Directors who served during the period and their 
biographies can be found in the Corporate Governance Report  
on pages 38 to 39. 
Powers of Directors 
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our 
Articles of Association (the “Articles”), which are available on our 
website at www.gmsuae.com. The Articles may be amended by a 
special resolution of the members. The Directors may exercise all  
of the Company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable 
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised 
by the members (shareholders).
Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors  
are contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be 
appointed by ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution 
of the Directors. All our Directors must be approved by the Board 
before they stand for re-appointment by shareholders.
Directors wishing to continue to serve will seek re-election annually 
in accordance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary 
resolution of which special notice has been given, in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006. 
Amendments to the Articles of Association 
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special 
resolution passed at a General Meeting of shareholders.
Indemnification of Directors 
The Company has provided indemnification for Directors in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles and the Companies  
Act 2006. As far as is permitted by legislation, all Officers of the 
Company are indemnified out of the Company’s own funds against 
any liabilities and associated costs which they could incur in the 
course of their duties for the Company, other than any liability to  
the Company or an associated company.
Compensation for loss of office
The Company does not have agreements with any Director that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s 
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such 
plans to vest on a takeover.
Share capital and control 
Details of the Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 
2016 can be found in note 13 to the consolidated financial 
statements, on page 93. The Company’s share capital comprises 
ordinary shares, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Ordinary shares 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends (when 
declared by the Board or approved by members), receive copies  
of the Company’s Annual Report, attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, appoint proxies and exercise voting 
rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the 
holding, of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain approval 
prior to any transfers. No ordinary shares carry any special rights 
with regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions 
on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights  
per share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are 
held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known 
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally 
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. 
Authority to purchase the Company’s own shares
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in the financial 
year to 31 December 2016 or in the period between the year end  
and the date of this report. 
The Company is due to have its 2017 AGM on 16 May 2017 and the 
Directors will be seeking approval from shareholders, to authorise 
the Company to purchase up to 10% of its existing ordinary share 
capital. This authority would expire at the Company’s 2018 AGM; 
however, it is intended that this authority be renewed each year.  
For more information on this resolution refer to the Notice of AGM 
and explanatory notes on pages 116 to 121.  63 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Substantial shareholders
The Directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the shares of the Company:
Significant direct/indirect 
interest
As at  
31 December 2016 
Number of shares
As at  
31 December 2016 
% voting rights
As at  
10 March 2017 
Number of shares
As at  
10 March 2017  
% voting rights
Green Investment 
Commercial Investments 169,119,602 48.39 157,019,602 44.92
Aberforth Partners 28,056,885 8.03 28,322,088 8.10
Horizon Energy 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Al Ain Capital 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Standard Life Investments 9,418,056 2.69 15,291,982 4.38
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank 10,142,458 2.90 10,142,458 2.90
Citibank (Switzerland) 10,060,338 2.88 9,163,835 2.62
Significant agreements 
As at 31 December 2016 the Company was party to the following 
significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate, or have 
the potential to do so, on a change of control of the Company:
Relationship Agreement 
The Relationship Agreement dated 14 March 2014 amongst Green 
Investment Commercial Investments LLC (GICI), Ocean Investments 
Trading LLC (Ocean), Horizon Energy LLC (Horizon), Al Ain Capital 
LLC (Al Ain) and the Company provides that it shall terminate on 
there ceasing to be a “Principal Shareholder” holding at least 10%  
of the issued share capital of the Company or shares carrying at 
least 10% of the aggregate voting rights in the Company from time 
to time. In this context a “Principal Shareholder” is any of (a) GICI and 
Ocean together, (b) Horizon and (c) Al Ain. 
The relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint one 
Director to the Board, and for so long as a Principal Shareholder 
Group holds 15% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of  
the Company, the relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to 
appoint two Directors to the Board. Currently the relevant Principal 
Shareholder has appointed Dr Karim El Solh. The Company has 
further agreed that, subject to the Gulf Capital Shareholders 
(comprising Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC,  
and Ocean Investments Trading LLC, both beneficially owned by  
GC Equity Partners Fund II, L.P.), having the requisite aggregate 
shareholding to appoint a Director as described above: (i) Christopher 
Foll shall be given notice of, be invited to, and have the right to attend 
meetings of the Board as an observer, but shall not be entitled to 
vote and (ii) H. Richard Dallas shall be given notice of, be invited to, 
and have the right to attend meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee as an observer, but shall not be entitled to vote.
The Relationship Agreement has not been amended since adoption 
and is in compliance with the Listing Rules. The relevant Principal 
Shareholder has not appointed a second Director to the Board 
following the stepping down from the Board of H. Richard Dallas, 
effective from 1 January 2017. Dr Karim El Solh was appointed to  
the Board by the relevant Principal Shareholder in 2014.
Initial supplemental purchase undertaking
The Group refinanced its debt with a syndicate of banks coordinated 
by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) in 2015. The initial 
supplemental purchase undertaking made on 29 November 2015 by 
Gulf Marine Middle East FZE (GMME), a member of the Group, to and 
for the benefit of ADCB provides that, in the event of a person or 
persons acting in concert acquiring control of the Company, ADCB 
shall be entitled to serve a notice on GMME exercising its option to 
sell to GMME assets currently leased by GMME from ADCB under 
related finance lease arrangements. If ADCB serves such a notice 
following a change of control of the Company, GMME is obliged to 
purchase the leased assets in their then current condition on an “as 
is where is” basis at a price determined by a detailed formula set out 
in the undertaking.
Share incentive schemes
All of the Company’s share-based employee incentive plans detailed 
in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 47 to 59 
contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company. 
Vesting of outstanding awards and options on a change of control 
would normally be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
who would take into account the satisfaction of any applicable 
performance conditions at that time and the expired duration of the 
relevant performance period.
Executive service contracts 
The service contracts for the Company’s executive Directors and 
senior management include provisions applicable to a change of 
control in the Company. Further details of these service contracts 
are described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Operational contracts 
The Group is party to a limited number of operational arrangements 
that have the potential to be terminated or altered on a change  
of control of the Company, but these are not considered to be 
individually significant to the business of the Group as a whole.
Risk regarding the use of financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies 
including the use of financial instruments are set out in note 34  
to the consolidated financial statements on pages 100 to 102. 
Post balance sheet events
The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 1.20 pence 
(1.50 cents) per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2016. This is to be proposed at the Annual General 
Meeting. These final statements do not reflect this final dividend. 
There have been no other events subsequent to 31 December 2016 
for disclosure. 
Likely future developments 
Information in respect of likely future developments in the business 
of the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on pages  
8 to 21 and forms part of this report by reference. 
Research and development
The Group did not undertake any research and development 
activities during the year (2015: none). 64 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance
Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year (2015: nil).
The existence of branches outside the UK
The Group has branches in the Netherlands and Qatar. 
Employees and policies 
The Group operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat 
individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, 
ethnic origin or disability or on any other basis. Applications for 
employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees  
are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career 
development and promotion.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be 
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person. Where 
existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy 
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under 
normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career 
development and promotion opportunities to disabled employees 
wherever appropriate.
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information 
about the Group and keeping them up to date on financial, economic 
and other factors which affect the Group has been continued 
through internal media methods. Employees have also been 
encouraged to present their suggestions and views on the Group’s 
performance. Regular meetings are held between local management 
and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
Health and safety
Information on health and safety is provided on pages 14, 17, 20 and 
24, and forms part of this report by reference.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information on the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is set out  
in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 32 to 33  
and forms part of this report by reference.
Dividends
The Board recommended the policy of a constant dividend per  
share for 2016. The Board may decide to revise this policy if deemed 
appropriate. 
The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) 
per share in respect of the 2016 financial year. Shareholders will  
be asked to approve the dividend at the AGM on 16 May 2017, for 
payment on 19 May 2017 to ordinary shareholders whose names  
are on the register on 18 April 2017.
Going concern 
The Group is expected to continue to generate positive operating 
cash flows on its own account for the foreseeable future and has  
in place a committed capex loan facility of US$ 175.0 million, of which 
US$ 95.0 million remained undrawn as at 27 March 2017. The Group 
also has access to a committed working capital facility of US$ 50 
million, the total facility remained undrawn at 27 March 2017.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, 
and after reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a period of not less 
than 12 months from the date of approval of the Annual Report, the 
Group’s Directors have a reasonable expectation that, taking into 
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance and 
appropriate mitigating actions, the Group will be able to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they have 
adopted the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. 
More information on the going concern status of the Group can be 
found in the going concern section of note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 81. Details of the Group’s objectives 
and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposure to 
credit and liquidity risk can be found in note 34 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 100 to 102. The principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 19 to 21. 
Information on the Group’s longer-term viability is provided within 
the risk management section on pages 18 to 21.
Statement on disclosure to the external auditor
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information, 
which would be needed by the Company’s external auditor in 
connection with preparing its audit report (which appears on pages 
68 to 72) of which the external auditor is not aware; and each 
Director, in accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 
2006, has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken  
as a Director to make himself aware of any such information and  
to ensure that the external auditor is aware of such information.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP, the Group’s auditors, have indicated their willingness  
to continue in office and in accordance with Section 489 of the Act,  
a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to the 2017 Annual 
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s 2017 AGM will take place at 11.30am (UK time) on 
Tuesday 16 May 2017 at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, 
EC2Y 8HQ. All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and 
vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM. The notice of the AGM can 
be found on page 116 and on the Company’s website. The Notice of 
AGM sets out the business of the Meeting and an explanatory note 
on all resolutions. Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of 
each substantive issue.
This Annual Report, including this Directors’ Report, as well as the 
Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Statement, was 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
John Brown
Company Secretary 
27 March 2017
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED 65 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), 
including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in 
the UK and Republic of Ireland”. Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and  
of the profit or loss of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole,  
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 27 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by:
Duncan Anderson  John Brown
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
27 March 2017  27 March 2017 66 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 73
Company Financial Statements 104
FINANCIAL 
ST A TEMENTS 67 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 68 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Gulf Marine Services PLC
In our opinion: •  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in 
the UK and Republic of Ireland”; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise:
• the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity; and
• the related notes 1 to 37 in respect of the Group and 1 to 12 in respect of the Parent Company.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements 
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 102 
“The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
 
Summary of our audit approach
Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were:
• Impairment of the Group’s vessels; and
• Revenue recognition.
The risks included within our report are consistent with those included in our 2015 audit report, except that  
we no longer consider capitalisation of vessel costs to be a key risk as the Group’s new building programme  
is coming to an end and we have not historically noted any significant findings in this area.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was US$ 3.5 million. 
Scoping We identified the Group’s business to be a single component, and therefore all operations of the Group  
were subject to a full scope audit. All audit work for the Group was performed directly by the audit  
engagement team.
Significant changes 
in our approach
Except for the change in key risks outlined above, there have been no significant changes in our audit 
approach compared to the prior year. 
 
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis  
of accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group 
contained within the strategic report on page 21.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 21 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 19 to 21 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
• the Directors’ statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over 
a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
• the Directors’ explanation on page 21 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 69 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the 
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. 
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those 
standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation  
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
 
Impairment of the group’s vessels 
Risk description The group’s vessels are its sole revenue generating assets, with a carrying value of US$ 730.3 million at 
31 December 2016 (2015: US$ 706.2 million) which represents 77% of the Group’s total assets at that date.  
Their recoverable amount is based on an assessment of the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in 
use. Estimates of fair value less costs to sell take into consideration vessel valuations from an independent 
ship broker, whilst value in use is calculated as the net present value of estimated future cash flows, in each 
case on a vessel by vessel basis. In the current year, there is a risk that recoverable amounts could be 
adversely impacted by the significant and prolonged fall in prevailing oil & gas prices, due to the resultant 
impact on the Group’s customer base in the oil & gas industry. 
Management has assessed recoverable amount based on the estimated value in use of each vessel, which in 
all cases was higher than fair value less costs to sell. The key assumptions utilised in these calculations include, 
on a vessel by vessel basis:
• forecast utilisation;
• forecast day rates;
• cost assumptions; and
• discount rate.
As referenced in note 4 of the financial statements the carrying value of the Group’s vessels is considered by 
management as a critical accounting judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty.
The Group has recorded a US$ 21.3 million impairment charge in respect of 4 of its vessels. Further details of 
the Group’s vessels and the current year impairment charge is provided in note 8 to the financial statements 
and in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 44.
How the scope of our  
audit responded to  
the risk
We challenged the assumptions made by management on a vessel by vessel basis by reference to publicly 
available information, our knowledge of the Group and industry and the Group’s most recent budget.  
This included:
• understanding the process by which management has derived its value in use estimates;
• evaluating the design and implementation of management’s controls to address the risk of impairment  
of the Group’s vessels;
• comparing forecast utilisation and day rates to those achieved in prior periods;
• comparing forecast day rates to signed contracts for contracted periods, and challenging the basis 
adopted for day rates elsewhere in the calculations;
• using our internal valuation specialists to perform an independent recalculation of the discount rate;
• performing sensitivity tests tailored to each vessel class, using more conservative assumptions for future 
day rates to take into consideration the current market conditions described above; and
• testing the clerical accuracy of the calculations.
Key observations We are satisfied that the impairment charges recorded by management are appropriate and that no additional 
impairments have arisen during the year. 70 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC CONTINUED
Revenue recognition
Risk description Each of the Group’s vessels earns revenues on the basis of a specific contract with the relevant counterparty. 
Each contract will typically specify a day rate, which can vary significantly by vessel and by counterparty, as 
well as a standby rate for when the vessel is available for use but not operational. Certain contracts also 
include amounts payable to the Group in respect of mobilising the vessel at the inception of the contract and/
or demobilising the vessel at the end of the contract term. As disclosed in the accounting policies in note 3 
lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) and fees received for contract-specific 
equipment modifications or upgrades are initially deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the contract. The costs of related equipment modifications or upgrades are capitalised and depreciated in 
accordance with the Group’s fixed asset capitalisation policy. Demobilisation revenue at the end of the contract 
is recognised when received.
Accordingly, in order for revenue to be recorded appropriately, for each vessel the company needs to:
• accurately record the number of days both on hire and on standby (to ensure both completeness  
and accuracy); 
• apply the correct contractual rates, net of any discounts, to the number of days in each of these categories 
(to ensure accuracy); and
• ensure mobilisation and demobilisation revenue has been appropriately recorded in accordance with the 
terms of the contract and the accounting policies above.
Due to the significant variability in contract terms by vessel and by counterparty, we have identified the 
complete and accurate recording of revenue as a key audit risk.
Further details of revenue arising in the year is provided in note 23 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our  
audit responded to  
the risk
We have obtained a detailed schedule analysing the revenue earned by month and by vessel, which specifies 
both the number of days on hire/on standby and the relevant contractual rate, and agreed this to the general 
ledger. On a sample basis we have :
• agreed the days on hire/standby to a report from the Group’s operations department, to confirmation of 
days worked signed by the customer, as well as to invoice (which state the number of days to which it 
relates);
• performed an analysis on the number of days on hire/standby, obtaining supporting explanation for any 
gaps and reconciling this to our knowledge of each vessel’s operational performance during the year;
• agreed the day rate to the underlying contract; 
• recalculated the revenue figure and agreed this to both invoice and either subsequent cash received or the 
year end debtors schedule; and
• for mobilisation and demobilisation revenue, determined whether revenue has been recorded in accordance 
with the terms of the contract and the Group’s accounting policy in this area.
We have also evaluated the design and implementation of management controls to address the risk of 
inappropriate revenue recognition.
Key observations Our testing showed that revenue has been recorded in accordance with the terms of the underlying contracts 
and the Group’s accounting policies in this area.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 71 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Group materiality US$ 3.5 million (2015: US$ 3.8 million)
Basis for determining 
materiality
We considered a number of metrics, being pre-tax profit for the year (excluding impairments), average pre-tax 
profit for the last three years (excluding impairments), net assets and earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and impairment (“adjusted EBITDA”).
Rationale for the 
benchmark applied
We consider that users of the financial statements are focused on both the group’s short term financial 
performance, reflected in its pre-tax profits and adjusted EBITDA, as well as its longer term earnings potential 
as reflected in the scale of its net assets base. In considering pre-tax profit we have excluded impairments as 
they would distort materiality year-on-year. US$ 3.5 million represents 6.7% of 2016 pre-tax profit (excluding 
impairments), 5% of average pre-tax profit for the last three years (excluding impairments), less than 1% of net 
assets and 3.3% of adjusted EBITDA. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 5% of Group materiality,  
being US$ 175,000 (2015: 2% of Group materiality, being US$ 76,600), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We have increased the threshold to 5% to reflect the low levels of misstatements identified historically.  
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we identified the Group’s business to be a single 
component, and therefore all operations of the Group were subject to a full scope audit. During the course of the audit, senior members of 
the UK audit team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, supervised the members of the audit team who are based in the United Arab 
Emirates, and visited the United Arab Emirates operations during the interim and completion stages of the audit.
 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not 
identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report.
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our 
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating  
to the company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters. 72 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC CONTINUED
Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued
Our duty to read other 
information in the  
Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, 
balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements
 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Paterson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London
27 March 2017 73 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Notes
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Revenue 23 179,410 219,713
Cost of sales (83,761) (87,491)
Impairment charge 8, 10 (21,307) –
Gross profit 74,342 132,222
General and administrative expenses (21,636) (20,875)
Finance income 25 75 640
Finance expense 24 (20,181) (34,134)
Other loss (759) (740)
Foreign exchange loss, net 26 (1,023) (32)
Profit for the year before taxation 30,818 77,081
Taxation charge for the year 20 (1,377) (2,058)
Profit for the year 26 29,441 75,023
Other comprehensive income – items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: 
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (1,378) (817)
Total comprehensive income for the year 28,063 74,206
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 29,509 74,776
Non-controlling interests 33 (68) 247
29,441 75,023
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 28,131 73,959
Non-controlling interests 33 (68) 247
28,063 74,206
Earnings per share 
Basic (cents per share) 7 8.44 21.39
Diluted (cents per share) 7 8.34 21.25
All results are derived from continuing operations in each year. 74 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
as at 31 December 2016
Notes
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 852,398 796,261
Intangibles 9 – 375
Dry docking expenditure 10 4,327 6,510
Deferred tax asset 455 –
Fixed asset prepayments 66 261
Total non-current assets 857,246 803,407
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 11 23,945 59,876
Cash and cash equivalents 12 61,575 60,834
Total current assets 85,520 120,710
Total assets 942,766 924,117
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital 13 57,929 57,929
Share premium account 13 93,075 93,075
Restricted reserve 17 272 272
Group restructuring reserve 14 (49,710) (49,710)
Share option reserve 15 1,702 1,409
Capital contribution 16 9,177 9,177
Translation reserve (2,015) (637)
Retained earnings 333,259 311,760
Attributable to the owners of the Company 443,689 423,275
Non-controlling interests 33 560 628
Total equity 444,249 423,903
Non-current liabilities
Bank borrowings 19 401,599 347,253
Obligations under finance leases 31 – 39,577
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 21 3,181 3,391
Deferred tax liability 13 13
Total non-current liabilities 404,793 390,234
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 28,787 33,883 
Current tax liability 2,832 3,208 
Bank borrowings 19 22,021 17,863 
Obligations under finance leases 31 40,084 55,026 
Total current liabilities 93,724 109,980
Total liabilities 498,517 500,214
Total equity and liabilities 942,766 924,117
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 March 2017. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
Duncan Anderson    John Brown 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 75 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Share
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium  
account
US$’000
Restricted
reserve
US$’000
Group 
restructuring 
reserve
US$’000
Share 
option 
reserve
US$’000
Capital 
contribution
US$’000
Translation 
reserve
US$’000
Retained
earnings
US$’000
Attributable 
to the 
owners  
of the 
Company
US$’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
US$’000
Total
equity
US$’000
Balance at  
1 January 2015 57,929  93,247 272 (49,437) 563 9,177 180 246,631 358,562 610 359,172
Total comprehensive 
income –  –  –  –  –  –  (817) 74,776  73,959  247  74,206 
Share options rights 
charge (note 35) –  –  –  –  846  –  –  –  846  –  846 
Group restructuring 
reserve –  –  –  (273) –  –  –  –  (273) –  (273)
Acquisition of 
interest in joint 
venture –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (1,816) (1,816) (229) (2,045)
Share issue cost –  (172) –  –  –  –  –  – (172) –  (172)
Dividends paid 
during the year 
(note 36) –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (7,831) (7,831) –  (7,831)
Balance at  
1 January 2016 57,929 93,075 272 (49,710) 1,409 9,177 (637) 311,760 423,275 628 423,903
Total comprehensive 
income –  –  –  –  –  –  (1,378) 29,509 28,131  (68)  28,063 
Share options rights 
charge (note 35) –  –  –  –  293  –  –  – 293 – 293 
Dividends paid 
during the year 
(note 36) –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (8,010) (8,010) –  (8,010) 
Balance at 
31 December 2016 57,929 93,075 272 (49,710) 1,702 9,177 (2,015) 333,259 443,689 560 444,249
Please refer to note 18 for description of each reserve. 76 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Net cash generated from operating activities (note 28) 126,297 124,960
Investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment (147,089) (184,403)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 109 768
Movement in capital advances 195 489 
Drydocking expenditure incurred (2,594) (7,320)
Movement in pledged deposits – 299 
Movement in guarantee deposits 81 (247)
Interest received 75 640
Net cash used in investing activities (149,223) (189,774)
Financing activities
Bank borrowings received 105,000 485,000
Repayment of bank borrowings (44,938) (370,500)
Payment of issue cost on borrowings (2,700) (9,921)
Share issue cost paid – (172)
Interest paid (22,166) (25,832)
Payment on obligations under finance lease (3,519) (4,628)
Dividends paid (8,010) (7,831)
Net cash provided by financing activities 23,667 66,116
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 741 1,302
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 60,834 59,532
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 12) 61,575 60,834
Non-cash transactions
Finance lease transaction (note 8) – 53,000 77 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2016
1 General information
Gulf Marine Services PLC (“GMS” or “the Company”) is a Company which registered in England and Wales on 24 January 2014. The Company 
is a public limited company with operations mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and Europe. The address of the registered office of 
the Company is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The principal activities of GMS and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) are investing in, establishing and managing 
commercial, and industrial projects as well as chartering and operating a fleet of specially designed and built vessels. All information in the 
notes relates to the Group, not the Company unless otherwise stated.
The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in providing self-propelled, self-elevating support vessels which provide the stable platform 
for delivery of a wide range of services throughout the total lifecycle of offshore oil, gas and renewable energy activities and which are 
capable of operations in the Middle East, South East Asia, West Africa and Europe.
2 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent 
with those followed in the preparation of the Group’s annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, except for the 
adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2016.
New and revised IFRSs applied with no material effect on the consolidated financial statements
The following new and revised IFRSs have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements. The application of these new and 
revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years but may affect the accounting  
for future transactions or arrangements.
New and revised IFRSs Summary of requirements
Amendments to IFRS 10, 
IFRS 12 and IAS 28 
Investment Entities: 
Applying the 
Consolidation Exception
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the 
Consolidation Exception for the first time in the current year. The amendments clarify that the exemption from 
preparing consolidated financial statements is available to a parent entity that is a subsidiary of an investment entity, 
even if the investment entity measures all its subsidiaries at fair value in accordance with IFRS 10. The amendments 
also clarify that the requirement for an investment entity to consolidate a subsidiary providing services related to the 
former’s investment activities applies only to subsidiaries that are not investment entities themselves.
As the Company is not an investment entity and does not have any holding company, subsidiary, associate or joint 
venture that qualifies as an investment entity, the adoption of the amendments has had no impact on the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 11 
Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests 
in Joint Operations 
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations  
for the first time in the current year. The amendments provide guidance on how to account for the acquisition of a 
joint operation that constitutes a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Specifically, the amendments 
state that the relevant principles on accounting for business combinations in IFRS 3 and other standards should be 
applied. The same requirements should be applied to the formation of a joint operation if and only if an existing 
business is contributed to the joint operation by one of the parties that participate in the joint operation.
A joint operator is also required to disclose the relevant information required by IFRS 3 and other standards for 
business combinations.
The adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 1 
Disclosure Initiative
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative for the first time in the current year. The 
amendments clarify that an entity need not provide a specific disclosure required by an IFRS if the information 
resulting from that disclosure is not material, and give guidance on the bases of aggregating and disaggregating 
information for disclosure purposes. However, the amendments reiterate that an entity should consider providing 
additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users of 
financial statements to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions on the entity’s 
financial position and financial performance.
In addition, the amendments clarify that an entity’s share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint 
ventures accounted for using the equity method should be presented separately from those arising from the Group, 
and should be separated into the share of items that, in accordance with other IFRSs: (i) will not be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss; and (ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
The amendments also address the structure of the financial statements by providing examples of systematic 
ordering or grouping of the notes. 
The adoption of these amendments has not resulted in any impact on the financial performance or financial position 
of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 16 
and IAS 38 Clarification 
of Acceptable Methods 
of Depreciation and 
Amortisation
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 
and Amortisation for the first time in the current year. The amendments to IAS 16 prohibit entities from using a 
revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment. The amendments to IAS 38 
introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of an intangible asset. 
This presumption can only be rebutted in the following two limited circumstances: 
a) when the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue; or b) when it can be demonstrated that revenue 
and consumption of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are highly correlated.
As the Group already uses the straight-line method for depreciation and amortisation for its property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets, respectively, the adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements. 78 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) continued
New and revised IFRSs applied with no material effect on the consolidated financial statements continued 
New and revised IFRSs Summary of requirements
Amendments to IAS 16 
and IAS 41 Agriculture: 
Bearer Plants
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants for the first time in the 
current year. The amendments define a bearer plant and require biological assets that meet the definition of a bearer 
plant to be accounted for as property, plant and equipment in accordance with IAS 16, instead of IAS 41. The produce 
growing on bearer plants continues to be accounted for in accordance with IAS 41. 
The adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements as the 
Group is not engaged in agricultural activities.
Amendments to IAS 27 
Equity Method in  
Separate Financial 
Statements
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements for the first 
time in the current year. The amendments focus on separate financial statements and allow the use of the equity 
method in such statements. Specifically, the amendments allow an entity to account for investments in subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates in its separate financial statements:
• at cost,
• in accordance with IFRS 9 (or IAS 39 for entities that have not yet adopted IFRS 9), or
•  using the equity method as described in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The same accounting must be applied to each category of investments. 
The amendments also clarify that when a parent ceases to be an investment entity, or becomes an investment 
entity, it should account for the change from the date when the change in status occurs.
The adoption of the amendments has had no impact on the Company’s separate financial statements as the 
Company accounts for investments in subsidiaries and associates at cost and is not an investment entity.
Annual Improvements to 
IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRSs included in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle 
for the first time in the current year. 
The amendments to IFRS 5 introduce specific guidance in IFRS 5 for when an entity reclassifies an asset (or disposal 
group) from held for sale to held for distribution to owners (or vice versa). The amendments clarify that such a change 
should be considered as a continuation of the original plan of disposal and hence requirements set out in IFRS 5 
regarding the change of sale plan do not apply. The amendments also clarifies the guidance for when held-for-
distribution accounting is discontinued. 
The amendments to IFRS 7 provide additional guidance to clarify whether a servicing contract is continuing 
involvement in a transferred asset for the purpose of the disclosures required in relation to transferred assets.
The amendments to IAS 19 clarify that the rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations should be 
determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. The 
assessment of the depth of a market for high qualify corporate bonds should be at the currency level (i.e. the same 
currency as the benefits are to be paid). For currencies for which there is no deep market in such high quality 
corporate bonds, the market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds denominated in that 
currency should be used instead. 
The adoption of these amendments has had no effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective 
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRSs were in issue but not yet effective:
New and revised IFRSs
Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 2 (amendments) Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018
IAS 7 (amendments) Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendments) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its  
Associate or Joint Venture
Effective date deferred indefinitely
Management anticipates that the adoption of these IFRSs in future periods will have no material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group in the period of initial application, with the exception of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 for which the Management is 
currently in the process of assessing the impact of adoption.
3 Significant accounting policies
The Group’s significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to each of the years presented.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) and therefore the financial information presented complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) including International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). 79 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and share 
based payments that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period. Historical cost is generally based 
on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets. 
For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair 
value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows:
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date; 
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
or indirectly; and 
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of GMS and entities controlled by GMS (its subsidiaries). Management have 
assessed the control which GMS has over its subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which provides that 
an investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Company has investments in the following subsidiaries. 
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name
Place of  
registration
Registered  
Address 2016 2015 Type of activity
Gulf Marine Services W.L.L. Abu Dhabi MN1 Mussafah Base, Mussafah 
Industrial Area Abu Dhabi, P.O. Box 
46046 United Arab Emirates 
100% 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt. SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Khawla 
181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Helios” 
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Atlas” 
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kawawa” 
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kudeta”  80 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
3 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name
Place of  
registration
Registered  
Address 2016 2015 Type of activity
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands Ugland House, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1104, Cayman Islands, P.O. Box 309
100% 100% General investment 
and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom c/o MacKinnon’s, 14 Carden Place, 
Aberdeen, AB10 1UR 
100% 100% Operator of offshore 
barges
Gulf Marine Saudi Arabia Co. Limited Saudi Arabia P. O. Box 257, Dammam 31411 Saudi 
Arabia 
75% 75% Operator of offshore 
barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 1 Scotts Road, #21-07, Shaw Centre, 
Singapore, 228208 
100% 100% Operator of offshore 
barges
GMS Enterprise Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Enterprise”
GMS Sharqi Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Sharqi”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Scirocco”
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Shamal”
GMS Jersey Holdco. 1 Limited
+
Jersey 43/45 La Motte Street, St Helier, 
Jersey, JE4 8SD 
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Jersey Holdco. 2 Limited Jersey 43/45 La Motte Street, St Helier, 
Jersey, JE4 8SD 
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Marine Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates ELOB, Office No. E-16F-04, P.O. Box 
53944, Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah 
100% 100% Operator of 
Offshore Barges
GMS Global Commercial Invt LLC United Arab Emirates Al Mariah Island, Al Sowwa Square, 
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Keloa Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Keloa”
GMS Pepper Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% – Owner of Barge 
“Pepper”
GMS Evolution Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama
100% – Owner of Barge 
“Evolution”
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by other 
members of the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interests of non-controlling 
shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to 
acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling 
interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results 
in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 81 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration 
paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Group. Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are 
accounted for using the acquisition method. 
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are 
recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Fair value is determined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability 
transferred, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3(2008) are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate  
of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest, and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the  
assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained 
earnings) in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of any investment 
retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an 
investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Going concern 
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the 
Group’s current and forecast financial position, including the capital commitments described in note 30. Further information on the use of 
the going concern basis has been disclosed in the Directors’ report.
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course  
of the Group’s activities. Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow  
to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and is stated net of sales taxes if applicable (such as VAT) and discounts. 
If advances are received from customers for future contractual services, the revenue is deferred until the services are provided. 
Charter revenue
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for the 
chartering of vessels in respect of multi-year service contracts. Income from vessels hired on time and voyage charters and from the hire  
of equipment or personnel is accounted for on a time apportionment basis in line with agreed contract terms. 
Contract mobilisation/demobilisation revenue
Charter contracts generally provide for payment on a daily rate basis, and revenues are recognised as the work progresses with the 
passage of time. In addition, lump-sum payments are occasionally received at the outset or at the end of a contract for equipment moves  
or modifications. Lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) and fees received for contract-specific equipment 
modifications or upgrades as part of mobilisations are initially deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. 
Lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) as part of demobilisations are recognised as the services relating to the 
demobilisation are rendered. 
The costs of contractual equipment modifications or upgrades to vessels that are permanent in nature are capitalised and depreciated  
in accordance with the Group’s fixed asset capitalisation policy. The costs of moving equipment while not under contract are expensed  
as incurred. 
Revenue is recognised for certain reimbursable costs. Each reimbursable item and amount is stipulated in the Group’s contract with the 
customer, and such items and amounts are variable from contract to contract. Reimbursable costs are recognised on the gross basis, as 
both revenues and expenses, because the Group is the primary obligor in the arrangement, has discretion in supplier selection, is involved  
in determining product or service specifications and assumes full credit risk related to the reimbursable costs.
Revenue from messing and accommodation services 
Revenue from these services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for 
providing accommodation and messing services which may include catering and cleaning services. 
Interest income
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition. 82 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
3 Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Maintenance income
Maintenance income relates to maintenance work which is carried out on vessels during times that the vessel is on hire. This is done 
periodically throughout the year and is charged to customers in accordance with agreed contractual daily rates. Maintenance revenue  
is recognised when the work takes place. 
Sundry income
Sundry income relates to handling charges which are applied to costs which are paid by the Group and then recharged to the customer.  
The revenue is recognised when the costs are recharged to customers with the handling charge applied. 
Leasing
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic 
basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising 
under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more 
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower,  
at the present value of the minimum lease payments calculated using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The corresponding liability  
to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to 
qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (see below).
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (if any). The cost of 
property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Subsequent expenditure incurred 
on vessels is capitalised where the expenditure gives rise to future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of 
performance of the existing assets.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment less their residual values over their useful lives, using 
the straight-line method. The residual values of vessels and related equipment are determined taking into consideration the expected scrap 
value of the vessel, which is calculated based on the weight and the market rate of steel at the time of asset purchase. If the price per unit  
of steel at the balance sheet date varies significantly from that on date of purchase, the residual value is reassessed to reflect changes in 
market value. The estimated useful lives used for this purpose are:
Vessels 25-35 years
Land, buildings and improvements 3-20 years 
Vessel spares, fittings and other equipment 3-20 years 
Office equipment and fittings 3-5 years 
Motor vehicles 3 years 
Taking into consideration independent professional advice, management considers the principal estimated useful lives of vessels for the 
purpose of calculating depreciation to be 25 to 35 years from the date of construction. 
The estimated useful life depends on the type and nature of the vessel. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method 
are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between  
the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.  
The depreciation charge for the period is allocated between cost of sales and administrative expenses, depending on the usage of the 
respective assets.
Standby equipment 
The cost of purchased second hand engines and related refurbishment expenses which are classified as standby equipment are capitalised 
and depreciated from the date that the engine has been made ready for use and installed on the vessel. 
Second hand refurbished engines are depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life of the refurbished second hand standby 
equipment or the life of the vessel on which such equipment is installed. 
Repair expenses relating to used engines belonging to the Group are charged to administrative expenses when incurred.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 83 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Dry docking
The costs incurred for periodical dry docking or major overhauls of the vessels are identified as a separate inherent component of the 
vessels and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the period to the next anticipated dry dock being approximately 30 months. 
For acquired or newly built vessels, a notional dry dock cost is allocated from the vessel’s cost based on experience of similar vessels,  
and (if material) depreciated on a straight-line basis to the next anticipated dry docking. If a dry docking occurs prior to its anticipated date, 
any remaining capitalised dry docking expenditure is expensed.
Capital work-in-progress
Properties and vessels under the course of construction, are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional 
fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs under capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Depreciation of these 
assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives used for 
this purpose are:
Customer relationships 10 years
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at 
the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. The amortisation expense on 
intangibles is included as a part of general and administrative expenses.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses 
arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill 
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of 
an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable 
and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they 
are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset 
may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which 
they are incurred.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 84 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
3 Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions continued
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognised 
as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Employees’ end of service benefits 
In accordance with the applicable Labour Laws of the UAE, the Group is required to pay end of service benefits to all qualifying employees 
upon cessation of employment. The only obligation of the Group with respect to end of service benefits is to make the specified lump sum 
payments to employees which become payable when they leave the Group for reasons other than gross misconduct. The amount payable 
is calculated as a multiple of a pre-defined fraction of basic salary based on the number of full years of service. 
To meet the requirement of the UAE labour laws, a provision is made for the full amount of end of service benefits payable to qualifying 
employees up to the end of the reporting period. The provision relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.  
The provision has not been subject to a full actuarial valuation or discounted as the impact would not be material.
The actual payment is made in the year of cessation of employment of a qualifying employee. The payment for end of service benefit is 
made as a lump sum along with the full and final settlement of the employee. 
The total expense recognised in profit or loss of loss of US$ 0.8 million (2015: US$ 1.2 million) represents end of service benefit provision 
made to employees in accordance with the UAE Labour Laws.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of these financial statements US Dollars (US$) is the functional currency of the Group 
and the presentation currency of the Group. In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies 
other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates 
prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates 
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on monetary items 
receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net 
investment in a foreign operation, and which are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in profit or loss on 
disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial information, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s subsidiaries are expressed in 
US Dollars using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
equity (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate).
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of 
control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, loss of joint control over a jointly-controlled entity that includes a foreign 
operation, or loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the accumulated exchange differences in 
respect of that operation attributable to the Group are reclassified to profit or loss. Any exchange differences that have previously been 
attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised, but they are not reclassified to profit or loss.
Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from “profit before tax” as reported in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income because of items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years 
and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 85 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Long-term incentive plans
The fair value of an equity instrument is determined at the grant date based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted. If market prices are not available for share awards, the fair value of the 
equity instruments is estimated using a valuation technique to derive an estimate of what the price of those equity instruments would have 
been at the relevant measurement date in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Equity-settled share based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the instruments, using a binomial model together with 
Monte Carlo simulations as at the grant date, and is expensed over the vesting period. The value of the expense is dependent upon certain 
key assumptions including the expected future volatility of the Group’s share price at the date of grant. The fair value measurement reflects 
all market-based vesting conditions. Service and non-market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the number of 
rights that are expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. 
Financial assets
The Group has the following financial assets: cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances 
to suppliers) and amounts due from related parties. These financial assets are classified as “loans and receivables”. The classification 
depends on the nature and purpose of the financial asset and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and balances held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
T rade and other receivables and amounts due from related parties
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances to suppliers) and due from related parties that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest 
rate, except for short-term receivables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial assets are considered to be 
impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
• default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
• it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are 
subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include  
the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit 
period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision is determined by 
reference to previous experience of recoverability for receivables in each market in which the Group operates.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. 86 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
3 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial assets continued
Impairment of financial assets continued
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring 
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the 
carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had 
the impairment not been recognised.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained 
interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss “FVTPL ” or “other financial liabilities”.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities and are held at FVTPL. 
Derivatives held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Trade and other payables, bank borrowings, loans from related parties, amounts due to related parties and other liabilities are classified as 
“other financial liabilities”. Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other 
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on 
an effective yield basis, except for short-term payables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of 
the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk. As at 31 December 2016, the 
Group did not have any open derivative financial instruments.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities or financial assets and are held 
at FVTPL. Derivatives held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss 
immediately. All derivatives are carried at their fair values as assets where the fair values are positive and as liabilities where the fair values 
are negative. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more 
than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or 
current liabilities.
Fair values of the derivatives are carried out by independent valuers by reference to quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and 
recognised pricing models as appropriate. They represent Level 2 financial instruments under the IFRS hierarchy. Changes in the fair value 
of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. Derivative financial 
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as held for trading derivatives.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 87 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimation, which management have made in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Management evaluate the carrying amounts of the Group’s vessels and vessels under construction to determine whether there is any 
indication that those vessels have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of vessels is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. As part of the process of assessing fair values less 
costs to sell of the vessel, management obtain vessel valuations from leading, independent and internationally recognised ship brokers on 
an annual basis or when there is an indication that the value of the vessel may be impaired. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.5% that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. The projection of 
cash flows related to vessels is complex and requires the use of various estimates including future day rates, vessel utilisation and discount 
rates. Further details of impairment charges during the year are provided in note 8.
Impairment of accounts receivable
An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.  
The Group reviews the ageing of trade receivables regularly and the need for allowances against doubtful debts is considered for trade 
receivables that are past due based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience of the 
counterparty and an analysis of the counterparty’s current financial position. Any difference between the amounts actually collected  
in future periods and the amounts expected to be impaired will be recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Further details in this area are provided in note 11.
Critical accounting judgements 
Capitalisation of vessel costs
Management exercises judgement in assessing the extent to which costs incurred in relation to its vessel fleet, including overheads,  
dry docking expenditure and finance charges, meet the criteria for capitalisation under IFRS. Judgement is also required in determining the 
date at which vessels under construction are ready for use at which point capitalisation of the majority of costs ceases and depreciation 
commences. Further details of expenditure incurred during the year is provided in note 8.
Leases
Management exercises judgements in assessing whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. The judgement as to which 
category applies to a specific lease depends on management’s assessment of whether in substance the risks and rewards of ownership  
of the assets have been transferred to the lessee. In the instances where management estimates that the risks and rewards have been 
transferred, the lease is considered as a finance lease, otherwise it is accounted for as an operating lease. Further details in this area are 
provided in notes 31 and 32.
5 Segment reporting 
Management have identified that the Directors and senior management team are the chief operating decision makers in accordance with 
the requirements of IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”. Segment performance is assessed based upon adjusted gross profit, which represents 
gross profit before depreciation and amortisation and loss on write off of assets. The reportable segments have been identified by 
management based on the size and type of asset in operation.
The operating and reportable segments of the Group are (i) Small Class vessels which includes the Naashi, Kamikaze, Kikuyu, Kawawa, 
Kudeta, Keloa, Kinoa and Pepper vessels, (ii) Mid-Size Class vessels which includes the Shamal, Scirocco and Sharqi vessels, (iii) Large Class 
vessels which includes the Endeavour, Endurance and Enterprise vessels, and (iv) Other vessels considered non-core assets, which includes 
two legacy non-SESV vessels and one accommodation barge (Khawla) which do not form part of the Small, Mid-Size or Large Class 
vessels segments.  88 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
5 Segment reporting continued
All of these operating segments earn revenue related to the hiring of vessels and related services including charter hire income, messing 
and accommodation services, personnel hire and hire of equipment. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the 
Group’s accounting policies described in note 3. 
Revenue Adjusted gross profit*
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Small Class vessels 76,836 114,468  55,851  82,667 
Mid-Size Class vessels 32,959 14,459 18,041  10,120 
Large Class vessels 68,701 86,390 53,202 64,646 
Other vessels 914 4,396 (119) 880 
 179,410  219,713 126,975 158,313 
Less:
Depreciation charged to cost of sales (27,151) (22,467)
Amortisation charged to cost of sales (4,175) (3,624)
Impairment charge (21,307) –
Gross profit 74,342 132,222
General and Administrative expenses (21,636) (20,875)
Finance income 75 640
Finance expense (20,181) (34,134)
Other income 88 305
Loss on sale of asset (847) (1,045)
Foreign exchange loss, net (1,023) (32)
Profit before taxation 30,818 77,081
*Please refer to the Glossary.
The total revenue from reportable segments which comprises the Small, Mid-Size and Large Class vessels is US$ 178.50 million 
(2015: US$ 215.32 million). The Other segment does not constitute a reportable segment per IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Segment revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There were no inter-segment sales in the periods.
Segment assets and liabilities, including depreciation, amortisation and additions to non-current assets, are not reported to the chief 
operating decision makers on a segmental basis and are therefore not disclosed.
Information about major customers
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue. During the year, three customers (2015: three) 
individually accounted for more than 10% of the Group’s revenues. The related revenue figures for these major customers, the identity of 
which may vary by year, were US$ 51.46 million (2015: US$ 47.07 million), US$ 40.46 million (2015: US$ 46.93 million) and US$ 24.45 million 
(2015: US$ 36.43 million). The revenue from these customers is attributable to the Large Class vessels, Mid-Size Class vessels and Small 
Class vessels reportable segments.
Geographical segments 
Revenue by geographical segment is based on the geographical location of the customer as shown below. 
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
United Arab Emirates 109,740 129,320
Qatar 14,401 17,657
Rest of Middle East and North Africa 8,858 11,581
Total – Middle East and North Africa 132,999 158,558
United Kingdom 24,455 36,425
Netherlands 16,708 19,515
Rest of Europe 5,248 5,215
Total – Europe 46,411 61,155
Worldwide Total 179,410 219,713
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 89 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
6 Presentation of adjusted non-GAAP results
The following table provides a reconciliation between the Group’s adjusted non-GAAP and statutory financial results: 
Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015
Adjusted
non-GAAP
results
US$’000
Adjusting
items
US$’000
Statutory
total
US$’000
Adjusted 
non-GAAP
results
US$’000
Adjusting
items
US$’000
 Statutory
total
US$’000
Revenue  179,410  –  179,410  219,713  –  219,713 
Cost of sales  
– Operating expenses (52,435) – (52,435) (61,400) –  (61,400)
– Depreciation and amortisation (31,326) – (31,326) (26,091) –  (26,091)
– Impairment charge
*
– (21,307) (21,307) – – –
Gross profit  95,649 (21,307) 74,342  132,222  –  132,222 
General and administrative
– Depreciation (1,451) – (1,451) (1,094) –  (1,094)
– Other administrative costs (20,185) – (20,185) (19,781) –  (19,781)
Operating profit 74,013  (21,307) 52,706  111,347  –  111,347 
Finance income 75  – 75  640  –  640 
Finance expense (20,181) – (20,181) (24,268) –  (24,268)
Expensing of refinancing costs
**
 –  –  –  –  (9,866) (9,866)
Other income 88  –  88  305  –  305 
Loss on sale of asset (847) –  (847) (1,045) –  (1,045)
Foreign exchange loss, net (1,023)  –  (1,023) (32) –  (32)
Profit before taxation 52,125  (21,307) 30,818  86,947  (9,866) 77,081 
Tax (1,377)  –  (1,377) (2,058) –  (2,058)
Net profit  50,748 (21,307) 29,441  84,889  (9,866) 75,023 
Profit attributable to 
Owners of the Company 50,816  (21,307) 29,509  84,642  (9,866) 74,776 
Non-controlling interest (68) –  (68) 247  –  247 
Earnings per share  14.54 (6.10) 8.44  24.22 (2.83) 21.39 
Supplementary non-statutory 
information
Operating profit 74,013 (21,307)  52,706 111,347 –  111,347 
Add: Depreciation and  
Amortisation charges 32,777 – 32,777 27,185 –  27,185 
Non-GAAP EBITDA 106,790 (21,307) 85,483  138,532  –  138,532 
* The impairment charge on certain vessels being non-operational in nature has been added back to net profit to arrive at adjusted net profit for the year.
** The write-off of unamortised arrangement fees being non-operational in nature has been added back to net profit to arrive at adjusted net profit in 2015.
7 Earnings per share
2016
US$
2015
US$ 
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share being profit for the year attributable to 
owners of the parent (US$’000) 29,509 74,776
Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share (US$’000) (see note 6) 50,816 84,642
Weighted average number of shares (‘000) 349,528 349,528
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue (‘000) 354,012 351,946
Basic earnings per share (cents) 8.44 21.39
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 8.34 21.25
Adjusted earnings per share (cents) 14.54 24.22
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (cents) 14.35 24.05
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (as disclosed in the statement  
of comprehensive income) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses the earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share (shown 
above) adjusted by adding back the impairment charge mainly on non-core vessels which has been charged to the income statement  
(US$ 21.3 million). The adjusted earnings per share is presented as the Directors consider it provides an additional indication of the 
underlying performance of the Group. 90 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
7 Earnings per share continued
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, adjusted for the weighted average effect of share options outstanding during the year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses adjusted profit (note 6) attributable to equity holders of the 
Company.
The following table shows a reconciliation between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Weighted average basic number of shares in issue 349,528 349,528
Effect of share options under LTIP schemes 4,484 2,418
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue 354,012 351,946
8 Property, plant and equipment
Vessels
US$’000
Capital 
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building and  
improvements
US$’000
Vessel 
Spares, 
fittings and 
other 
equipment
US$’000
Others
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 615,168  88,711  7,400  10,586  4,845  726,710 
Additions 64,626  139,197  622  861  56  205,362 
Transfers 146,942  (146,472) 771  (1,544) 303  – 
Disposals (635) –  (74) (14) (1,066) (1,789)
Balance at 1 January 2016 826,101  81,436  8,719  9,889  4,138  930,283 
Additions 1,280 104,640 – 71  35  106,026 
Transfers 70,639 (77,737) 1,580 5,025  493  – 
Disposals (1,130) – – (21) (121) (1,272)
Balance at 31 December 2016 896,890 108,339 10,299 14,964  4,545  1,035,037 
Vessels
US$’000
Capital 
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building and  
improvements
US$’000
Vessel 
Spares, 
fittings and 
other 
equipment
US$’000
Others
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Accumulated depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2015 98,514 – 4,424 5,823 3,425 112,186
Eliminated on disposal of assets (186) – (74) (14) (1,076) (1,350)
Depreciation expense  21,621 – 300  663  602 23,186 
Balance at 1 January 2016 119,949 – 4,650 6,472 2,951 134,022
Eliminated on disposal of assets (191) – – (4) (121) (316)
Depreciation expense 26,216 – 579 774  658  28,227 
Impairment charge 20,621 – – 85  –  20,706 
Balance at 31 December 2016 166,595 – 5,229 7,327 3,488 182,639
Carrying amount
Balance at 31 December 2016 730,295 108,339 5,070 7,637 1,057 852,398
Balance at 31 December 2015 706,152  81,436  4,069  3,417  1,187 796,261 
The carrying amount of vessels held under finance leases is US$ 38.4 million (2015: US$ 100.2 million). During the year the Group purchased 
the formerly leased vessel Pepper for US$ 51.0 million (note 31). In 2015, the Group entered into a finance lease for the vessel Pepper with 
the related addition of US$ 53.0 million.
Depreciation amounting to US$ 27.2 million (2015: US$ 22.5 million) has been allocated to cost of sales. The balance of the depreciation 
charge is included in administrative expenses.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 91 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Included in additions to the vessels under construction is US$ 2.4 million (2015: US$ 5.8 million) in respect of capitalised borrowing costs.  
The capitalisation rate used to determine this figure was 3.99% (2015: 5.56%) based on specific borrowing rates.
Certain vessels, with a total net book value of US$ 566.6 million (2015: US$ 465.2 million), have been mortgaged as security for the loans 
extended by the Group’s bankers (note 19).
Impairment assessment 
The Group undertook a full impairment review of its fixed assets during the year and an impairment loss of US$ 21.3 million was identified on 
the Group’s non-core assets and a leased Small Class vessel accounted for as a finance lease. The impairment on the non-core assets, 
comprising of two anchor tug supply vessels and an accommodation barge, is a result of the impact the continued low oil price had on the 
charter rates and utilisation levels of those vessels. The recoverable amount of the non-core assets of US$ 1.1 million was lower than the 
carrying amount of the assets and therefore an impairment charge of US$ 14.7 million was booked. The Group is currently in discussions 
with a third party for the disposal of the non-core assets and accordingly the recoverable amount of US$ 1.1 million has taken into 
consideration the likely realisable value.
Whilst there was no impairment on the SESVs owned by the Group the impairment loss on the leased Small Class vessel, on which the  
Group holds an option to purchase in 2017, arose as the Group is unlikely to exercise the purchase option given the current low oil price 
environment. The lease liability is released at a faster rate than the rate at which the asset is depreciated. Consequently, the recoverable 
amount of the leased asset of US$ 37.9 million was lower than the carrying amount of the asset resulting in an impairment of US$ 6.6 million. 
The total impairment loss of US$ 21.3 million has been charged to cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
For the purpose of the impairment assessment, each vessel is considered a separate cash-generating unit (CGU) and management has 
estimated the recoverable amounts of its vessels based on their value in use. The cash flow projections used in determining the value in  
use of each CGU were based on forecasts prepared by management taking into account past experience. The average compound annual 
growth rates (CAGR) in revenue for the CGUs were assumed as an average upward revision of 6.8% between 2017 and 2022, remaining flat 
thereafter. The CAGR is dependent on the average utilisation and charter rate of the vessels. 
The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.5% which was estimated taking into consideration the weighted 
average cost of capital of a portfolio of peer group companies with similar assets. The discount rate reflects current market assessments  
of the time value of money, the risks associated with the cash flows, and the expected levels of leverage. Consideration has also been given 
to other factors such as currency risk, operational risk and country risk.
9 Intangible assets
 
Customer 
relationships
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost 7,337 7,337
Accumulated amortisation
Balance at 1 January 2015 6,587 6,587
Amortisation expense 375 375
Balance at 1 January 2016 6,962 6,962
Amortisation expense 375 375
Balance at 31 December 2016 7,337 7,337
Carrying amount
Balance at 31 December 2016 – –
Balance at 31 December 2015 375 375
The intangible assets were acquired as part of the acquisition of Gulf Marine Services WLL and Offshore Holding Investment Group (OHI) in 2007. 
Amortisation of intangibles amounting to US$ 0.4 million (2015: US$ 0.4 million) has been allocated to general and administrative expenses.
10  Dry docking expenditure
The movement in dry docking expenditure is summarised as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
At 1 January 6,510 4,177 
Expenditure incurred during the year 2,594 7,320
Disposals – (1,363)
Amortised during the year (4,176) (3,624)
Impairment charge (primarily on leased vessel. See note 8) (601) –
At 31 December 4,327 6,510
Amortisation for the year has been charged to cost of sales. 92 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
11  Trade and other receivables
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Trade receivables 19,289 54,700 
Accrued income 1,787 503 
Prepayments and deposits
*
2,349 3,918 
Advances to suppliers 128 540 
Other receivables 322 145 
Due from related parties (see note 27) 70 70 
23,945 59,876
*  Prepayments and deposits include guarantee deposits and pledged deposits of US$ 0.69 million (2015: US$ 0.77 million). Guarantee deposits are paid by the Group for employee work 
visas under UAE labour laws. These deposits become refundable to the Group upon the cancellation of an employee’s work visa. Work visas are not granted indefinitely in the UAE and 
as such these deposits which are currently held by the government in the UAE are refundable to the Group. These work visa deposits amounted to US$ 0.65 million (2015: US$ 0.73 
million). Pledged deposits represent an amount set aside as a guarantee for a loan repayment amounting to US$ 0.04 million (2015: US$ 0.04 million). The Group has no right to access 
or utilise the proceeds set-aside as pledged deposits, other than for repayment of the underlying loan. 
Trade receivables, amounting to US$ 16.8 million (2015: US$ 34.0 million), have been assigned as security against the loans extended by the 
Group’s bankers (note 19).
Trade receivables and other receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised 
cost. Trade and other receivables are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is 
approximately equal to their fair value due to the very short time between inception and maturity (based on level 2 fair value measurements 
as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13). 
The normal credit period granted to customers is 30-45 days (2015: 30-45 days). Before accepting any new customer the Group assesses 
the potential credit quality of the customer. The Group has policies in place to ensure that credit sales are rendered to customers with an 
appropriate credit history.
The Group reviews the ageing of trade receivables regularly and the need for allowances against doubtful debts is considered for trade 
receivables over 60 days based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience of the 
counterparty and an analysis of the counterparty’s current financial position.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset 
against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables during the year was as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
At 1 January – 1,383
Provision during the year 2,287 614
Recovery – (925)
Write-off – (1,072)
At 31 December 2,287 –
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date 
credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. T rade receivables are considered past due once they have passed their contracted due date.
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$ 7.39 million (2015: US$ 9.98 million) which are 
past due for 30 days or more at the reporting date. The average age of these receivables is 96 days (2015: 72 days).
At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Current
US$’000
 Number of days past due 
Total
US$’000
 < 30 days 
US$’000
 31-60 days 
US$’000
 61-90 days 
US$’000
 91-120 days 
US$’000
 > 120 days 
US$’000
Trade Receivables 10,722  3,469  3,383  88  –  3,914  21,576 
Less: Allowance for 
doubtful receivables (607) (611) (897) (88) –  (84) (2,287)
Net T rade Receivables 2016 10,115  2,858  2,486  –  –  3,830  19,289 
Trade Receivables 31,721  13,000  1,856  2,543  3,722  1,858  54,700 
Less: Allowance for 
doubtful receivables –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Net Trade Receivables 2015 31,721  13,000  1,856  2,543  3,722  1,858  54,700 
Several customers account for a significant portion of the total trade receivables balance (see revenue by segment information in note 5); however, 
credit risk is considered to be limited due to historical performance and ongoing assessments of customer credit and liquidity positions. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 93 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
12  Cash and cash equivalents 
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Interest bearing
Held in UAE banks 11,671 35,922
Non-interest bearing
Held in UAE banks 43,265 5,323
Held in banks outside UAE 7,326 20,357
Total cash at bank and in hand 62,262 61,602
Presented as:
Restricted cash included in trade and other receivables (note 11) 687 768
Cash and cash equivalents 61,575 60,834
Total 62,262 61,602
The carrying value of these cash assets is approximately equal to their fair value due to the liquid nature of the asset. These represent  
level 1 fair value measurements as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. 
13  Share capital
The Company was incorporated on 24 January 2014 with a share capital of 300 million shares at a par value of £1 each. On 5 February 2014, 
as part of a Group restructuring, the Company undertook a capital reduction by solvency statement, in accordance with s643 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Accordingly, the nominal value of the authorised and issued ordinary shares was reduced from £1 to 10p. 
On 19 March 2014, the Company completed its initial public offering (IPO) on the London Stock Exchange. A total of 49,527,804 shares with  
a par value of 10 pence per share were issued at a price of 135 pence (US$ 2.24) per share. 
The movement in issued share capital and share premium is provided below.
 
The share capital of Gulf Marine Services PLC was as follows:
Number
of ordinary 
shares
 (thousands)
Ordinary
shares
 US$’000
Total 
US$’000
At 31 December 2016
Authorised Share Capital 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued and fully paid 349,528 57,929 57,929
At 31 December 2015
Authorised Share Capital 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued and fully paid 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued share capital and share premium account were as follows:
Number  
of ordinary 
shares
(thousands)
Ordinary 
shares
US$’000
Share 
premium  
account
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
At 31 December 2016 349,528 57,929 93,075 151,004
At 31 December 2015 349,528 57,929 93,075 151,004
14  Group restructuring reserve 
The Group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used for the Group 
restructuring. Under this method, the Group is treated as a continuation of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC (the predecessor 
parent company) and its subsidiaries. At the date the Company became the new parent company of the Group via a share-for-share 
exchange, the difference between the share capital of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC and the Company, amounting to 
US$ 49.7 million, was recorded in the books of Gulf Marine Services PLC as a Group restructuring reserve. This reserve is non-distributable.
15  Share option reserve
Share option reserve of US$ 1.7 million (2015: US$ 1.4 million) relates to awards granted to employees under the long-term incentive plan 
(note 35). The charge is included in cost of sales and, general and administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.  94 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
16  Capital contribution
The capital contribution reserve is as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
At 31 December 9,177 9,177
During 2013 US$ 7.8 million was transferred from share appreciation rights payable to capital contribution as, effective 1 January 2013,  
the shareholders have assumed the obligation to settle the share appreciation rights. An additional charge in respect of this scheme  
of US$ 1.4 million was made in 2014. The total balance of US$ 9.2 million is not available for distribution.
17  Restricted reserve
Restricted reserve represents the statutory reserve of certain subsidiaries. As required by the UAE Commercial Companies Law, 10% of 
profit for the year is transferred to the statutory reserve until the reserve equals 50% of the share capital. This reserve is not available  
for distribution. No amounts were transferred to this reserve during any of the years shown.
18  Reserves
The Group’s Statement of Changes in Equity is disclosed as a part of primary statements on pages 73 to 76. Below is a description of the 
nature and purpose of the individual reserves:
• Share capital represents the nominal value of shares issued (note 13).
• Share premium account includes the amounts paid over nominal value in respect of share issued, net of related costs (note 13).
• Restricted reserve includes certain reserves maintained by subsidiaries in compliance with the relevant Companies Law applicable (note 17).
• Capital Contribution represent certain contributions made by shareholder for nil consideration (note 16).
• Group restructuring reserve arose on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used for group 
restructuring (note 14).
• The Company’s Share option reserve represents the cumulative share-based payment charged to reserves (note 15).
• Foreign currency translation reserve represents differences on foreign currency net investments arising from the re-translation  
of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
• Retained profits include the accumulated realised and certain unrealised gains and losses made by the Company and the Group.
19  Bank borrowings
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Term loans 435,061 375,000
Less: Unamortised issue costs (11,441) (9,884)
423,620 365,116
Bank borrowings are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Non-current portion 401,599 347,253
Current portion 22,021 17,863
423,620 365,116
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 95 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
In December 2015, the Group entered into a new facility with key terms of the loan as follows: 
• The bank facility is repayable in 2021;
• The term loan facility to fund capital expenditure amounts to US$ 175.0 million. The Group drew down US$ 80.0 million from the  
loan facility during the year and the balance of US$ 95.0 million is available for draw down until December 2017;
• The revolving working capital facility amounts to US$ 50.0 million. The total facility remained undrawn at 31 December 2016 and  
is available for draw down until December 2017;
• The facility remains secured by mortgages over certain Group vessels, with a net book value at year end of US$ 566.6 million  
(2015: US$ 465.2 million).
Outstanding amount
Unused 
facility
US$’000 Security Maturity
Current
US$’000
Non-
current
US$’000
Total
US$’000
31 December 2016:
Term loan 18,750 337,500 356,250 – Secured November 2021
Working capital facility – – – 50,000 Secured November 2021
Capex facility 4,584 74,227 78,811 95,000 Secured November 2021
Unamortised issue costs (1,313) (10,128) (11,441) –
22,021 401,599 423,620 145,000
31 December 2015:
Term loan 18,750 356,250 375,000 – Secured November 2021
Working capital facility – – – 50,000 Secured November 2021
Capex facility – – – 175,000 Secured November 2021
Unamortised issue costs (887) (8,997) (9,884) –
17,863 347,253 365,116 225,000
20 Taxation charge for the year
Tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The overall effective rate is the aggregate 
of taxes paid in jurisdictions where income is subject to tax (being principally Qatar, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia), 
divided by the Group’s profit.
2016
 US$’000
 2015
 US$’000
Profit from continuing operations before tax 30,818 77,081 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.25%) 6,164 15,609
Effect of lower tax rates in overseas jurisdictions (4,787) (13,551)
Total tax charge 1,377 2,058
Split between:
Current tax 1,114 2,050
Deferred tax 263 8
Tax charge per financial statements 1,377 2,058
Effective tax rate on continuing operations 4% 3%
During the year tax on profits and withholding taxes of the Group from operations were 10% in Qatar (2015: 10%) and 20% in the United 
Kingdom (2015: 20.25%). The Group incurred 5% withholding taxes on revenue (2015: 5%) and 2.5% Zakat tax on profit from operations  
in Saudi Arabia. The withholding tax included in the current tax charge amounted to US$ 0.5 million (2015: US$ 1.0 million). 
The Group expects the overall effective tax rate in the future to vary according to local tax law changes in jurisdictions which incur taxes,  
as well as any changes to the share of the Group profits which arise in tax paying jurisdictions. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of US$ 2.7 million (2015: US$ 6.7 million) available for offset against future  
profits. These tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely.  96 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
21  Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
In accordance with UAE Labour Law the Group is required to provide for end of service benefits for certain employees. The movement in the 
provision for employees’ end of service benefits during the year was as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
At the beginning of the year 3,391 2,468
Provided during the year 780 1,181
Paid during the year (990) (258)
At 31 December 3,181 3,391
22  Trade and other payables
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Trade payables 4,579 6,912
Accrued expenses 20,181 22,527
Deferred revenue 3,286 2,965
VAT and other taxes payable 564 1,311
Other payables 177 168
28,787 33,883 
The average credit period on purchases is 90 days (2015: 90). The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all 
payables are paid within the credit timeframe. No interest is payable on the outstanding balances.
Trade and other payables are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables is approximately 
equal to their fair value due to the short time between inception and maturity. These represent level 2 fair value measurements as defined 
by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
23  Revenue
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue for the year.
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Charter hire 163,785 199,999
Mobilisation and demobilisation 3,867 3,566
Messing and accommodation 10,841 14,335
Maintenance 819 1,608
Sundry income 98 205
179,410 219,713
Further descriptions on the above types of revenue have been provided in note 3.
24  Finance expenses
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Interest on bank borrowings 15,126 13,945
Interest on finance leases 6,362 11,966
Write-off of unamortised loan arrangement fees
*
– 9,866
Amortisation of issue costs and commitment fees 1,143 4,158
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument – 27
Finance expense 22,631 39,962
Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (2,450) (5,828)
20,181 34,134
* Triggered by the loan refinancing in December 2015 (see note 19).
25  Finance income
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Bank and other income 75 640
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 97 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
26  Profit for the year
The profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Total staff costs (see below) 39,492  42,861 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  28,227  23,186 
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 4,176  3,624 
Amortisation of intangibles 375 375 
Provision for/(reversal of) doubtful debts 2,287 (311) 
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument – 27 
Foreign exchange loss, net 1,023 32 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  847 1,045 
Operating leases rentals 405 389 
Auditor’s remuneration 368 368 
The average number of full time equivalent employees (including executive directors) by geographic area was:
2016
Number
2015
Number
Middle East and Northern Africa 603 611 
Rest of the world 79 81 
682 692 
The total number of full time equivalent employees (including executive directors) as at 31 December 2016 was 471 (31 December 2015: 790). 
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Wages and salaries 38,254 40,668 
Employment taxes 165 166 
End of service benefit (note 21) 780 1,181 
Share based payments (note 35) 293 846 
39,492 42,861 
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Group audit fees 204 224
Subsidiary audit fees 40 39
Total audit fees 244 263
Audit-related assurance services – interim review 92 105
Other services 32 –
Total fees 368 368
For further information on the Group’s policy in respect of Auditor’s remuneration see page 45 of the Report of the Audit and 
Risk Committee. 98 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
27  Related party transactions
Related parties comprise the Group’s major shareholders, Directors and entities related to them, companies under common ownership  
and/or common management and control, their partners and key management personnel. Pricing policies and terms of related party 
transactions are approved by the Group’s Board.
Balances and transactions between and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note.
T rading transactions
The following balances were outstanding at the end of the reporting period:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Amounts owed by related parties (see note 11):
Shareholders 70 70
Term loans due to Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (included in borrowings note 19) 194,330 80,000
Bank balances deposited with Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank 33,680 1,533
Key management personnel:
As at 31 December 2016, there were 2,631,327 ordinary shares held by Directors (31 December 2015: 616,705 ordinary shares). 
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Interest expense on loans from related parties 768 398 
Related parties 
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are outlined in note 3. The related parties comprising of the Group’s major shareholders are outlined below. 
Major shareholders Ownership interest 
Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC 48.39%
Aberforth Partners 8.03%
Horizon Energy LLC 6.05%
Al Ain Capital LLC (formerly Al Bateen Investment Company LLC) 6.05%
Partner in relation to Saudi Operations Relationship
Abdulla Fouad Energy Services Company Minority shareholder in GMS Saudi Arabia Ltd. 
Other related parties Relationship
Gulf Capital PJSC (Gulf Capital) 100% shareholding in Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC.
Advises funds that hold shares in the Group. 
GC Equity Partners Fund 
II, L.P. (“GC Equity Partners II”)
An institutional fund sponsored and managed by Gulf Capital. The 
ultimate controlling party of Gulf Capital. 
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank 8.16% Shareholding in Gulf Capital.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel during the year were as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Short-term benefits 3,603 2,962
End of service benefits 136 129
Share based payments (LTIPs) 508 370
Dividends paid 60 4
4,307 3,465
Compensation of key management personnel represents the charge to the income statement in respect of the remuneration of the 
executive and non-executive Directors and certain members of the senior management team. In 2016 there were 11 members of key 
management personnel (2015: ten members).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 99 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
28  Net cash flow from operating activities
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year before taxation 30,818 77,081
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 28,227 23,186
Amortisation of intangibles 375 375
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 4,176 3,624
Impairment charge 21,307 –
End of service benefits charge 780 1,181
End of service benefits paid (990) (258)
Provision for doubtful debts 2,287 614
Recovery of doubtful debts – (925)
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument – 27
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 847 1,045
Share options rights charge 293 846
Interest income (75) (640)
Interest expense 19,199 21,452
Write-off of unamortised issue costs – 7,743
Other income (88) (305)
Amortisation of issue costs 982 2,516
Cash flow from operating activities before movement in working capital 108,138 137,562
Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables 32,962 (9,669)
(Decrease)/Increase in trade and other payables (12,595) 718
Cash generated from operations 128,505 128,611
Taxation paid (2,208) (3,651)
Net cash generated from operating activities 126,297 124,960 
29  Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2016, the bankers of Gulf Marine Services FZE, one of the subsidiaries of the Group, had issued bid bonds, performance 
bonds and labour guarantees amounting to US$ 0.69 million (2015: US$ 0.77 million) all of which were counter-indemnified by other 
subsidiaries of the Group.
30 Commitments
Capital commitments
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Contractual capital commitments 6,423 32,802
Capital commitments comprise mainly of capital expenditure, which has been contractually agreed with suppliers for future periods for new 
build vessels and equipment or the refurbishment of existing vessels.
31  Obligations under finance leases
During the year the option to purchase the leased vessel Pepper for US$ 51.0 million was exercised. The vessel Kinoa is the remaining vessel 
being leased as at 31 December 2016.
The Group’s future minimum lease payments under financing leases are as follows:
Minimum lease payments
Present value of  
minimum lease payments 
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Within one year 43,870 63,257 40,084 55,026
In the second to fifth year – 42,578 – 39,577
43,870 105,835 40,084 94,603
Less: future finance charges (3,786) (11,232) – –
40,084 94,603 40,084 94,603
The Group has the option to purchase the vessel at expiry of the lease period. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations is approximately 
equal to their carrying amount. The fair values of the financial lease obligations were determined in accordance with generally accepted 
pricing models based on a discounted cash flow analysis, using appropriate market interest rates. These represent level 3 value 
measurements as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. 100 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
32  Obligations under operating leases
Operating lease rental payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties. 
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as expense during the year 405 389
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Within one year 1,946 2,526
In the second to fifth year 1,363 4,201
3,309 6,727
Operating leases are negotiated for an average term of three and five years for our UAE and UK offices, respectively and accordingly, rental 
costs are fixed for an average term of three and five years. 
33  Non-controlling interests
The movement in non-controlling interests is summarised as follows:
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
At 1 January 628 610
Share of profit/(loss) for the year (68) 247
Acquisition of interest in joint venture – (229)
At 31 December 560 628
3 4  F inancial instr uments
Categories of financial instruments
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Financial assets:
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents at amortised cost 61,575 60,834
Trade receivables and other debtors at amortised cost 22,155 56,186
Total financial assets 83,730 117,020
Financial liabilities:
Financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables 24,938 29,607
Bank borrowings (non-current) 401,599 347,253 
Obligations under a finance lease (non-current) – 39,577 
Bank borrowings (current) 22,021 17,863
Obligations under a finance lease (current) 40,084 55,026
Total financial liabilities 488,642 489,326
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern while maximising the return on equity. The Group does  
not have a formalised optimal target capital structure or target ratios in connection with its capital risk management objectives. The Group’s 
overall strategy in this regard remains unchanged throughout the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments – credit risk, liquidity risk, cash flow, interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 101 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group, and  
arises principally from the Group’s trade and other receivables and bank balances. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with 
creditworthy counterparties which have been determined based on credit checks and other financial analysis, such that significant revenue 
is generated by dealing with high profile well known customers, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Group attempts to 
control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, limiting transactions with specific non-related counterparties, and continually assessing 
the creditworthiness of such non-related counterparties. Cash balances held with banks are assessed to have low credit risk of default since 
these banks are highly regulated by the central banks of the respective countries. 
Concentration of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographic region, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected 
by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentration of credit risk indicates the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance 
to developments affecting a particular industry or geographic location. During the year, vessels were chartered to five Middle East and five 
international oil companies. At 31 December 2016, these ten companies accounted for 99% (2015: 96%) of the outstanding trade receivables. 
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international agencies.
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event 
counterparties failing to perform their obligations generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables and balances 
with banks are not secured by any collateral.
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated in UAE Dirhams, Euros, US Dollars and Pound Sterling. As the UAE Dirham and 
the Saudi Riyal is pegged to the US Dollar, balances in UAE Dirham and Saudi Riyals are not considered to represent significant currency risk. 
Transactions in other foreign currencies entered into by the Group are short-term in nature and therefore management considers that the 
currency risk associated with these transactions is limited and consequently this risk is typically not hedged, other than in relation to 
significant foreign currency capital expenditure programmes. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
Liabilities 31 December Assets 31 December
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
UAE Dirhams 1,413 2,378 12,644 48,899
Saudi Riyals 39 24 160 2,409
Pound Sterling 95 292 7,602 11,006
Euro 29 331 11,925 2,244
Singapore Dollar – – – 5
Norwegian Krone – 20 – –
Others 5 19 – –
1,581 3,064 32,331 64,563
At 31 December 2016, if the exchange rate of the currencies other than the UAE Dirham and Saudi Riyal had increased/decreased  
by 10% against the US Dollar, with all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit for the period would have been lower/higher  
by US$ 1.9 million (2015: lower/higher by US$ 1.3 million) mainly as a result of foreign exchange loss or gain on translation of Euro and  
Pound Sterling denominated balances.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on its bank borrowings which are subject to floating interest rates. 
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the end  
of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the 
reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk 
internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates. 
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 
31 December 2016 would decrease/increase by US$ 2.1 million (2015: decrease/increase US$: 1.8 million). This is mainly attributable to the 
Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.  102 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
3 4  F inancial instr uments continued
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk 
management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. The contractual maturities of the Group’s financial 
liabilities have been determined on the basis of the remaining period at the end of the reporting period to the contractual maturity date.  
The maturity profile is monitored by management to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained. The maturity profile of the assets and 
liabilities at the end of the reporting period based on contractual repayment arrangements was as follows:
Interest rate
1-3 months
US$
4-12 months
US$
2-5 years
US$
After 
5 years
US$
31 December 2016
Non-interest bearing financial assets 71,372 687 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 3.5–3.8% 11,671 – – –
83,043 687 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 24,938 – – –
Interest bearing financial liabilities 3.8–12% 6,327 55,778 401,599 –
31,265 55,778 401,599 –
31 December 2015
Non-interest bearing financial assets 80,330 768 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 4% 35,922 – – –
116,252 768 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 29,607 – – –
Interest bearing financial liabilities 3–14.7% 5,409 67,480 221,777 165,053
35,016 67,480 221,777 165,053
Management believe that the difference between fair value and carrying value is negligible.
35  Long term incentive plans
The Group has Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs), performance shares and share options which were granted to senior management, 
managers and senior offshore officers. The details of the senior management LTIPs are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 47 to 59. The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment, certain market vesting conditions and in the case 
of senior management LTIP awards; performance against three-year target EPS compound annual growth rates. Equity-settled share-
based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined, using the Binomial Probability Model together 
with Monte Carlo simulations, at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest. The fair value of each award is determined by taking 
into account the market performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the 
underlying share and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award. 
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, 
and in the case of the senior management LTIP awards the achievement of EPS growth targets, are taken into account by adjusting the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the 
vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the 
options granted.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Group’s subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised 
as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
The number of share awards made by the Group during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average exercise  
price (‘WAEP’).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 103 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Scheme
2016 2015
No. WAEP No. WAEP
At beginning of the year 3,679,453 – 1,621,892 –
Granted in the year 5,014,231 – 2,652,024 –
Forfeited in the year (1,442,316) – (594,463) –
At end of the year 7,251,368 – 3,679,453 –
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Outlined below is a summary of the assumptions which have been used to determine the fair value of the share awards:
LTIP LTIP
Grant date 23 March 2016 25 March 2015
Share price £0.71 £1.31 
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00
Expected volatility 40% 34% 
Risk-free rate 0.84% 1.008% 
Expected dividend yield 3.3% 1.5% 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Award life 3 years 3 years
Market performance condition 36.0% 37.9%
The expected Gulf Marine Services PLC share price volatility was determined taking into account the average of the volatility of two 
comparable companies at each of the grant dates.
 
The risk free return was determined from similarly dated zero coupon UK government bonds at the time the share awards were granted, 
using historical information taken from the Bank of England’s records.
The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 15.
36  Dividends
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Dividends declared and paid during the year
Final Dividend for 2014: 1.06 pence per share – 5,624
Interim Dividend for 2015: 0.41 pence per share – 2,207
Final Dividend for 2015: 1.20 pence per share 6,123 –
Interim Dividend for 2016: 0.41 pence per share 1,887 –
8,010 7,831
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM. 
These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend.
37  Events after the reporting period
There have been no events subsequent to 31 December 2016 for disclosure, other than the final dividend disclosed in note 36.  104 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
Notes
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
ASSETS
Fixed assets
Investments 5 573,546 573,546
Total non-current assets 573,546 573,546
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6 1,826 736
Cash and cash equivalents 553 8,996
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 7 (4,205) (1,139)
Total current (liabilities)/assets (1,826) 8,593
Net assets 571,720 582,139
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital 8 57,929 57,929
Share premium 8 93,075 93,075
Restricted reserve 8 1,702 1,409
Retained earnings 419,014 429,726
Shareholders’ funds 571,720 582,139
The Company reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 of US$ 2.7 million (2015: US$ 2.3 million).
The financial statements of Gulf Marine Services PLC (registered number 08860816) were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 27 March 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
  
Duncan Anderson    John Brown 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
as at 31 December 2016 105 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Called-up 
share 
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium 
account
US$’000
Share option 
reserve
US$’000
Profit and 
loss account
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2015 57,929 93,247 563 439,900 591,639
Share issue costs – (172) – – (172)
Share options rights charge – – 846 – 846
Loss for the period – – – (2,343) (2,343)
Dividends declared – – – (7,831) (7,831)
Balance at 1 January 2016 57,929 93,075 1,409 429,726 582,139
Share options rights charge – – 293 – 293
Loss for the period – – – (2,702) (2,702)
Dividends declared – – – (8,010) (8,010)
Balance at 31 December 2016 57,929 93,075 1,702 419,014 571,720
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2016 106 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
Notes
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Net cash flow used in operating activities 10 (1,797) (1,388)
Cash flows from financing activities
Transaction costs from issue of ordinary shares – (172)
(Increase)/Decrease in intercompany receivables (1,079) 986
Increase in intercompany payables 2,443 782
Dividends paid (8,010) (7,831)
Net cash used in financing activities (6,646) (6,235)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (8,443) (7,623)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 8,996 16,619
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 553 8,996
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 December 2016 107 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
1 Corporate information 
Gulf Marine Services PLC is a private limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. On 7 February 2014,  
the Company re-registered as a public limited company. The address of the registered office of the Company is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, 
London EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The Company is the parent company of the Gulf Marine Services Group comprising of Gulf Marine Services PLC and its underlying 
subsidiaries. The consolidated group accounts are publicly available. 
These separate financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC  
(“the Company”) on 27 March 2017.
2 Accounting policies
Currency 
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is United States Dollars. 
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position, are set out in the  
Directors’ Report and Strategic Report.
The Company participates in the Group’s centralised treasury arrangements and so shares banking arrangements with its 
underlying subsidiaries.
After making enquiries and on the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, the Company’s Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they have 
adopted the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. 
Basis of accounting 
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared  
under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 
(FRS 102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) to not present the Company 
Income Statement nor the Company Statement of Comprehensive Income. The result for the Company for the year was a loss of  
US$ 2.7 million (2015: loss of US$ 2.3 million). 
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are recognised at deemed cost, which is the previous GAAP carrying value  
at the transition date, less impairment.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) or “other financial liabilities”.
Trade and other payables, loans from related parties and other liabilities are classified as “other financial liabilities”. Other financial liabilities, 
are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using  
the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis, except for short-term payables or when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over  
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life 
of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 108 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
2 Accounting policies
Financial instruments continued
Financial assets
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. They are initially measured at fair 
value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit and loss account, which are 
initially measured at fair value. 
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-
maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and 
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as ‘loans and 
receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest 
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate method, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest 
would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective 
evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash 
flows of the investment have been affected.
Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form an integral part of the 
Company’s cash management and are included as a component of cash at bank and in hand for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK Corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at  
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s 
taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessment 
periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing 
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are 
expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the 
gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments
The fair value of an equity instrument is determined at the grant date based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms  
and conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted. If market prices are not available for share awards, the fair value of the 
equity instruments is estimated using a valuation technique to derive an estimate of what the price of those equity instruments would have 
been at the relevant measurement date in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the instruments, using a binomial model together with 
Monte Carlo simulations as at the grant date, and is expensed over the vesting period. The value of the expense is dependent upon certain 
key assumptions including the expected future volatility of the Group’s share price at the date of grant. The fair value measurement reflects 
all market-based vesting conditions. Service and non-market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the number  
of rights that are expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 109 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.  
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimations which management have made in the process of applying the 
Company’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Impairment of accounts receivable
An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. For 
individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts which are not individually significant, but which 
are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision is applied according to the length of time past due and based on historical recovery 
rates. Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected to be impaired will be recognised 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Critical accounting judgements 
Recoverability of investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet of the Company at deemed cost less any provision for impairment. 
The Company performs impairment reviews in respect of fixed asset investments whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is  
the higher of the asset’s net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount. 
4 Dividend on equity shares
Dividends declared and paid during the year
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Final Dividend for 2014: 1.06 pence per share – 5,624
Interim Dividend for 2015: 0.41 pence per share – 2,207
Final Dividend for 2015: 1.20 pence per share 6,123 –
Interim Dividend for 2016: 0.41 pence per share 1,887 –
8,010 7,831
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM. 
These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend.
5 Fixed asset investments
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Opening balance 573,546 517,546
Other non-cash investment – 56,000
573,546 573,546
As part of a Group restructuring in 2015, GMS Jersey Holdco 2 Limited issued two shares to the Company in exchange for the assignment  
of an outstanding intercompany receivable balance due from Gulf Marine Services WLL of US$ 56.0 million. No cash was exchanged during 
the course of this transaction. 110 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016
The Company has investments in the following subsidiaries. 
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name
Place of  
registration
Registered  
Address 2016 2015 Type of activity
Gulf Marine Services W.L.L. Abu Dhabi MN1 Mussafah Base, Mussafah 
Industrial Area Abu Dhabi, P.O. Box 
46046 United Arab Emirates 
100% 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt. SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Khawla 
181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Helios” 
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of “Atlas” 
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kawawa” 
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Kudeta” 
GMS Endurance Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Endurance”
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands Ugland House, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1104, Cayman Islands, P.O. Box 309
100% 100% General investment 
and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom c/o MacKinnon’s, 14 Carden Place, 
Aberdeen, AB10 1UR 
100% 100% Operator of offshore 
barges
Gulf Marine Saudi Arabia Co. Limited Saudi Arabia P. O. Box 257, Dammam 31411 Saudi 
Arabia 
75% 75% Operator of offshore 
barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 1 Scotts Road, #21-07, Shaw Centre, 
Singapore, 228208 
100% 100% Operator of offshore 
barges
GMS Enterprise Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Enterprise”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Scirocco” 111 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Proportion of 
ownership interest
Name
Place of  
registration
Registered  
Address 2016 2015 Type of activity
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Shamal”
GMS Jersey Holdco. 1 Limited
+
Jersey 43/45 La Motte Street, St Helier, 
Jersey, JE4 8SD 
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Jersey Holdco. 2 Limited Jersey 43/45 La Motte Street, St Helier, 
Jersey, JE4 8SD 
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Marine Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates ELOB, Office No. E-16F-04, P.O. Box 
53944, Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah 
100% 100% Operator of 
Offshore Barges
GMS Global Commercial Invt LLC United Arab Emirates Al Mariah Island, Al Sowwa Square, 
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
100% 100% General Investment
GMS Keloa Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% 100% Owner of Barge 
“Keloa”
GMS Pepper Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama 
100% – Owner of Barge 
“Pepper”
GMS Evolution Invt SA Panama Salduba Building, 53rd East Street, 
Urbanización Marbella Panama City, 
Republic of Panama
100% – Owner of Barge 
“Evolution”
+ Held directly by Gulf Marine Services PLC.
6 Debtors amount falling due within one year
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,803 724
Other receivables 23 12
1,826 736
7 Creditors amount falling due within one year
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3,392 949
Other creditors 813 190
4,205 1,139
8 Called up share capital and reserves
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 349,527,804 shares of 10 pence each 57,929 57,929
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The share premium reserve contains the premium arising on issue of equity shares, net of related costs.
The Company’s share option reserve for the period of US$ 1.70 million (2015: US$ 1.41 million) relates to awards granted to employees  
of a subsidiary undertaking under a long-term incentive plan, details of which are provided in note 12.
The profit and loss account represents cumulative profits or losses net of dividends paid and other adjustments.
Number  
of shares
Ordinary 
shares
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
Balance as at 31 December 2016 349,527,804 57,929 93,075 151,004 112 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements
9 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing related party transactions with other wholly owned Group companies 
as provided by paragraph 33.1A of FRS 102. The Company and all companies with whom related party transactions took place in the period 
are wholly owned Group companies, the consolidated accounts of which are publicly available.
Remuneration of key management personnel during the year comprised short-term benefits of US$ 733,389 (2015: US$ 920,190).
10  Cash flow statement
2016
US$’000
2015
US$’000
Operating loss (2,702) (2,343)
Adjustment for:
Share-based payment expense 293 846
Operating cash outflow before movement of working capital (2,409) (1,497)
(Increase)/Decrease in other receivables (11) 28
Increase in other payables 623 81
Net cash outflow from operating activities (1,797) (1,388)
11  Long term incentive plans
The Group has Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs), performance shares and share options which were granted to senior management, 
managers and senior offshore officers. The details of the senior management LTIPs are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 47 to 59. The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment, certain market vesting conditions and in the case 
of senior management LTIP awards; performance against three-year target EPS compound annual growth rates. Equity-settled share-
based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined, using the Binomial Probability Model together 
with Monte Carlo simulations, at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest. The fair value of each award is determined by taking 
into account the market performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the 
underlying share and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award. 
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, 
and in the case of the senior management LTIP awards the achievement of EPS growth targets, are taken into account by adjusting the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the 
vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the 
options granted.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Group’s subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised 
as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
The number of share awards made by the Group during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average exercise 
price (‘WAEP’).
2016 2015
No. WAEP No. WAEP
At beginning of the year 3,679,453 – 1,621,892 –
Granted in the year 5,014,231 – 2,652,024 –
Forfeited in the year (1,442,316) – (594,463) –
At end of the year 7,251,368 – 3,679,453 –
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Outlined below is a summary of the assumptions which have been used to determine the fair value of the share awards:
LTIP LTIP
Grant date 23 March 2016 25 March 2015
Share price £0.71 £1.31 
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00
Expected volatility 40% 34% 
Risk-free rate 0.84% 1.008% 
Expected dividend yield 3.3% 1.5% 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Award life 3 years 3 years
Market performance condition 36.0% 37.9%
The expected Gulf Marine Services PLC share price volatility was determined taking into account the average of the volatility of two 
comparable companies at each of the grant dates.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 December 2016 113 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The risk free return was determined from similarly dated zero coupon UK government bonds at the time the share awards were granted, 
using historical information taken from the Bank of England’s records.
The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 8.
12  Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders.
 
The capital structure of the Company consists of cash and short-term deposits and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and loss for the period as disclosed in note 8. 
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the 
accounting policies to the financial statements (see note 2).
Categories of financial instruments
2016
US$’000
2015 
US$’000
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand 553 8,996
Loans and receivables 1,826 736
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost 4,205 1,140
All financial liabilities are repayable upon demand. 
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments – credit risk, cash flow and liquidity risk, foreign currency  
risk and interest rate risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Company.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company, and 
arises principally from the Company’s trade and other receivables. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy 
counterparties, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Company attempts to control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, 
limiting transactions with specific non-related counter-parties, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of such non-related counter-
parties. Balances with banks are assessed to have low credit risk of default since these banks are highly regulated by the central banks  
of the respective countries. 
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event counter 
parties failing to perform their obligations generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables are not secured by 
any collateral.
The Company’s principal financial assets are bank balances, and intercompany and other receivables. The Company’s main credit risk is 
primarily attributable to its key intercompany receivables. The Company has no other significant concentration of credit risk. An allowance 
for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence for a reduction in the 
recoverability of the cash flows.
Cash flow and liquidity risk
The Company is not exposed to any significant cash flow or liquidity risk. The Company currently has sufficient cash to fund its activities. 
However, in the event that additional liquidity is required for ongoing operations and future developments, the Company has access to 
additional funding from other Group entities which it controls. 
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Company’s transactions are in either UAE Dirhams or US Dollars. Transactions in other foreign currencies entered into 
by the Company are short-term in nature and therefore management considers that the currency risk associated with these transactions  
is limited and consequently this risk is not hedged.
Interest rate risk management
The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities are interest-free; accordingly the Company is not subject to any interest rate risk.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Company’s management considers that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts. 114 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
Notice of AGM 116
Glossary 122
Corporate Information IBC
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMA TION 115 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 116 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
NOTICE OF AGM
Important information: This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any doubt as to any aspect 
of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, 
solicitor, accountant, or other independent professional adviser immediately. If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your 
shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person  
who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares. 
GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC
(INCORPORATED AND REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES UNDER NUMBER 08860816)
NOTICE OF AGM
Notice is hereby given that the third annual general meeting (the “AGM”) of Gulf Marine Services PLC (the “Company”) will be held on  
16 May 2017 at 11.30am (UK time) at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom to transact the business set  
out in the resolutions below. 
Resolutions 1 to 11 (inclusive) will be proposed as ordinary resolutions; this means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more  
than half of the votes cast must be in favour. Resolutions 12 to 14 (inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions; this means that for  
each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of a poll. The Company believes this will result in a more accurate reflection of the views of 
shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of all shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting  
but who have appointed a proxy for the meeting. Shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held when voting on a poll.
Ordinary Resolutions
Report and Accounts
1.  To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 together with the Directors’ reports and the 
auditor’s report on those accounts (the “2016 Annual Report and Accounts”). 
Final dividend
2.  To declare a final dividend of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2016, to be paid to ordinary 
shareholders on the register of members at 6.00pm (UK time) on 18 April 2017.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
3.  To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 47 to 59 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts (excluding the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy). 
Re-election of Directors
4. To re-elect Simon Heale as a director.
5. To re-elect Duncan Anderson as a director.
6. To re-elect Simon Batey as a director.
7. To re-elect Richard Anderson as a director. 
8. To re-elect Dr Karim El Solh as a director.
Re-appointment of Auditor
9.   To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the  
next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Auditor’s Remuneration
10. To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf of the board of directors.
Authority to allot ordinary shares
 11. T o authorise the directors generally and unconditionally, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), to exercise all 
the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares of the Company: 
 (a) up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £11,650,927; and 
 (b)  comprising equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) of the Act) of the Company up to a further aggregate nominal amount  
of £11,650,927 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue. 
 These authorities shall apply in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to section 551 of the Act and expire on the date of the 
next AGM or on 30 June 2018, whichever is the earlier, but in each case the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement 
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities under any 
such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
 For the purposes of this resolution, “rights issue” means an offer to: 
• holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings; and
• holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary,  
 
but subject in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient in relation 
to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange. 117 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Special Resolutions
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights
12. That, subject to the passing of resolution 11, the directors be empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities (as 
defined in section 560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above and/or to sell shares held by the 
Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power 
shall be limited to:
(a) the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (b) of this resolution) to any 
person up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,747,639; 
(b) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities (but, in the case of the authority granted under 
paragraph (b) of resolution 11, by way of a rights issue only):
i. to the holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary,
 but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient in relation to treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of  
any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
 The authorities conferred by this resolution shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or on 30 June 2018, whichever is 
the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement that would or might require equity securities to 
be allotted (or treasury shares to be sold) after the authority expires and the directors may allot equity securities (or sell treasury 
shares) in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
 For the purposes of this resolution:
• “rights issue” has the same meaning as in resolution 11; and
• the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, shares 
of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
Purchase of own shares
13. To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally to make market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act)  
of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased is 34,952,780;
(b) the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence; and
(c) the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of:
i. 105% of the average closing price of an ordinary share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the  
five business days prior to the day the purchase is made; and 
ii. the value of an ordinary share calculated on the basis of the higher of the price quoted for:
 (a) the last independent trade of; and
 (b) the highest current independent bid for 
any number of the Company’s ordinary shares. 
 This authority shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or on 30 June 2018, whichever is the earlier, save that the 
Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly  
after the expiry of such authority. 
Notice of general meetings, other than AGMs
14. That a general meeting, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
John Brown 
Company Secretary
27 March 2017
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH 118 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
NOTICE OF AGM CONTINUED
EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS 
Resolution 1 – T o receive the Report and Accounts
The directors are required to present the Company’s audited accounts, directors’ reports and auditor’s report to the AGM. These are 
contained in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 2 – T o declare a final dividend
The board of directors of the Company (the “Board”) proposes a final dividend of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share for the year ended 
31 December 2016. If approved, the recommended final dividend will be paid on 19 May 2017 to all ordinary shareholders on the register  
of members at 6.00pm (UK time) on 18 April 2017. The shares will be marked ex-dividend on 13 April 2017.
Resolution 3 – T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
This resolution deals with the remuneration paid to the directors during the year under review. Shareholders are invited to vote on the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, which appears on pages 47 to 59 in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts (excluding the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy). Resolution 3 is an advisory vote.
The Company does not intend at this AGM to move a resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which appears on pages  
48 to 53 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the first AGM of  
the Company held on 6 May 2015. The Company will comply with its legal obligation to prepare and submit for shareholder vote a Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy no less frequently than every three years. 
Resolutions 4 to 8 – Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and consistent with relevant institutional voting guidance, all current directors of the 
Company will seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM. Mike Straughen and Richard Dallas resigned as directors of the Company 
effective from 1 January 2017. 
No independent non-executive director seeking re-election at the AGM has any existing or previous relationship with the Company, nor with 
any controlling shareholder of the Company or any associate of a controlling shareholder of the Company within the meaning of Listing Rule 
13.8.17R(1). In considering the independence of the non-executive directors, the Board has taken into account the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board continues to consider Simon Batey and Richard Anderson to be independent non-executive directors in accordance with 
provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
In accordance with the Listing Rules, Dr Karim El Solh is classed as a representative of a “controlling shareholder” of Gulf Marine Services 
PLC and is not considered to be an independent non-executive director. The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement with its 
“controlling shareholders” effective 14 March 2014 in accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.2AR(2)(a), which serves to ensure that the controlling 
shareholders and their representatives (including Dr Karim El Solh) comply with the independence provisions outlined in Listing Rule 6.1.4DR. 
The Listing Rules also require that independent non-executive directors be elected by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders 
in addition to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders in the Company. Therefore, the resolutions for the election of the independent 
non-executive directors (resolutions 6 and 7) will be taken on a poll and the votes cast by independent shareholders and all shareholders  
will be calculated separately. Such resolutions will be passed only if a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders are in favour,  
in addition to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders being in favour.
Full biographies of all the directors are set out in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and are also available for viewing on the Company’s 
website (http://www.gmsuae.com). Following a formal Board evaluation process and recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the 
Board is satisfied that each director seeking re-election at the AGM continues to be effective and demonstrates a commitment to the role 
and that each such director continues to be able to dedicate sufficient time to their duties. The Board believes that its composition continues 
to include an appropriate balance of skills and provides effective leadership for the Company. 
It is intended that Christopher Foll, currently an alternate director for Dr Karim El Solh, will continue that appointment beyond the AGM 
without seeking re-election by shareholders. If the resolution to re-elect Dr Karim El Solh is not passed by shareholders at the AGM, the 
alternate directorship will immediately cease. 
Resolution 9 – T o re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which 
accounts are laid before the Company
At each meeting at which the Company’s accounts are presented to its members, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve 
until the next such meeting. The Board, on the recommendation of its Audit and Risk Committee, recommends the re-appointment of 
Deloitte LLP as auditor.
Resolution 10 – T o authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP
This resolution gives authority to the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
Resolution 11 – T o authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares
The authority in paragraph (a) of this resolution, if passed, would provide the directors with a general authority to allot new shares and 
grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal amount of £11,650,927, which is equal to approximately 
33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice. 
Paragraph (b) of resolution 11 will grant the directors additional authority to allot 116,509,268 new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, 
or convert other securities into, shares in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal amount of, which is equal to approximately 
33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice.  119 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
When taken together, the authorities proposed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this resolution extend (before any reduction) to approximately 
two thirds of the current issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before the publication of 
this Notice. 
The resolution, if passed, would give the Board the maximum flexibility permitted by investor guidelines to respond to market developments. 
The Board has no current intention to allot shares except in connection with the Company’s employee share schemes but the Board will 
keep the matter under review.
The authorities conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of 30 June 2018 and the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is  
the intention of the directors to seek to renew these authorities every year.
Resolution 12 – T o authorise the directors to disapply pre-emption rights
This resolution would, if passed, authorise the directors to allot shares or sell treasury shares for cash (other than in connection with  
an employee share scheme), without having to offer such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their own holdings (known  
as pre-emption rights):
(a) up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,747,639, which represents approximately 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital 
(excluding treasury shares) as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice; and
(b) in relation to pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those securities or as the 
directors otherwise consider necessary, up to a maximum nominal amount of £11,650,927, which represents approximately one third  
of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable  
date before publication of this Notice, and, in relation to rights issues only, up to a maximum additional amount of £11,650,927, which 
represents approximately a further one third, of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at  
27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
 
Resolution 12 is consistent with guidance issued by the Investment Association (as updated in July 2016), the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement 
of Principles (as updated in March 2015) (the “Statement of Principles”) and the template resolutions published by the Pre-Emption Group in 
May 2016. The directors confirm that, in accordance with the Statement of Principles, they do not intend to issue shares for cash representing 
more than 7.5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital in any rolling three-year period other than to existing shareholders, save as 
permitted in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as described above, unless shareholder have been notified and 
consulted in advance.
The authorities conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of 30 June 2018 and the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is  
the intention of the directors to seek to renew these authorities every year.
Resolution 13 – T o authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares
This resolution would, if passed, authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 34,952,780 of its own ordinary shares, 
representing just under 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before publication  
of this Notice. The resolution specifies the minimum and maximum prices at which the ordinary shares may be bought under this authority. 
This authority conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of 30 June 2018 and the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the 
intention of the directors to seek to renew this authority every year.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority granted by this resolution, but the authority provides the flexibility to 
allow them to do so in future. The directors would not exercise the authority unless they believed that the expected effect would promote 
the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole. Any shares purchased would be effected by a purchase in the 
market and may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the Company’s 
obligations under its employee share schemes. The Company currently has no shares held in treasury.
As at 27 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, the total number of options to subscribe for shares  
in the Company was 7,251,368 (approximately 2.1% of the Company’s issued share capital and approximately 2.3% of the Company’s issued 
share capital if the full authority proposed by resolution 13 was used and the shares purchased were cancelled).
Resolution 14 – Notice of general meetings, other than AGMs
Under the Act, the notice period required for all general meetings of the Company is 21 days. An AGM is required by law to be held on at  
least 21 clear days’ notice but shareholders can approve a shorter notice period for other general meetings.
This resolution would, if passed, allow the Company flexibility to call general meetings, other than AGMs, on not less than 14 clear  
days’ notice. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.  
A resolution in identical terms was passed at the previous AGM of the Company, held on 11 May 2016. 
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole 
and unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them. 120 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
NOTICE OF AGM CONTINUED
IMPORTANT NOTES
The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM or to appoint someone else 
to vote on your behalf.
1. To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they 
may cast), shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.30pm (UK time) on 14 May 2017 (or, in  
the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm (UK time) on the date which is 48 hours, before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to 
the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at 
the AGM. There are no other procedures or requirements for entitled shareholders to comply with in order to attend and vote at the 
AGM. In alignment with best practice for UK listed companies, it is the current intention that each of the resolutions to be put to the AGM 
will be voted on by way of a poll and not by show of hands. The Company believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders’ 
voting intentions because shareholder votes are counted according to the number of ordinary shares held and all votes tendered are 
taken into account. 
2. The doors will open at 10.30am (UK time) and you are recommended to arrive by 11.00am (UK time) to enable you to register and take 
your seat in good time. Light refreshments will be provided at the AGM. If you have any special needs or require wheelchair access to the 
offices of Linklaters LLP please contact Leanne Shergold by e-mail on lshergold@brunswickgroup.com or telephone +44 (0) 20 7396 7480 
in advance of the AGM. Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras and recording equipment are not allowed in the 
meeting hall.
3. Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or part of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM. 
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attached to a different ordinary share or ordinary shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.  
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice. If you do not have  
a form of proxy and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Company’s registrar Equiniti 
(the “Registrar”), on 0371 384 2030 (or from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7047). Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm (UK time) Monday 
to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
4. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the 
most senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company’s 
register of members in respect of the joint holding (the first named being the most senior).
5. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to enjoy 
information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was 
nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a Nominated Person has no such 
proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the 
shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
6. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3, 4 and 9 do not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
7. Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the Act have the right to (a) require the Company to give notice of any 
resolution which can properly be, and is to be, moved at the AGM pursuant to section 338 of the Act; and/or (b) include a matter in the 
business to be dealt with at the AGM, pursuant to section 338A of the Act.
8. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution. 
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from 
voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the AGM.
9. To be valid, any form of proxy or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by the Registrar by post or (during normal 
business hours only) by hand at the address shown on the form of proxy or, in the case of shares held through CREST, via the CREST 
system (see note 12 below). For proxy appointments to be valid, they must be received by no later than 11.30am (UK time) on 14 May 
2017. If you return more than one proxy appointment, the proxy appointment received last by the Registrar before the latest time for  
the receipt of proxies will take precedence. You are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully. Electronic communication 
facilities are open to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
10. The return of a completed form of proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in note 12 below) will not prevent a shareholder 
attending the AGM and voting in person if he or she wishes to do so.
11. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
AGM (and any adjournment of the AGM) by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available from www.euroclear.com). 
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), 
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 121 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
12. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must contain the 
information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as to be received  
by the issuers’ agent (ID RA19) by 11.30am (UK time) on 14 May 2017. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to the time  
(as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST application host) from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve 
the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
13. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, 
therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or,  
if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that 
his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by 
means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of 
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
14. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers 
as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers relation to the same shares.
15. As at 27 March 2017 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice), the Company’s ordinary issued share capital 
consists of 349,527,804 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, the total voting  
rights in the Company as at 27 March 2017 are 349,527,804.
16. Under section 527 of the Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the 
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the 
auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or (ii) any circumstances connected with an auditor  
of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 
section 437 of the Act. The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in 
complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of  
the Act, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the 
website. The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 
527 of the Act to publish on a website.
17. Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating 
to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation 
for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an 
answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be 
answered.
18. The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any 
business day from 27 March 2017 until the time of the AGM and may also be inspected at the AGM venue (Linklaters LLP, One Silk  
Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ), from 10.30am (UK time) on the day of the AGM until the conclusion of the meeting:
a. copies of the directors’ letters of appointment or service contracts;
b. a copy of the articles of association of the Company; and
c. a copy of the directors’ deeds of indemnity.
19. You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice or any related documents (including the form of proxy)  
to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Company’s website at  
http://www.gmsuae.com. 122 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
GLOSSARY
ABS American Bureau of Shipping.
ADNOC Abu Dhabi National Oil Company.
AED United Arab Emirates Dirham. The currency in United Arab Emirates.
Available days Calculated from a base of 365 days from which any unpaid days spent on mobilisation and 
demobilisation, planned refurbishment or upgrade work and, in the case of a newly constructed SESV, 
delivery time are subtracted. Maintenance days included in our contracts are counted as available days.
Average daily vessel  
operating costs
Average daily vessel operating costs incurred to operate a vessel. Calculated as cost of sales less 
non-cash items, depreciation, amortisation and impairments divided by 365.
Brownfield project A project involving the upgrade or modification of existing operations.
Capex-led activities Defined in the oil and gas sector to include greenfield projects, engineering, procurement and 
construction activities, installation and decommissioning and, with respect to EOR activities, water 
injection and gas injection. Typically funded out of our clients’ capital expenditure budgets.
Company (or Group) website www.gmsuae.com
Day rate Income received by the Company in respect of each day a vessel is chartered to a client.
DP2 Dynamic positioning system with full redundancy meaning that should one component fail there is  
a backup component that takes over.
Dynamic positioning A computerised positioning system which maintains the vessel position by using its own propellers  
and thrusters.
EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery. Consists of the injection of foreign components (e.g. chemicals) to recover  
a larger proportion of the remaining oil at the final stages of the field life.
GCC Gulf Cooperation Council, the political and economic alliance of six Middle Eastern countries comprising 
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman.
Hotel services Income received by the Company for the provision of accommodation and meals provided to client 
personnel charged on a per person per day basis.
HSE Health, Safety and Environment.
HSSEQ Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality.
Lump sum Income received by the Company at the beginning of a new charter party agreement relating to the 
costs and time taken to prepare the vessel.
LTIR Lost Time Injury Rate is calculated on the lost time injury rate per 200,000 man hours which is a 
measure of the frequency of injuries requiring employee absence from work in the year for a period  
of one or more days.
MENA Middle East and North Africa.
Opex-led activities Operating expenditure-led activities. Defined in the oil and gas sector to include fabric maintenance,  
well intervention, brownfield upgrade and modification projects and retrofit or upgrade activities with 
respect to EOR activities. Typically funded out of our clients’ operating budgets.
SESV Self-Elevated Support Vessel designed to cater to a range of offshore assets and equipment such as 
drilling products and to support inspection, maintenance, repair, diving and construction activities.
Smaller company The UK Corporate Governance Code defines a smaller company as one that is below the FTSE 350 
throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting year.
Topside operations 
and maintenance
Consists of the maintenance, modification and operation of platforms during the production phase  
of the offshore field lifecycle.
TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate is calculated on the injury rate per 200,000 man hours and includes all our 
onshore and offshore personnel and subcontracted personnel. Offshore personnel are monitored over 
a 24-hour period.
Utilisation The percentage of available days in a relevant period during which an SESV is under contract and  
in respect of which a customer is paying a day rate for the charter of the SESV.
Utilisation rate Actual number of days a vessel is on hire divided by the number of available days in a year.
Well intervention Consists of services (coiled turbine, pumping, workover, subsea landing string and other services)  
to maintain production levels in the primary and secondary phases of oil production. 123 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Alternative performance measures 
(APMs)
An alternative performance measure is a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, 
financial position, or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in the applicable 
financial reporting framework.
Alternative performance measures are non-GAAP measures that are presented to provide readers  
with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management and the Directors 
consider that they provide a useful indicator of underlying performance. However, this additional 
information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies including those in the Group’s  
industry. Accordingly, it may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by  
other companies. Additionally, certain information presented is derived from amounts calculated in 
accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure. Such measures should  
not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share – represents the adjusted profit attributable to equity holders  
of the Company for the period divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the period, adjusted for the weighted average effect of share options outstanding during the 
period. The adjusted profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company is earnings used for  
the purpose of basic earnings per share adjusted by adding back the impairment charge mainly on 
non-core vessels which has been charged to the income statement in the period. 
EBITDA – represents Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation, which represents 
operating profit after adding back depreciation, amortisation and non-operational impairment charge.
Adjusted EBITDA – represents operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation, and 
non-operational impairment charges in 2016.
Adjusted EBITDA margin – represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue.
Adjusted gross profit – represents gross profit after adding back depreciation, amortisation and 
non-operational impairment charges in 2016. 
Adjusted net profit – represents net profit after adding back non-operational impairment charges in 
2016 and non-operational refinancing costs in 2015. 
Backlog – represents firm contracts and extension options held by clients. Backlog equals (charter  
day rate x remaining days contracted) + ((estimated average Persons On Board x daily messing rate))  
x remaining days contracted) + contracted remaining unbilled mobilisation and demobilisation fees. 
Includes extension options.
Net debt – represents the total bank borrowings less cash.
Net leverage ratio – represents the ratio of net debt (bank borrowings less cash) to adjusted EBITDA. 124 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Additional Information
NOTES GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC  Annual Report 2016
Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
T: +971 (2) 5028888
F: +971 (2) 5553421
E: IR@gmsuae.com
www.gmsuae.com T: +971 (0)56 150 8292
This publication was printed with vegetable 
oil-based inks by an FSC -recognised printer 
that holds an ISO 14001 certification.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Joint Corporate Broker
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Joint Corporate Broker
Barclays 
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB
Legal Advisers
Linklaters LLP 
One Silk Street 
London EC2Y 8HQ
Auditors
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
Public Relations Advisers
Brunswick Group LLP
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
London WC2A 3ED
Registrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registered Office
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor 
40 Dukes Place 
London EC3A 7NH 
Head Office
Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
T: +971 (2) 5028888
F: +971 (2) 5553421
E: IR@gmsuae.com 
Board of Directors
Simon Heale
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
Simon Batey
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Richard Anderson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr Karim El Solh
Non-Executive Director
