 H&T Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
PAWNBROKING CHEQUE CASHING PAY DAY ADVANCE KWIKLOAN JEWELLERY PREPAID DEBIT CARD
The UK
’
s leading pawnbroker December
2007: 
H&T operates
from 89 stores
Introduction to H&T
H&T provides a range of simple and accessible
financial products tailored for a customer base
who have limited access to, or are excluded
from, the traditional banking and finance sector.
Timeline
100
50
As at 31 December 2007 H&T was
the largest pawnbroking business in
the UK in terms of the size of the
pledge book.  As a business H&T
has existed in some form since the
late 1800’s and over the years has
built or acquired some of the oldest
and largest pawnbrokers in the UK.
Indeed the store in Edinburgh has
operated from the same building for
over 150 years serving the same
community.
More recently H&T has accelerated
its development by adding new
products and services and
expanding the store network.  
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on 
the Alternative Investment Market
(“AIM”) providing the group with
access to new sources of finance
and allowing the provision of equity
based incentivisation to employees.
H&T operates in a fast moving,
competitive environment and will
continue to succeed by focussing
on customer needs, the development
and retention of staff and the
ongoing development of existing
and new products together with
expansion in locations.  
01 Highlights
02 The Business at a glance
03 Chairman’s Statement
04 What is Pawnbroking?
05 Valuations, how H&T manage the process
06 Our Customers
08 Chief Executive’s Review of the Business
14 Finance Director’s Review
15 Our People
16 Directors, Officers and Advisers
17 Corporate Governance
19 Directors' report
23 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
24 Independent auditors’ report on the
Group financial statements to the
members of H&T Group plc
25 Consolidated income statement
26 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
27 Consolidated balance sheet
28 Consolidated cash flow statement
29 Notes to the consolidated financial
statements
82 Independent auditors’ report to the
members of H&T Group plc
83 Company balance sheet
84 Company combined reconciliation of
movements in shareholders’ funds and
statements of movements on reserves
85 Notes to the Company financial statements
87 Store Directory
Contents
Cautionary statement
This annual report of H&T Group plc (“H&T Group”, “the Group”, “the Company”) contains some forward-looking information and statements that involve known and
unknown risks and uncertainties, including statements about the Group’s plans, objectives and intentions. The information and statements contained herein are stated
as at the date of this report and there exists the risk that actual results and outcomes may differ from the information and statements made.
1897: 
1 store
Harvey &
Thompson 
was founded
1992: 
27 stores
Cash America 
buys H&T
September 
2004: 
57 stores
MBO backed by
Rutland Partners
May 2006: 
69 stores
H&T floats on AIM
89
77
68
59
27
1
1897 1992 2004 2005 2006 2007 Highlights
• Excellent growth in all revenue lines
• Total number of stores reached 89 at 31 December 2007 (2006: 77) 
with 12 new stores opened during the year: seven acquisitions and 
five greenfields 
• Full roll-out of gold purchasing in store, providing customers with a quicker,
fairly valued cash solution
• Successful placing of 3.6 million shares in May 2007 raising over 
£7 million for store expansion
• Recent acquisitions will serve as a springboard for some regional development
of strong pawnbroking markets in Yorkshire and the South coast
Highlights
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1
2006 2007
23.3
27.7
Gross profit
+18.6%
up to £27.7m (2006: £23.3m)
2006 2007
9.4
11.4
2006 2007
8.0
10.0
2006 2007
11.91
14.72
2006 2007
25.2
27.8
£m
30
25
20
EBITDA
*
before exceptional items
+20.8%
up to £11.4m (2006: £9.4m)
Operating profit
before exceptional items
+24.1%
up to £10.0m (2006: £8.0m)
*Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation, Amortisation as defined in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements
Profit before tax was £7.4m (2006: £2.0m)
Basic EPS was 15.17p (2006: 3.65p)
Basic EPS
excluding exceptional items
+23.6%
up to 14.72p (2006: 11.91p)
Pledge book
+10.4%
up to £27.8m (2006: £25.2m)
Proposed dividend
+13.3%
up to 3.4p (2006: 3.0p)
Operational highlights
p
15
10
5
0
£m
12
9
6
3
£m
12
9
6
3
£m
28
21
14
7 The Business at a glance:
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2
The Business at a glance:
Pawnbroking Pay Day Advance
Cheque Cashing Jewellery Retail
KwikLoan
Prepaid Debit Card
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an
item of value with a term of up to six
months. H&T value the item(s) based on
weight and the precious metal or stones
used in its manufacture. The customer
agrees on a loan amount and enters
into a consumer credit agreement. The
agreement is for a period of 6 months
and the customer can redeem the goods
at any point during this time providing
that they repay the original loan amount
plus any interest due. At the end of the
contract, they also have the option to
extend the loan for a further six months.
If the customer chooses not to redeem or
renew the loan, H&T then take action to
dispose of the goods.
A Pay Day Advance (PDA) loan is a
short term cash loan repayable on the
customer’s next pay date. The service 
is used in a similar manner to a bank
overdraft and in fact the costs are
similar to a number of high street
facilities. The customer writes out
cheques to H&T for the value of up 
to £750 and is given the value of the
cheques less a 13% charge in cash. 
The customer then has the option to: 
• Allow the cheques to be banked; 
• Pay them off in cash; or 
• Extend the cheques for a further 
30 days by paying the charge owed.
Kwikloan is a simple way for customers
to obtain an unsecured loan of up to
£750 which is repaid over 12 months
by direct debit. Before issuing a loan
we establish the customer’s identity,
confirm their income and employment,
and ensure that they manage their 
bank account in a reasonable way. 
If approved then the customer enters
into a consumer credit loan agreement
and we will collect the repayments 
on the date agreed with the customer. 
This product provides a useful way for
customers who are unable to repay a
PDA in full to manage down their loan
with us. Customers can have either a
Kwikloan or a PDA, but not both at the
same time.
Cheque cashing is a service that allows
customers to get cash for their cheques 
in a few minutes, rather than banking 
the cheque. Most cheques are wages
cheques, although other types such as
personal, lottery, building society and
Giro are considered. Customers use
H&T to speed up the cheque clearance
(some building societies can take almost
two weeks to clear a cheque) or to
avoid banking the cheque into an
overdrawn account. Customers are
required to provide proof of identity 
and address in order to use the service.
H&T offer a unique range of new and
second-hand jewellery sourced from 
our pledge book, purchased over the
counter or purchased from suppliers.
The vast majority of items sold are from
forfeited items and all are professionally
cleaned and restored at the company’s
refurbishment centre in Kent. They are
then re-distributed for sale to stores
across the country. H&T staff are able to
use their extensive product knowledge
to assist customers to choose individual
pieces to suit their requirements, a skill
which of course enables them to make
the right loan in the first place.
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way
for customers to have the functionality 
of a Mastercard without the associated
credit, giving them the freedom to shop
online, over the phone or in store. 
As there is no loan or credit involved 
the application process is simple and
the acceptance rate is 100%. Customers
leave the store with an ATM only card
and the personalised Mastercard arrives
in the post shortly after. Cash can then
be loaded to the card at over 14,000
locations across the UK, including any
H&T store or Post Office branch. Chairman’s Statement
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to report that 2007 has seen excellent
growth in all areas of the business with H&T’s 2007 profit
before tax and exceptional items reaching £7.2 million.
Financial Performance
The Group has delivered a year of double digit growth in gross
profit, EBITDA (before exceptional items), profit before tax and
exceptional items and number of stores. Gross profit increased
by 18.6 per cent. to £27.7 million (2006: £23.3 million).
EBITDA before exceptional items increased by 20.8 per cent. 
to £11.4 million (2006: £9.4 million). Operating profit before
exceptional items increased by 24.1 per cent. to £10.0 million
(2006: £8.0 million). We also opened 12 additional stores
during 2007, taking the total number of stores at 31 December
2007 to 89.
Secondary placing
On 16 May 2007, H&T completed the placing of 3.6 million
new ordinary shares to existing shareholders, all UK institutions.
This provided the Group with £7 million of additional finance
for its store expansion programme in which it invested £3.6
million during the year.
Final Dividend
In accordance with the dividend policy declared at the time 
of the flotation, the directors are pleased to recommend a final
dividend of 3.4 pence per ordinary share (2006: 3.0 pence).
This dividend will be paid to all shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 16 May 2008.
Outlook
Since the beginning of 2008 our expansion programme has
continued and as of today we have already opened four new
stores - two by acquisition and two greenfields. This takes the
total current number of stores to 93. We are confident in the
Group’s prospects for 2008. H&T will prosper through a mix 
of continued growth in the established estate, development of
the 18 greenfield stores opened over the last three years and
profit enhancement from the recent acquisitions. The current
high price of gold should also provide some profit opportunities
in the short term.
The hard work and commitment of staff has been central to
achieving 2007’s result and I would like to thank all of them 
for that.
Peter J Middleton Chairman What is Pawnbroking?
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4
What is Pawnbroking?
Pawnbroking is quite simply a loan secured on an item of value.
Traditionally pawnbrokers would accept almost anything of value
in order to secure the loan. The H&T pawnbroking offer is mainly
based on jewellery as it is compact, high value and can be
valued and if necessary resold relatively easily.
How does it work?
The customer brings in the item(s) of value to the store and is
asked to give an indication of how much they want to borrow.
This is done in order to establish how realistic the customer’s
expectation is, as the high margins charged by the high street
jewellers can give an inflated perception of the value of the
goods. The store staff then use a combination of their expertise
and training, together with the point of sale system to determine if
there is adequate security for the loan. Assuming that there is, the
customer and H&T then enter into a credit agreement regulated
by the Consumer Credit Act. This is a contract for 6 months and
carries interest of 8% to 9% flat rate per month. The rate charged
is dependent on local competition and the location of the store.
During the contract the customer can:
• Redeem the pledge. This means they pay H&T the value of the
loan, plus the interest accrued to date; or
• Renew the pledge. This means they pay H&T the interest only
and a new loan agreement is issued for a further six months.
Approximately five months after the date of the loan we will write
to the customer explaining that the contract is almost due and
reminding them of the final date to redeem. We write again once
the contract is expired to give the customer one more chance to
redeem or renew their pledge.
If the customer does not redeem or renew then we have to
attempt to realise the value of the pledge to repay the loan. 
The Consumer Credit Act sets out a different treatment for
pledges over £75 and those £75 and under.
• Over £75: These pledges are sent to public auction with 
a reserve price. In the event that the pledge is sold then H&T
retains the value of the loan, interest to date plus a small
administration fee. 
Any surplus is repaid to the customer.
• £75 and under: These pledges become the property of H&T
immediately; the rules relating to the surplus do not apply due
to the lower value of the items concerned.
Regardless of the outcome H&T does not pursue the customer 
in the rare circumstances when there is a shortfall between the
amount due under the agreement and the amount recovered
when the item is sold. Therefore if the customer is unable to
redeem there will be no further consequences and their credit
rating is unaffected.
“As Good as Gold”
For some, lending money can be a risky business, but not for
H&T. The loan is secured on gold and precious stones (over
98% of our pawnbroking business) and that security is left 
in our possession for the duration of the contract. If the loan
forfeits, then the collateral can be easily liquidated, in almost
all cases at a profit. Valuations, how H&T manage the process
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
Valuations, how H&T manage the process
A pawnbroker advances money secured on items of value.
Therefore it is vital that we can determine what those items
are worth to ensure adequate security, whilst also being able
to give the customer what they want.
(2) Our staff ask the
customer how much
they would like to
borrow and perform a
visual examination of the
item. Using the weight and
metal type we now have a good idea
of what the item is worth based on our
general lending guidelines.
(4) The customer details and a full
description of the item are entered to the
computer system which calculates a range
of loan values in accordance with Group
policy. A credit agreement is
produced and the cash
issued to the customer.
(3) If we can meet the customers
expectations then the item is tested
with a range of acids to determine
the metal type and carat,
while diamonds are
verified using
electronic testing
equipment. 
(1) H&T’s pledge book is almost
entirely gold and diamond set
jewellery, as those items are
relatively easy to value and 
in the event of default 
they can be sold 
either through the 
window or as 
a commodity. Our Customers
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6
Our Customers
Our pawnbroking customers come from a wide range 
of social and demographic backgrounds and bring with them 
a multitude of different items of jewellery, from a heavyweight
belcher chain to a 1970s Rolex to a 5ct diamond solitaire.
The single factor that unites them 
is the ownership of an asset and 
a requirement for short term cash.
Use of Funds
Generally our customers use the funds
obtained for day to day expenses with
a small number borrowing to solve the
short term cash needs of their
businesses.
The H&T Difference
H&T has a long established culture of
customer service and our staff strive 
to help and empathise with our
customers. It is common to hear first
names being used in the stores and
equally the customer to call our staff
by their first name. This is not the result
of scripts or training but rather an
expectation that they are there to help
the customer during what may be a
difficult time. The key to this relationship
is the autonomy given to the store
managers in their management of the
customer relationship. This maintains
the customer relationship and provides 
that flexibility and helpfulness that is 
so often missing from the rest of the
high street.
December 2006 Research
Historically we have scored well in
independent research and mystery
shopping of our stores. The most
recent survey was in December 2006*
using both quantitative and qualitative
techniques and interviews of 250
customers. Once again the research
demonstrated high levels of customer
satisfaction, with over 88% of
customers rating their satisfaction 
with H&T 8 or more out of 10.
* Source: Research by Precient, 
December 2006
72%
of respondents had 
a bank account Around 56%
had access to the 
internet at home. Around
Socio-demographic split Customer age Customer gender
12% AB upper/middle class
9% C1 lower middle class
7% C2 skilled working class
35% D working class
37% E underclass
19% 18-25
26% 26-35
28% 36-45
16% 46-55
10% 55+
60% Female
40% Male Our Customers
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
“AS FAR AS I’M CONCERNED, IT’S LIKE COMING INTO MY LOCAL
BANK OR BUILDING SOCIETY. THE SHOP IS MODERN AND THE STAFF
ARE ALWAYS FRIENDLY AND HELPFUL.”
Walworth Rd 07
“I LIKE THE FACT THAT I CAN NOW SELL MY JEWELLERY AS WELL 
AS GETTING A LOAN ON IT. IT MEANS THAT I CAN GET CASH FOR
THOSE ITEMS I’D FORGOTTEN I EVER HAD!”
Clapham 07
“I HAD VISIONS OF THE STORE BEING REALLY OLD-FASHIONED, AND
WAS PLEASED AND SURPRISED WHEN I WENT INSIDE. IT REALLY IS
JUST LIKE ANY OTHER JEWELLERS ON THE HIGH STREET.”
Crawley 07
“NOTHING’S FOR FREE NOWADAYS, EVERYTHING HAS GOT A BIT
OF INTEREST IN IT AND… I’M HAPPY BECAUSE THEY ARE DOING A
SERVICE FOR ME… I’M HAPPY… TO PAY THE LITTLE BIT OF INTEREST
THAT IT COSTS.”
Burnt Oak 06 Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 8
Chief Executive’s Review 
of the Business
2007 was a record year for H&T on a number of metrics. Our business
model has proved scaleable, with new stores and continued
improvements to our existing businesses driving strong growth.
During 2007, H&T has set a number of new records. Turnover
and gross profit of all business segments increased by double
digit figures. Pawnbroking activities, comprising Pawn Service
Charge and Disposition, represented 87 per cent. (2006: 88
per cent.) of total 2007 gross profit and grew 17 per cent.
year on year. Gold asset-backed lending continues to see
strong demand both in existing and new markets. At the same
time financial services activities, comprising Cheque Cashing
and Other Financial Services, represented 13 per cent. (2006:
12 per cent.) of total 2007 gross profit and grew 29 per cent.
year on year. The transition in 2006 of the back office functions
of Cheque Cashing and Pay Day Advance in-house gave us
the opportunity to market these products more effectively
during 2007.
H&T remains the UK’s leading pawnbroker by size of pledge
book and had 89 outlets across the UK at the end of 2007.
The estate increased by the record number of 12 stores
(2006: nine) during 2007. Of these, five were greenfield
stores and seven were acquired branches. The acquisitions
located in Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire and the South Coast 
will give us access to new markets where pawnbroking has
historically been strong. We will be looking at expanding in
those regions through a regional hub system and take full
advantage of market potential.
The continuing growth we derive from our established and
greenfield stores combined with profit-enhancing acquisitions
has led to record profits. Operating profit before exceptional
items reached £10.0 million in 2007 (2006: £8.0 million), 
a 24.1 per cent. increase on 2006.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Pawn Service Charge 
H&T has been the largest pawnbroker in the UK based 
on the size of the pledge book for many years and as at 
31 December 2007 had a pledge book of £27.8 million
(2006: £25.2 million). 
20,000
16,000
12,000
8,000
4,000
0
£’000
Pawn Service Charge 
Pawn Service Charge (PSC) represents all income earned up to
the completion of a pledge. The main items are interest and net
profit from auctions after returning any surplus to the customer.
In 2007 PSC represented 61.9% of gross profit (2006: 65.6%)
and 71.2% of total pawnbroking gross profit (2006: 74.6%).
The average loan in 2007 was £111 (2006: £105), 
the yield on the pledgebook was 66.2% (2006:62.5%).
04 05 06 07
Pawn Service Charge gross profit
12,853
14,287
15,299
17,122 32.7%
increase in gross profit 
from disposition activities
Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
As indicated in the “develop and establish new products and
services” section of this review, the growth in the pledge book
was impacted by the full roll out of gold purchasing. The
increase in pledge book combined with an improved yield
translated to an 11.9 per cent. increase in Pawn Service
Charge. Maintaining this market leading position remains 
a priority for the Group.
Disposition
The sale of forfeited items to the general public (“Retail”) is 
the most important element of Disposition, generating higher
margins when compared with items that are sold in auction 
or scrap. Although the general trading environment on the
high street deteriorated during the last quarter of 2007, I am
delighted to report that trading remained good for H&T and
we achieved turnover growth of 18.8 per cent. year on year
(11.7 per cent. LFL) while increasing Retail gross profit margin
to 49.4 per cent. (2006: 44.2 per cent.). This has resulted 
in gross profit increasing by 32.6 per cent. between 2006 
and 2007. This very strong performance is a result of the
continued investment in training, marketing and a wider
product range.
In 2007, Scrap gross profit reached £1.5 million (2006: 
£1.1 million). This £0.4 million increase is as a result of the
increase in the price of gold (£0.2 million) and higher Scrap
volumes (£0.2 million). 
OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Cheque Cashing and Pay Day Advance
In January 2006, H&T brought in-house the back office 
for underwriting the in-store Cheque Cashing and Pay Day
Advance businesses, enabling the Group to manage both
products internally saving the fees previously paid to a third
party. It has also allowed us to apply our own expertise in
managing this product without the restrictions imposed by 
a third party. 
11.9%
growth in PSC gross profit
Disposition
Disposition refers to the entire process to dispose of forfeited
pledges. The key routes are retail through the stores and scrap.
Given the higher margin our preferred route is via retail.
Retail
The Company’s retail proposition is primarily gold and jewellery
and almost all (94.7%) retail sales are items sourced from
pawnbroking or purchasing operations. We complement our 
retail offering with a small amount of new jewellery.
We have incorporated the retail offering into all but one H&T
branded outlet and all new H&T Pawnbrokers now have a
dedicated retail window, most including an internal display with 
a separate retail counter.
Profitability in this area is driven by sound valuation at the point of
purchase or lending and also by the management of appropriate
stock. Our preference is to retail the stock that is produced from
forfeited loans purchased over the counter to maximise our returns.
The advantage of H&T over other retailers is that the cost of our
supply is relatively low and we can scrap surplus items and still
make a profit. This offsets the fact that we have little choice over
our supply and therefore must retail what we have available to sell.
As almost all items retailed come from pawnbroking or purchasing
operations we are able to offer an excellent value proposition that
is extremely hard to beat on the high street.
Scrap
Items that are damaged beyond repair, slow moving or surplus 
to retail requirement, may be smelted and sold at the current 
gold spot price less a small commission. The point of sale system
reduces the amount lent or paid on items identified as scrap or 
low quality so we are still able to make a reasonable margin on 
scrap sales.
Total Disposition gross profit,
including scrap
7,500
6,000
4,500
3,000
1,500
0
04 05 06 07
3,516
3,668
5,222
6,927
£’000 Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10
Our experience in 2007 on Cheque Cashing appears to 
go against the market trend. Whilst our competitors reported
difficult times and reducing turnover, H&T turnover grew by 
7 per cent. on a like-for-like basis. Although this is encouraging
we acknowledge that this is in the face of a changing market.
Pay Day Advance continues to provide excellent growth. 
We did however experience a small increase in the percentage
of bad debt which was expected in the context of a rapidly
expanding loan book.
In 2007, gross revenues from Cheque Cashing increased 
to £2.2 million (2006: £1.9 million) and Pay Day Advance
increased to £2.9 million (2006: £1.8 million). 
The revenues net of bad debt from Cheque Cashing and Pay
Day Advance increased to £3.4 million (2006: £2.6 million).
KwikLoan
The KwikLoan product has continued to develop as a medium
term alternative for our Pay Day Advance customers. As in
2006 our focus has been on the development of Pay Day
Advance, with KwikLoan growing alongside it. We believe
there is further opportunity to grow the KwikLoan product
through the development of the loan term, loan value and 
the customer base.
The KwikLoan loan book increased from £0.4 million to 
£0.5 million in the 12 months to 31 December 2007.
KwikLoan gross profit increased by 45.5 per cent. during 
the same period.
Point of sale development
In 2006 we commenced the development of our new point of
sale system which will unify the current store and head office
systems which have developed over a number of years with
one, purpose built, application to support all current business
activities.
The use of new technology will result in some improvement in
operational efficiency, but more importantly, will simplify store
Other Financial Services
Cheque Cashing
Cheque Cashing is the provision of cash in exchange for a
cheque payable to our customer for a commission fee based
on the face value of the cheque. The average cheque value
in 2007 was £355 (2006: £364), with the average fee
being £23 (6.4%).
The cheques are normally in respect of wages and the
service is used as a quick and convenient alternative to a
bank overdraft. The product simply serves a short term need
for cash.
In order to manage the risk associated with cashing 
third party cheques we have access to a variety of
information, from credit reference agencies to internet
directories, as well as our own point of sale system and
database of customer activity. 
Pay Day Advance
Pay Day Advance is a simple form of credit, where the
advance is repaid by cheques presented by the customer at
the point of the loan. The contract allows for 30 days credit
and the average advance in 2007 was £452 (2006: £435),
with a typical charge of 13% (2006: 13%) per 30 days.
The customer will agree a date for the cheque to be banked,
then either:
• Pay additional fees for another 30 days (Extend); or
• Pay the face value of the cheque in cash (Settle); or
• Allow the cheque to be deposited into our account.
1,518
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
04
1,136
03
665
02
1,759
05
2,808
06
3,615
07
Total Other Financial 
Services gross profit
£0.8m
increase in revenues net 
of bad debt from PDA and
Cheque Cashing activities.
33%
increase in the KwikLoan 
loan book
£’000 Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
operations to enable us to achieve the full potential of the
existing product range and implement new products more easily.
Although the development of our new point of sale system is
taking longer than originally anticipated, the project remains
within budget and is expected to be fully rolled out into all
stores by late summer. Since the beginning of the project we
have incurred capital expenditure of £1.3 million and the total
cost including implementation is expected to be in the region
of £1.8 million.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY
Our growth strategy is based on two main streams. Each of
them is progressing in line or ahead of the Board’s expectations.
1. Expand geographical footprint
The significant fragmentation in the UK pawnbroking market 
will continue to provide the Group with acquisition opportunities.
In addition, there remains substantial opportunity for organic
growth with a significant number of towns with an appropriate
population size and demographic mix to support a greenfield
store.
H&T’s strategy at IPO was to develop 30 units between 2006
and 2008, both through greenfield stores and acquisitions,
using current resources whilst maintaining cash flow and
earnings growth at an appropriate level. During 2007, 
we added 12 outlets (2006: nine) to the store portfolio - five
greenfield and seven acquisitions. Two of the acquisitions
opened up new regions to us, in Yorkshire and the South
coast, and can now be used as a regional hub to further
develop these key markets. We would expect to grow the
store footprint by a similar number during 2008 and exceed
the original 30 unit target.
Initially, new pawnbroking units tend to be loss-making. As a
consequence, expanding the store base can suppress short term
earnings growth but provides significant medium term benefit.
KwikLoan
H&T identified the need for an unsecured loan product that had a
longer duration than a Pay Day Advance. The principle is that
some customers are unable to repay the lump sum of a Pay Day
Advance after 30 days and prefer a smaller regular repayment.
The underwriting criteria are essentially the same as for a Pay
Day Advance although we do more verification to ensure that the
customer is likely to be a reasonable risk for the duration of the
loan.
KwikLoan is currently offered over a 12 month period for loan
values up to £750, although the average is closer to £600. We
earn approximately £300 gross interest on a £500 KwikLoan
over a 12 month period.
Prepaid Debit Card
H&T offer a prepaid debit card on behalf of Advanced Payment
Solutions (APS) under the CashPlus brand. The card is an instant
issue Cirrus card (which allows ATM access immediately), with a
personalised MasterCard issued to the customer in the post within
10 days. For further product information refer to
www.apsgroup.com.
H&T were the first national chain to provide the CashPlus card in
the UK and we remain one of the largest customers of APS.
The card is the ideal vehicle to provide funds to our customers in
a more convenient form than cash. The card is the natural
extension to each of our cash based products, with the store staff
cross selling the benefit as part of our pawnbroking and cheque
cashing transactions. We expect the card to enhance our
relationship with customers, increasing retention and loyalty as
they will use our outlets to load additional funds on to the card.
The customers value the status of having a MasterCard and the
ability to use the card online, with over half the transactions on
the card being for internet purchases.
12
new outlets added to
the store portfolio
£7m
additional capital raised Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12
Branch Network
2007 Store openings
2006 Store openings
2005 Store openings
Prior to 2005
City of London
Edinburgh
Manchester
Birmingham
Liverpool
Newcastle
Brighton
Glasgow
London Chief Executive’s Review of Business
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
The Group is actively pursuing acquisitions to accelerate the
consolidation of the industry. During the year the Group issued
3.6m shares to raise additional capital of £7m, of which
£3.4m remained at the year end. This new capital and the
headroom available on existing borrowing facilities provide
the Group with the resources to complete a number of further
transactions. The H&T Board will make acquisitions selectively,
appraising each opportunity fully before proceeding with a
transaction. Consequently, the timing and nature of these
transactions depends on the availability of appropriate
opportunities.
Our greenfield stores are performing well and are on average
exceeding our expectations in terms of pledge book growth.
Whilst encouraging, we note that given the maturity of these
stores they will not have a significant impact on revenues in
the immediate term. These stores will nevertheless deliver a
greater contribution to group profitability over the next few
years. 
2. Develop and establish new products and services
During 2007 we introduced the purchase of gold and
jewellery into all of our stores. This minimises the time required
to access the asset for disposition and also enables simpler
communication with the customer. Whilst this has the effect of
reducing the pledge book as customers who would previously
pledge now sell, it allows a more efficient use of capital as
those goods are held for only 30 days, rather than up to eight
months for a pledge.
The strategy in 2008 is to further develop gold purchasing
and to expand the portfolio of unsecured products, using 
the Pay Day Advance and KwikLoan models to their best
advantage. All of these products provide customers with 
a simple and accessible route to cash, a service that is
invaluable, especially in the current credit climate. We believe
that through cautious development we can expand our
customer base, whilst maintaining an acceptable risk profile. 
The prepaid card continues to attract new customers to the
stores although the general market awareness has taken
longer to develop than anticipated. 
REVIEW OF THE PAWNBROKING MARKET
Competition
The competitive environment has not changed substantially 
in the last year.
The pawnbroking industry remains very fragmented. Although
there are no official statistics, the National Pawnbrokers
Association estimates that there are around one thousand
pawnbroking locations in the UK.
In this environment it is critical to maintain the high levels 
of customer service in store and by doing so we will continue
to be the first choice for our customers.
Regulation
There have been no changes to regulation that will have 
an impact on the products and services we offer.
Current Trading and Outlook
The increasing awareness of the pawnbroking industry 
will undoubtedly provide opportunities in the coming year. 
I believe that the current portfolio of pawnbroking and other
financial services products will enable H&T to capitalise on
those opportunities.
Against wider perception, the general economic climate is 
not necessarily a driver for our business – we do not and have
not seen the pawnbroking industry as cyclical. Our success 
has been based on the fundamentals of a well run business,
with the focus on the customer and an understanding of the
opportunities to grow within a fragmented market. We remain
confident that we can achieve further success.
Finally I would like to recognise the hard work and commitment
of our staff year after year and give them full credit for our 2007
business achievements. Thank you all.
John G Nichols Chief Executive Finance Director’s Review
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14
Finance Director’s Review
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
In accordance with the AIM’s reporting
regime, the Group has adopted
International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRS”) for the financial year
ended 31 December 2007 rather than
UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (“UK GAAP”) as the basis to
report its financial results. This transition
has lead to some differences between
reported numbers under IFRS and UK
GAAP that are simply a result of the
accounting framework change and are
not a reflection of a change in business
performance. The Group released on 
1 August 2007 a report on the impact 
of IFRS (relative to UK GAAP) on H&T’s
results which is accessible on the Group’s
website (www.handtgroup.co.uk).
Turnover and gross profit
Turnover in 2007 grew 19.5 per cent. 
to £38.4 million compared with £32.1
million in 2006. Total gross profit in 2007
increased by 18.6 per cent. to £27.7
million (2006: £23.3 million) driven by
the turnover growth across all business
segments. 
Other direct expenses and 
Administrative expenses
The other direct expenses in 2007 were
£12.8 million compared with £10.9
million in 2006. The 18.0 per cent.
increase in other direct expenses was
primarily driven by the development of
twelve additional stores and the overall
increase in business volumes. At the same
time the Group’s administrative expenses
before exceptional items increased by
£0.4 million from £4.4 million in 2006 
to £4.8 million in 2007.
Operating profit
During 2007, EBITDA before exceptional
items increased by 20.8 per cent. to
£11.4 million (2006: £9.4 million). 
The Group recorded a 24.1 per cent.
increase in operating profit before
exceptional items reporting £10.0 million
in 2007 compared with £8.0 million in
the previous year. Exceptional expenses 
in 2006 of £1.9 million were incurred as
part of the IPO. After taking account of
the exceptional items, H&T’s operating
profit was £10.0 million in 2007
compared with £6.1 million in 2006. 
Finance costs and similar charges
Finance costs before exceptional items
decreased by £1.2 million from £3.9
million in 2006 to £2.7 million in 2007.
This reduction was a result of the
restructuring of bank facilities and loan
notes at the time of H&T’s admission to
AIM in May 2006 combined with the
unspent new money raised in May 2007.
The restructuring in May 2006 incurred
an exceptional charge of £0.8 million 
in the 2006 financial year (2007: £nil).
Profit before taxation
Profit before taxation and exceptional
items increased by £2.5 million from £4.7
million in 2006 to £7.2 million in 2007.
The 2007 result was impacted by a £0.2
million (2006: £0.05 million) exceptional
profit relating to the disposal of a freehold
property while the 2006 result included 
a £1.9 million exceptional administrative
expense relating to H&T’s admission onto
AIM and £0.8 million of debt restructuring
costs. As a result, the Group recorded a
profit before taxation of £7.4 million in
2007 compared with a profit before
taxation of £2.0 million in 2006. 
Taxation
The 2007 effective corporation tax rate
excluding exceptional items was 31 per
cent. (30 per cent. in 2006).
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for 2007 were
15.17p compared with 3.65p in 2006.
Diluted earnings per share for 2007 was
15.14p compared with 3.65p in 2006.
After adjusting for exceptional items
referred to in the profit before taxation
section, adjusted basic earnings per share
increased by 23.6 per cent. from 11.91p
in 2006 to 14.72p in 2007.
Dividend
The H&T Board has recommended a final
dividend of 3.4p per share (2006: 3.0p)
giving a total dividend per share of 
5.0p for 2007 (2006: 3.0p).
Due to the materiality of the amount of exceptional items 
in 2006 and in order to have meaningful comparatives in
2007, some of the metrics used to report performance are
presented excluding these exceptional items. 
Cash flow and capital expenditure
The Group generated cash of £6.3 million
in 2007 from operations (2006: £7.6
million). This result was impacted by the
increase in receivables (£3.2 million)
driven by the growth in the pledge book
and loan portfolio and in inventories
(£2.1 million) between 2006 and 2007.
The Group invested £3.6 million (2006:
£1.0 million) in the acquisition of
pawnbroking and cheque cashing
businesses and assets. 
Capital expenditure during the year was
£1.9 million (2006: £1.6 million). Of this,
£1.5 million related to new stores opened
or acquired during the period and store
refurbishments. The Group also spent
£0.4 million in store and head office new
hardware for both the existing and future
EPOS systems. An investment of £0.2
million in the new EPOS software was
reported in intangible assets. 
New money/debt structure
The Group placed 3.6 million new shares
in May 2007 raising £7.0 million net of
expenses. 
The Group repaid £1.5 million of 
facility A debt in 2007. Net debt (before
unamortised debt issue costs) was £32.2
million at 31 December 2007 compared
with £34.7million at 31 December 2006.
The Group has in place a hedging
agreement fixing the interest rate on
£35.0 million of banking debt for a
period ending 30 June 2009.
Return On Capital Employed (ROCE)
ROCE, defined as profit before tax
excluding exceptional items, interest
receivable, finance costs and movement 
in fair value of interest rate swap as a
proportion of net current assets and
tangible and intangible fixed assets,
(excluding goodwill) increased from 
20.2 per cent. in 2006 to 21.7 per cent.
in 2007.
Laurent P Genthialon Finance Director Our People
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15
Our People
H&T operates in a competitive environment and the
ability to deliver the right level of service, whether 
on loans, cheques or in retail is vital to the future
development of our business.
In order to achieve that level of service we need the right people
in our stores, well trained, motivated and managed. The store
manager is the key to that success and we pride ourselves on
the experience and ability of our field management team.
Training and Development
Our training process consists of internal training sessions,
modular training in store and specialist external training. 
This layered approach ensures our new staff fully develop 
their skills in each product before moving on to the next module. 
We have a well established appraisal system to identify and
develop management candidates and we aim to promote
internally wherever possible.
Accreditations
H&T achieved the Investors in People accreditation in 2002.
6
50
40
30
20
10
0
2-3
9
1-2
11
0-1
5
3-4
6
4-5
52
5+
Tenure of Managers
No. of Managers
Years of service
Top Team Award
H&T seek to recognise and reward exceptional performance
within the business through incentives, bonuses and awards.
The most prestigious of those is the Top Team award which
measures success across all business areas. The winner for 
2007 was Tony Doyle and the team of our Stretford store
“I joined H&T as an assistant in 1985 when they took 
over the shop I was working in and was then promoted
store manager of Stretford. H&T only had 18 stores at 
the time. Since then the Company has launched some new
products, opened a lot of new stores and modified the store
design. One of the few things that has stayed the same 
is the commitment of H&T to its customers and staff. 
My team and I are very proud to have won this award, 
it means a lot to us. We can't wait to go to Dubai!”
Tony Doyle Directors, Officers and Advisers
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16
Directors, Officers and Advisers
The Directors
John G Nichols (Chief Executive), 57
After an early career in the RAF, John
entered the leisure industry with the Rank
Organisation where he held several
senior executive positions. 
John joined H&T as Managing Director 
in 1997 and subsequently became 
Chief Executive. He has been instrumental
in developing and implementing the
business strategy and delivering
consistent growth in revenues and
profitability. He has also been
instrumental in the initiative to obtain 
the ISO9001 and Investors in People
accreditations. 
He is currently President of the National
Pawnbrokers’ Association, a position he
has held since October 2004. 
Laurent P Genthialon (Finance Director), 36
Laurent has spent his career in a variety
of accounting and financial management
positions in the UK and Europe. As the
finance director of Oddbins from 2002 
to 2005 he gained valuable experience
in financial management and business
turn-around during a change of
ownership and subsequent restructuring
of this retail group. 
Laurent joined H&T in May 2005, and
since then, has completed a number 
of internal projects to restructure the
financial reporting functions of the
business and increase the operational
efficiencies of the IT and finance
functions. 
Registered and Head Office and Advisers
Registered and Head Office 
H&T Group plc
Times House, Throwley Way,
Sutton, Surrey, SM1 4AF
Tel: +44 (0) 870 9022 600
Financial Adviser and Nominated Adviser
Hawkpoint Partners Limited
41 Lothbury, London, EC2R 7AE
Broker 
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square, 
London, EC4M 7LT
Legal advisers to the Company
Eversheds LLP
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street
London, EC4V 4JL
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Global House, Crawley
West Sussex, RH10 1DL
Bankers 
Barclays Bank plc
27th Floor, 1 Churchill Place
London, E14 5HP
Registrars
Equiniti
Princess House, 1 Suffolk Lane
London, EC4R 0AX
Public relations 
College Hill
The Registry, Royal Mint Court
London, EC3N 4QN
Stephen A Fenerty (Commercial Director), 35
A Chartered Accountant who trained at
KPMG, Stephen has pursued a variety of
management roles in the alternative credit
sector. Prior to joining H&T, Stephen
worked for The Money Shop (part of
Dollar Financial, Inc.) where he was
responsible for new product development
introducing, amongst others, foreign
exchange, unsecured loans and loans
brokerage. 
Stephen joined H&T in March 2005 
as Commercial Director where he has
launched the pre-paid debit card and
utilised his expertise in credit
management and debt collection. 
He is responsible both for the project
management and implementation of new
product initiatives and for origination and
execution of new store acquisitions. 
Non-Executive Directors
Peter J Middleton (Chairman), 68
Peter has held several senior positions 
in finance and commerce including chief
executive of Lloyd’s of London, chief
executive of Salomon Europe and chief
executive of Thomas Cook. He was also
a managing director of Nomura Principal
Finance and Terra Firma and gained
direct experience of the alternative credit
sector as chairman of Brighthouse. 
He has been Chairman of H&T since
September 2004. 
Andrew J Brown, 63
Andrew, a Chartered Accountant, has
wide ranging experience of the financial
services sector, including executive
positions with Sterling Guarantee Trust
and Sedgwick Group. He was finance
director and subsequently joint chief
executive of Gartmore Investment
Management plc. He has been a board
member or chairman of a number of
listed and unlisted companies and is
presently a non-executive director of Oval
Limited, Framlington Income & Capital
Trust PLC and Thames River Capital (UK)
Limited. 
Peter D McNamara, 57
Peter spent the majority of his career 
with Lloyds Bank plc, as chief manager
for strategic planning, mergers and
acquisitions, and then as the managing
director of Personal Banking. 
He subsequently served as group
managing director of the Alliance &
Leicester plc and chief executive of
Wesleyan Assurance Society, a mutual
life insurance business. In 2002 he left 
to become chairman and subsequently
executive chairman of Moneybox plc, 
the leading ATM deployer operating in
the UK, Germany and the Netherlands,
which he led to flotation on AIM. 
He is presently executive Chairman 
of Notemachine Ltd and non-executive
director of Radian Europe Ltd. Corporate Governance 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17
Corporate Governance
The directors recognise the importance 
of adopting good corporate governance
practices in the best interests of all
shareholders. Although the Company is 
not required to report on compliance with
the Combined Code (“the Code”) since its
shares are traded on the AIM market, the
Company complies, so far as practical,
with the Code in the following ways:
DIRECTORS
The Board
The Board comprises three executive
directors and three non-executive directors.
Their biographies appear on page 16. 
A review of these shows a range of
experience and expertise sufficient to 
bring independent judgement on issues 
of strategy, performance, resources and
standards of conduct which is vital to 
the success of the group. The three 
non-executive directors hold shares
(as disclosed page 22). However because 
the number of shares held is small and
there are no cross directorships between
executive and non-executive directors, the
non-executive directors are considered to
be independent.
Board meetings
The Board is responsible to the
shareholders for the proper management
of the Group. A statement of directors’
responsibilities in respect of the financial
statement is set out in this Annual Report. 
The Board meets 10 times during the 
year. To enable the Board to discharge 
its duties, all directors receive appropriate
and timely information. Briefing papers 
are distributed to all directors in advance
of the Board meetings. There is a formal
schedule of matters reserved to the Board
which include the determination of
strategy, approval of new stores and
acquisitions, approval of budget and
major capital expenditure. 
At Board meetings, the agenda normally
comprises a review of the management
accounts, a CEO review of operations, 
a review of new store proposal and
potential acquisitions and an update on
the progress of the group’s other strategic
objectives. 
The Board meetings in August and March
cover the approval of the interim and
preliminary financial results respectively
and the November meeting deals with 
the approval of the annual budget.
The following committees deal with the
specific aspects of the group’s affairs:
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises
three independent Non-Executive Directors
of the Company. The members of the
Committee are:
• Peter D McNamara (Chairman)
• Peter J Middleton
• Andrew J Brown
The Committee meets at least once in 
each year and at such other times as 
the Chairman of the Committee sees fit.
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed
by the Board on the recommendation of the
Nomination Committee. The quorum for the
Committee is two.
The duties of the Committee are to:
• determine and agree with the Board
the framework or broad policy for 
the remuneration of the Chairman,
executive Directors and any employees
that the Board delegates to it;
• within the terms of the agreed policy,
determine individual remuneration
packages including bonuses, incentive
payments, share options, pension
arrangements and any other benefits;
• determine the contractual terms on
termination and individual termination
payments, ensuring that the duty of 
the individual to mitigate loss is fully
recognised;
• in determining individual packages
and arrangements, give due regard 
to the comments and recommendations 
of the Combined Code and the Listing
Rules;
• be told of and be given the chance 
to advice on any major changes in
employee benefit structures in the
Company;
• recommend and monitor the level and
structure of remuneration for senior
managers below Board level as
determined;
• agree the policy for authorising claims
for expenses from the Chief Executive
and from the Chairman of the Board;
and
• recommend an annual report for the
Board to put to Shareholders on
executive remuneration compliant 
with relevant legal and regulatory
provisions.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
• seek any information it requires from
any employee of the Company in order
to perform its duties;
• be responsible for establishing the
selection criteria and then for selecting,
appointing and setting the terms 
of reference for any remuneration
consultants providing advice to the
Committee, at Company’s expense;
and
• obtain, at the Company’s expense,
outside legal or other professional
advice where necessary in the course
of its activities.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three
independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. The members of the Committee
are:
• Andrew J Brown (Chairman) -
Chartered Accountant
• Peter J Middleton
• Peter D McNamara
The Audit Committee reviews each year
the arrangements for safeguarding auditor
objectivity and independence. The Audit
Committee reviews the scope, results and
cost-effectiveness of internal and external
audit, and has delegated power from 
the Board to exercise the power from
shareholders to agree fees for external
auditors. The Audit Committee is
responsible for satisfying itself on the
independence of internal auditors and 
on the independence and objectivity of
external auditors. The Committee reviews
the operation of internal controls and
reports to the Board on the annual review
of the internal control and risk
management. Corporate Governance
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 18
Corporate Governance
(continued)
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises
three independent Non-Executive Directors
of the Company. The members of the
Committee are:
• Peter J Middleton (Chairman)
• Peter D McNamara
• Andrew J Brown
The function of the Nomination Committee
is to provide a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for the appointment
of new Directors to the Board. In carrying
out its duties, the Nomination Committee 
is primarily responsible for:
• identifying and nominating candidates
to fill Board vacancies;
• evaluating the structure and
composition of the Board with regard
to the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience and making
recommendations accordingly;
• reviewing the time requirements of
Non-Executive Directors;
• giving full consideration to succession
planning; and
• reviewing the leadership of the Group.
Internal controls
The Board acknowledges that it is
responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for the continuing
process of reviewing the effectiveness 
of the internal controls. Internal control
systems are designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The
directors confirm that they have reviewed
the effectiveness of the systems of internal
control that have been in operation during
the year. The group has a branch internal
audit function.
lnternal control: financial
The internal control process has been
reviewed and its main features are:
• Financial Reporting: there is a
comprehensive budgeting system with
an annual budget approved by the
Board. Monthly trading results are
reported against the corresponding
figures for the budget and previous
year. The Board also reviews re-forecasts
on a regular basis.
• Capital Expenditure: there is a
comprehensive budgeting system for
capital expenditure with an annual
budget approved by the Board. The
Finance Director authorises individual
items of capital expenditure and
material items are also authorised 
by the Board or CEO.
• Cashflow: an annual cashflow forecast
is drawn up and approved by the
Board and actual cashflow is reviewed
monthly against this forecast.
• Organisational Structure: a clear
organisational structure with defined
responsibilities and clear authority
levels has been set.
• Branch Audit: a Branch Audit function
exists to ensure that group procedures
regarding cash, pledges and stock
handling are being adhered to.
Internal control: risk management 
During the year, the group had in place
formalised procedures to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks and to
enable management to assess and
regularly report to the board on issues
relating to business, operational, financial
and non-compliance risks.
Relations with shareholders
The board recognises the importance 
of communications with shareholders. 
The Chief Executive’s statement and 
the operational review on pages 8 to 13
include a detailed review of the business
and future developments. There is 
a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders including presentations after
the Group’s preliminary announcement of
the year end results and at the half year
results.
Going concern
Based on the Group’s budgets and
financial projections, the directors have
satisfied themselves that the business 
is a going concern. The Board has a
reasonable expectation that the group 
has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future and therefore the financial
statements are prepared on the going
concern basis. Directors’ Report 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report
and the audited financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal activities and review 
of the business
The principal activity of the Company 
is that of a non-trading holding company 
for Harvey & Thompson Limited and H&T
Finance Limited. The main activities of the
Group continue to be pawnbroking, retail
of jewellery, cheque cashing, unsecured
lending and other related services
operated through Harvey & Thompson
Limited.
A review of the business and its future
development (including the information that
fulfils the relevant requirements of section
234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985) is
given in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief
Executive’s Review of the Business and
Finance Director’s Review on pages 3 
to 14.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The directors continually identify, evaluate
and manage material risks and
uncertainties faced by the Group which
could adversely affect the Group’s
business, operating results and financial
condition. It is unfortunately inevitable 
in a business that has a stock in trade
consisting of cash and gold that fraudulent
losses occur from time to time. We have in
place both the highest ethical requirements
of our staff, continually refined and
improved procedures, together with an
internal audit team to address this risk. 
The list below details what the directors
consider to be the principal risks and
uncertainties and the actions taken, 
or to be taken, to mitigate the adverse
consequences. This list is not intended to
be exhaustive and other risks may emerge
over time:
Area Description of risk Examples of mitigating activities
Pawnbroking - Loss of customers with a high level - Maintenance of a high level of customer service
of repeat transactions
- Potential changes in regulatory environment - Continual monitoring and lobbying
Cash, pledge book - Physical security of all assets - High level of investment in security systems
and retail inventory
- Insufficient pledge securities - Staff training and pledge tests
- Monitoring of established lending criteria
- Internal audit function
Cheque cashing - Significant worsening of bad debts - Investment in IT systems
and unsecured lending
- Staff training
- Continual monitoring of bad debts 
and lending criteria
- Internal audit function
Business operations - Back office and communication systems failure - Established IT disaster recovery plan
People - Succession planning, retention and capability - High investment in on-going training
- Performance related pay package
Financing - Potential increase in cost of financing - Use of hedging instruments (interest rate swap)
due to borrowings being on a floating rate
- Bank funding is subject to strict financial covenants - Regular forecasting exercise and regular 
communication with the financing bank Directors’ Report 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20
Directors’ Report
(continued)
Results and financial position
The Group results for the financial year, 
set out on page 25 and the financial
position as at 31 December 2007 set out
on page 27, are commented upon in the
Finance Director’s Review on page 14.
Dividends
The directors propose a final dividend 
of 3.4p (2006: 3.0p) per share subject 
to approval at the Annual General
Meeting on14 May 2008. This proposed
dividend, in accordance with IAS 10
‘Events after the balance sheet date’ for
the Group, and, FRS 21 ‘Events after the
balance sheet date’ for the Company, 
has not been provided for in the attached
financial statements. During the year, the
Company paid the final dividend for the
year ended 31 December 2006 of 3.0p
per share.
Financial risk management objectives 
and policies
The Group’s activities expose it to a
number of financial risks including cash
flow risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and 
price risk. The use of financial derivatives
is governed by the Group’s policies
approved by the board of directors, 
which provide written principles on the 
use of financial derivatives to manage
these risks. The Group does not use
derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes.
A summary of the principal financial 
risks is provided below. Further detailed
discussion is provided in note 29 to the
consolidated financial statements.
Cash flow risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily
to the financial risks of changes in interest
rates. The Group uses an interest rate
swap contract to hedge this exposure on
£35,000,000 (2006 - £35,000,000) of
the Group bank loans. The Group has no
exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates as the Group’s activities
are wholly conducted in Great Britain.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets 
are bank balances and cash, trade and
other receivables. The Group’s credit risk 
is primarily attributable to its trade
receivables, the most significant of 
which are the pledge book, the KwikLoan
loanbook, Pay Day Advances and Cheque
Cashing balances.
The risk attributable to the pledge book is
considered as almost non-existent due to
the presence of collaterals (the customer’s
pledges) which can be easily liquidated in
almost all cases at a profit. 
The risks attached to the KwikLoan loan
book and Pay Day Advances, both of
which are unsecured lending, are
mitigated by the continual monitoring 
of bad debts and a possible modification
of lending criteria. With respect to the
KwikLoan product, the Group performs 
an external credit check prior to lending.
Similar procedures mitigate the risks
associated with Cheque Cashing activities.
The amounts presented in the balance
sheet are net of allowances for doubtful
receivables. An allowance for impairment
is made where there is an identified 
loss event which, based on previous
experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and
derivative financial instruments is limited
because of the high credit-ratings assigned
by international credit-rating agencies to
the Group’s bankers.
The Group has no significant concentration
of credit risk, with exposure spread over 
a large number of counterparties and
customers.
Liquidity risk
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that
sufficient funds are available for ongoing
operations and future developments, the
Group uses a mixture of long-term and
short-term debt finance. At 31 December
2007 the Group had sufficient headroom
on its current borrowings and is in full
compliance with all loan covenants.
Furthermore, the Company reviews at the
appropriate time, the possibility of raising
future equity finance to expand activities.
Price risk
Generally the Group is not exposed to
price risk, as the majority of its jewellery
and all of its scrap gold are obtained
through unredeemed pledges, which have
a cost to the Group which is lower than
the resale value. The Group is exposed 
to adverse movements in the price of gold
in its gold scrap activities. The Group
considers this risk to be limited due to the
current high margin on scrap gold. Should
the price of gold drop significantly, the
Group can mitigate that risk by changing
its lending policy on pawnbroking pledges
or by entering hedging instruments.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised share capital 
are shown in note 30 to the consolidated
financial statements. As disclosed in note
30, during the period 3,600,000 new
ordinary shares of £0.05 each were
issued, called up and fully paid at the
placing price of £2.04 per share.
As a result of the above transaction the
nominal issued share capital has increased
from £1,574,285 as at 31 December 2006
to £1,754,285 as at 31 December 2007.
The company has one class of ordinary
shares which carry no right to fixed
income. Each share carries the right to one
vote at general meetings of the Company.
On 17 March 2008, the company has
been notified, in accordance with chapter
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency
Rules, of the following voting rights as a
shareholder of the company.
Percentage of No. of
voting rights Ordinary
Name of holder and issued share capital shares
UBS Global Asset Management 8.95% 3,188,793
Aviva plc 8.29% 2,906,976
Lehman Brothers International (Europe) 7.92% 2,779,993
BlackRock Investment Management 7.69% 2,699,271
AXA Framlington 6.91% 2,424,865
Baillie Gifford & Co 4.95% 1,737,790
Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 4.46% 1,563,783
Gartmore Investment Ltd 4.29% 1,506,248
Loeb Partners Corporation 4.03% 1,413,292
Henderson Global Investors Ltd 3.26% 1,143,380
Eaglet Investment Trust PLC 2.71% 951,883 Directors’ Report 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
Details of employee share schemes are 
set out in note 31. Under these share
schemes, there are currently a potential
789,836 number of shares that will be
issued to current option holders at the call
of the option holder. Under its Articles of
Association, the Company has authority to
allot under these share schemes, for cash,
up to a maximum of 2,098,500 ordinary
shares without being required to offer such
securities to all shareholders in accordance
with statutory pre-emption rights.
On any date, no option may be granted
under any share option scheme, if (as a
result) the aggregate nominal value of
ordinary share issued or issuable pursuant
to options granted during the previous 
10 years under any share option scheme
would exceed 10% of the nominal value 
of the share capital of the Company in
issue on that date.
There are no other potentially dilutive equity
instruments in the Company in issue at 
31 December 2007. 
No person has any special rights of
control over the Company’s share capital
and all issued shares are fully paid. 
With regard to the appointment and
replacement of directors, the Company 
is governed by its Articles of Association,
the Companies Acts and related legislation
and requires certain directors annually to
retire by rotation. The Articles themselves
may be amended by special resolution of
the shareholders. 
There are a number of agreements that take
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of
control of the Company, such as commercial
contracts, bank loan agreements, property
lease arrangements and employees’ share
plans. None of these are considered to be
significant in terms of their likely impact on
the business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore the directors are not aware of
any agreements between the Company, or
any other group company, and its directors
or employees that provide for compensation
for loss of office or employment that occurs
because of a takeover bid.
Directors and their interests
The directors who served throughout the
year, and to the date of this report, were 
as follows:
Executive
J G Nichols
L P Genthialon
S A Fenerty
Non-Executive
P J Middleton
P D McNamara 
A J Brown
The directors hold the following notifiable
beneficial interests in the ordinary share
capital of the Company:
Acquired At
At 1 January in the Disposed 31 December
Director Type of share 2007 year of in the year 2007
J G Nichols Ordinary 5p shares 1,400,000 – (400,000) 1,000,000
L P Genthialon Ordinary 5p shares 800,000 – (200,000) 600,000
S A Fenerty Ordinary 5p shares 400,000 – (100,000) 300,000
P J Middleton Ordinary 5p shares 12,000 – – 12,000
P D McNamara Ordinary 5p shares 12,000 – – 12,000
A J Brown Ordinary 5p shares 12,000 13,000 – 25,000
As a result of the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes operated by the Group, the following directors have a beneficial
interest in options granted over ordinary shares in H&T Group plc:
Granted Date
At start during At end of Exercise from which Expiry
of the year the year the year price exercisable date
J G Nichols 87,397 – 87,397 182.5p 8/9/2009 7/9/2016
– 78,390 78,390 217.5p 17/5/2010 16/5/2017
165,787
L P Genthialon 63,287 – 63,287 182.5p 8/9/2009 7/9/2016
– 55,632 55,632 217.5p 17/5/2010 16/5/2017
118,919
S A Fenerty 51,233 – 51,233 182.5p 8/9/2009 7/9/2016
– 45,517 45,517 217.5p 17/5/2010 16/5/2017
96,750
No options have been exercised by any of the directors in the year.
At 31 December 2007, the market price of the Company’s shares was 204.5p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2007
was 172.0p – 250.0p. None of the directors hold any interests in the shares of any other company within the H&T Group plc Group.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, the following directors will retire by rotation and will be offering themselves
for re-election:
L P Genthialon 
S A Fenerty Directors’ Report 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22
Directors’ Report
(continued)
Directors’ indemnities
Under the Company’s articles of association,
any director is entitled to be indemnified
by the Company (to the extent permitted
by law) against any liability incurred by
him in defending proceedings which relate
to any acts or omissions in his capacity 
as officer of the Company. In addition, 
the Company maintains insurance for the
benefit of the directors in respect of such
matters which it considers to be appropriate.
These arrangements were in force
throughout the whole of the current 
and preceding financial years.
Personnel
Details of the number of employees and
related costs can be found in note 9 to the
consolidated accounts. All employees have
contracts of employment with Harvey &
Thompson Limited, the trading subsidiary
in the H&T plc Group.
Harvey & Thompson Limited maintains 
a policy of equal opportunities and is
committed to ensuring that all individuals
are treated fairly, with respect and are
valued. Harvey & Thompson Limited 
also has the IIP (Investors In People)
accreditation which is a respected
standard of good people management
practice in the United Kingdom.
All employees are incentivised through
appropriate bonus schemes; store
managers, head office management and
the directors also qualify for the H&T
Group plc approved share option scheme
(ASOS). Executive Directors and senior
management also qualify for the H&T
Group plc unapproved share option
scheme (USOS). 
Employee consultation
Consultation with employees or their
representatives has continued at all levels,
with the aim of ensuring that their views
are taken into account when decisions are
made that are likely to affect their interests
and that all employees are aware of the
financial and economical performance 
of their stores, areas and of the Group as
a whole. This is achieved through formal
and informal meetings, weekly information
bulletins, a quarterly newsletter and every
year through a store managers’
conference.
Employment of the disabled
It is the policy of the Group to give full 
and fair consideration to the employment
of disabled persons in jobs suited to 
their individual circumstances and, 
as appropriate, to consider them 
for recruitment opportunities, career
development and training. Where
possible, arrangements are made for 
the continuing employment of employees
who have become disabled whilst in the
Group’s employment.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of
payment with suppliers when agreeing 
the terms of each transaction, ensure that
suppliers are made aware of the terms 
of payment and abide by the terms of
payment. Trade creditors of the Group at
31 December 2007 were equivalent to 
29 (2006 - 27) days’ purchases, based 
on the average daily amount invoiced by
suppliers during the year. 
Charitable and political contributions
During the year the Company and Group
did not make any charitable donations
(2006 - £nil) nor any political contributions
(2006 - £nil).
Independent auditors and statement of
provision of information to the independent
auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at
the date of approval of this report confirms
that:
(1) so far as the director is aware, there is
no relevant audit information of which
the Company’s auditors are unaware;
and
(2) the director has taken all the steps that
he ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make himself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’s auditors
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should 
be interpreted in accordance with the
provisions of s234ZA of the Companies
Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their
willingness to continue in office as auditors
and a resolution to reappoint them will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors
and signed on behalf of the Board
J G Nichols
Chief Executive
18 March 2008 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. The directors are required
to prepare the group financial statements
under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union. The group financial
statements are also required by law to 
be properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1
requires that IFRS financial statements
present fairly for each financial year 
the Group's financial position, financial
performance and cash flows. This requires
the faithful representation of the effects of
transactions, other events and conditions 
in accordance with the definitions and
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities,
income and expenses set out in the
International Accounting Standards Board’s
‘Framework for the preparation and
presentation of financial statements’. 
In virtually all circumstances, a fair
presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting
policies;
• present information, including
accounting policies, in a manner that
provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information; and 
• provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific requirements
in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions
on the entity’s financial position and
financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards
and applicable law). The parent company
financial statements are required by law 
to give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company. In preparing these
financial statements, the directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the parent
company financial statements comply with
the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. Independent Auditors’ Report
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24
Independent Auditors’ Report on the Group Financial
Statements to the Members of H&T Group plc
We have audited the group financial
statements of H&T Group plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2007 which
comprise the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated balance sheet,
the consolidated cash flow statement, the
consolidated statement of changes in
equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
These group financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. 
We have reported separately on the
parent company financial statements 
of H&T Group plc for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the
Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as
a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report and the group financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group
financial statements in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to
whether the group financial statements
give a true and fair view, whether the
group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the group financial statements. The
information given in the Directors’ Report
includes that specific information presented
in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief
Executive’s Review of the Business and 
the Finance Director’s Review that is cross
referred from the Business Review section
of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our
opinion, we have not received all the
information and explanations we require
for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding director’s remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained
in the Annual Report as described in the
contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited group financial
statements. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of 
any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any further information outside
the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures 
in the group financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the group
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit 
so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the group financial
statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of
information in the group financial
statements. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a
true and fair view, in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union, of the state of the group’s affairs
as at 31 December 2007 and of its
profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the group
financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors 
Crawley, United Kingdom
18 March 2008 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Total
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional (As restated
exceptional Items exceptional Items - see notes 2
items (note 14) Total items (note 14) and 37)
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 5,6 38,363 – 38,363 32,115 – 32,115
Cost of sales (10,699) – (10,699) (8,787) – (8,787)
Gross profit 6 27,664 – 27,664 23,328 – 23,328
Other direct expenses (12,844) – (12,844) (10,886) – (10,886)
Administrative expenses (4,836) – (4,836) (4,399) (1,903) (6,302)
Operating profit 7 9,984 – 9,984 8,043 (1,903) 6,140
Investment revenues 5,10 35 – 35 27 – 27
Other gains 11 – 201 201 –4646
Finance costs 12 (2,706) – (2,706) (3,936) (801) (4,737)
Movement in fair value of 
interest rate swap (151) – (151) 561 – 561
Profit before taxation 7,162 201 7,363 4,695 (2,658) 2,037
Tax charge on profit 13 (2,232) (52) (2,284) (1,421) 386 (1,035)
Profit for the financial year 4,930 149 5,079 3,274 (2,272) 1,002
Note 2007 2006
Pence Pence
Earnings per share
From continuing operations
Basic 15 15.17 3.65
Diluted 15 15.14 3.65
All results derive from continuing operations. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
At 31 December 2007
Retained
(deficit)/
earnings Total
Share (As restated (As restated
premium - see notes 2 - see notes 2
Share capital account and 37) and 37)
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2006 1,000 – (502) 498
Profit for the financial year – – 1,002 1,002
Total income for the financial year – – 1,002 1,002
Issue of share capital 574 17,790 – 18,364
Share issue costs – (678) – (678)
Share option credit taken directly to equity 31 – – 19 19
Corporation tax on share options 13(b) – – 401 401
At 1 January 2007 1,574 17,112 920 19,606
Profit for the financial year – – 5,079 5,079
Total income for the financial year – – 5,079 5,079
Issue of share capital 30 180 7,164 – 7,344
Share issue costs – (282) – (282)
Share option credit taken directly to equity 31 – – 105 105
Dividends paid 16 – – (1,507) (1,507)
At 31 December 2007 1,754 23,994 4,597 30,345 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2007
2006
(As restated
- see notes 2 
2007 and 37)
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 17 16,415 14,899
Other intangible assets 18 1,480 804
Property, plant and equipment 19 6,093 5,396
23,988 21,099
Current assets
Inventories 21 6,720 4,237
Trade and other receivables 22 36,105 31,869
Cash and cash equivalents 22 1,966 2,108
Derivative financial instruments 26 – 133
Assets held for sale 23 – 37
44,791 38,384
Total assets 68,779 59,483
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (3,322) (3,510)
Current tax liabilities 24 (1,193) (88)
Borrowings 25 (1,766) (1,255)
Derivative financial instruments 26 (18) –
(6,299) (4,853)
Net current assets 38,492 33,531
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 25 (31,651) (34,617)
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (365) (407)
Provisions 28 (119) –
(32,135) (35,024)
Total liabilities (38,434) (39,877)
Net assets 30,345 19,606
Equity
Share capital 30 1,754 1,574
Share premium account 23,994 17,112
Retained earnings 4,597 920
Total equity 30,345 19,606
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 18 March 2008.
They were signed on its behalf:
J G Nichols
Chief Executive Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 December 2007
2006
(As restated
- see notes 2 
2007 and 37)
Note £’000 £’000
Net cash from/(used by) operating activities 35 2,647 (254)
Investing activities
Interest received 35 27
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 267 118
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (2,155) (1,936)
Purchases of intangible assets (242) (706)
Acquisition of trade and assets of businesses 32 (3,550) (1,013)
Net cash used in investing activities (5,645) (3,510)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 16 (1,507) –
Repayments of borrowings (2,700) (19,500)
Increase in borrowings – 6,251
Net proceeds on issue of shares 7,063 17,687
Net cash from financing activities 2,856 4,438
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (142) 674
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,108 1,434
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,966 2,108 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
1. General information
H&T Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered office
is given on page 16. The nature of the group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Chairman’s
Statement, Chief Executive Officer’s Review of the Business, the Finance Director’s Review and the Directors’ Report.
2. Adoption of IFRS and changes in accounting policies
First time adoption
The Group has adopted IFRS from 1 January 2006 (‘the date of transition’). The effect of the transition from UK GAAP as previously
reported by the Group to IFRS as at 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006, and for the financial year ended 31 December 2006, 
is included in note 37. In accordance with IFRS 1 the Group is entitled to a number of voluntary and mandatory exemptions from full
restatement for certain standards, which have been adopted as dealt with below:
Business combinations
The basis for accounting for pre-transition business combinations under UK GAAP has not been revisited.
Change in accounting policy
During the current financial year, the Group has elected to change its accounting policy for the treatment of overheads directly related 
to bringing inventory to its present location and condition. 
Under UK GAAP, the Group expensed these overheads in Other direct expenses on the basis that the amount that would be absorbed to
the closing stock balance was not material. Upon transition to IFRS the Group has revisited the accounting treatment of these overheads
and, whilst not material, has decided to include these overheads as part of the cost of inventories in accordance with both IFRS and the
previous UK GAAP applied by the Group. This change in accounting policy has been accounted for retrospectively and the financial
statements at 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 have been restated. 
The impact on this change has been an increase in profit after taxation of £26,000 in the year to 31 December 2006, an increase 
in net assets of £91,000 as at 1 January 2006, and an increase in net assets of £117,000 as at 31 December 2006.
Standards and interpretation in issue but not yet effective 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied 
in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IAS 1 (Revised) Presentation of Financial Statements
IAS 23 (Revised)  Borrowing costs
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the
financial statements of the Group except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on 
or after 1 January 2009.
3. Significant accounting policies 
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the
European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. The financial statements
have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its
subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiary undertakings have been included in the  Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Group financial statements using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly the Group income statement includes the results 
of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, 
as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with
those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries, or trade and assets, is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured
at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments
issued, or to be issued, by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business
combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3
are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for
sale in accordance with IFRS 5 “Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”, which are recognised and measured
at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group has taken the exemption conferred in IFRS 1, “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”, not to restate
business combinations prior to the transition date of 1 January 2006 under IFRS 3.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities
of a subsidiary, or trade and assets previously operated through either sole partnerships in limited companies with no audited accounts
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in the Group income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) expected to benefit
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is 
less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to
the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. The Group considers each of its stores to be a cash generating unit with
the exception of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Harvey & Thompson Limited by the Group in September 2004, where the
subsidiary undertaking as a whole is the cash generating unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date and subsequently as required by the provisions of IAS 36 “Impairment of assets”.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are carried at cost less amortisation less impairment losses. Intangible assets represent intangibles
which have been separately identified under IFRS 3 arising in business combinations, or meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38,
“Intangible Assets”.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is calculated using the expected life of the intangible assets
acquired.
Amortisation of other intangible assets (computer software) is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the asset less
its assessed realisable value over its estimated useful life (6 to 8 years). Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less
estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold land and buildings 
- Freehold buildings 50 years  
- Freehold improvements 10 years
Short leasehold premises 
- Leasehold improvements Shorter of 7 years or life of lease
Motor vehicles 4 years
Computer equipment  
- Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
Fixtures and fittings 10 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable.
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as 
an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised as income immediately.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less
costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset 
(or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should 
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 32
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For stock acquired for retail sale the cost represents the purchase
price plus overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present location and condition and is measured on a first in first out
basis. For stock arising from unredeemed pledges the cost represents the amount originally loaned, plus overheads directly related to
bringing inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs
of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stocks.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet at fair value when the Group becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers in the normal course of business. Trade receivables include certain amounts,
namely pledge receivables and KwikLoan debtors which are interest bearing. The accrued interest arising on these interest bearing
assets is included in prepayments and accrued income using the effective interest method. All other amounts which are not interest
bearing are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts, which are charged
to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at hand and deposits held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement
using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in
the period in which they arise.
Where issue costs are incurred in a restructuring of loan finance, these costs are written off in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate
method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts 
to hedge these exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group has elected not to adopt the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39, and accordingly derivative financial instruments are
initially measured at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting
date. The gains and losses on re-measurement are taken to the income statement and included adjacent to finance costs.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses
reported in the income statement. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the
initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit
nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and
interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets
and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases
Leases taken by the Group are assessed individually as to whether they are finance leases or operating leases. Leases are classified as
finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases
are classified as operating leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The benefit of lease incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
The Group currently has no finance leases.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where
the effect is material.
Share capital and share premium account
There is one class of shares. When new shares are issued, they are recorded in share capital at their par value. The excess of the issue
price over the par value is recorded in the share premium account.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are recorded in equity as a deduction, net of tax, to the share
premium account. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and
services and interest income provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably
measured. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
• Retail comprises revenue from retail jewellery sales, of both purchased stock and from the sale of pledged security from unredeemed
pawn loans and is recognised at the time of sale;
• Pawnbroking, or Pawn Service Charge (PSC), comprises interest on pledge book loans, plus auction profit and loss, less any auction
commissions payable and less surplus payable to the customer. Interest receivable on loans is recognised as interest accrues by
reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount;
• Scrap comprises proceeds from gold scrap sales and is recognised at the time of sale;
• Cheque cashing comprises revenues from third party Cheque Cashing and Pay Day Advances. The commission receivable on cheque
cashing is recognised at the time of the transaction;
• Other financial services comprise revenues from other unsecured lending. Interest receivable on unsecured loans is recognised as
interest accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts 
the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount; and
• Any other revenues are recognised on an accruals basis.
The Group recognises interest income arising on secured and unsecured lending within trading revenue rather than investment revenue
on the basis that this represents most accurately the business activities of the Group.
The Group recognises revenue and bad debt expenses (both impairments and movements on allowance accounts) on Pawnbroking,
cheque cashing and other financial services on a portfolio approach. The Group considers that the bad debts arising on the loans
and receivables balances are a direct function of the revenue earned due to the nature of the activities, and accordingly records the net
amount of interest or commissions due and bad debt expenses within revenue. The Group provides an analysis of the amounts recorded
against revenue in notes 6, 7 and 29.
Gross profit
Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the period.
Other direct expenses
Other direct expenses comprise all expenses associated with the operation of the various shops and collection centre of the Group,
including premises expenses, such as rent, rates, utilities and insurance, all staff costs and staff related costs for the relevant employees.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items represent material items of income or expense which derive from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary
activities of the Group and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or
incidence, if the financial statements are to provide a meaningful year on year comparison of results.  Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation. It is calculated by adding back depreciation and
amortisation to the operating profit as follows:
2007 2006
Total
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional (As restated
exceptional Items exceptional Items - see notes 2
items (note 14) Total items (note 14) and 37)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating profit 9,984 – 9,984 8,043 (1,903) 6,140
Depreciation and amortisation 1,368 – 1,368 1,358 – 1,358
EBITDA 11,352 – 11,352 9,401 (1,903) 7,498
The Board considers EBITDA as a key measure of the Group’s financial performance.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before investment income finance costs, other gains and movement in fair value of interest rate swap.
Retirement benefit costs
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme which is contracted into the State Scheme. The amount charged to the income
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year. 
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the
balance sheet.
Employee share incentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees (including directors). These payments are measured at fair
value at the date of grant by use of a Binomial model or a Monte Carlo model depending on the vesting conditions attached to each
scheme. This fair value cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s
estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. For the share options
subject to vesting market and non-market based conditions, the fair value cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of any non
market-based vesting conditions irrespective of the outcome of the market conditions. The expected life used in the model has been
adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A corresponding credit is recorded in equity.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Dividends
Dividends are provided for in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Group.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the
revision affects both current and future periods. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the directors
have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised
in financial statements.
Revenue recognition
Interest receivable on pawnbroking loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the percentage of the pawn loans that are
estimated to be redeemed and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts
through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. The estimated future cash receipts are based on 
the historical cash receipts experience (the “Pledge Redemption”) of the business which vary from month to month but have remained
relatively constant overall over the years the business has operated. The Group monitors the Pledge Redemption on a monthly basis.
The Group does not recognise interest income on the pawn loans that are not expected to be redeemed. The Group recognises income
on these loans when the related collateral that supports the loan is disposed of, through either the scrap or retail operations of the
Group. The Group is of the opinion that the revenue earned on the unredeemed pledges is only realised from the Group perspective at
the point at which the stock, or scrap item that the Group obtains from the pledge collateral is disposed of. In arriving at this treatment,
the Group also considers that the transfer value from pawn loans to inventory of the unredeemed pledge collateral cannot exceed the
cost to the Group of the inventory item which is represented by the underlying loan amount provided on the unredeemed pledge item.
Inventories
The majority of the inventory balance is obtained as a result of default by pawn loan customers. The inventory is stated at cost to the
Group, being the amount initially lent on the pawn loan, plus overheads directly related to bringing the inventory to its present location
and condition. The Group does not allocate any interest that would have been earned on the pawn loans to the cost of inventory as
stated above. Accordingly, the profit that arises on the subsequent disposal of the inventory, through either retail or scrap, includes an
element which relates to the appropriation by the Group of collaterals supporting pawn loans that have a higher market value, than
pawn loan amount. 
Dilapidations provisions
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which
impose certain requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group
provides for repairs and maintenance obligations as it becomes aware of any significant amounts that will be required. The Group does
not provide for amounts where the potential exposure cannot be reliably measured and accordingly does not anticipate potential repairs
and maintenance on the portfolio of stores. Additionally, the Group maintains the stores to a high standard and completes any necessary
repairs and maintenance on a timely basis, addressing any events that require expenditure throughout the lease period as and when
required. Such costs are expensed as incurred.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are
discussed below.
Pawnbroking loans interest accrual estimation
The Group recognises interest on pawnbroking loans as disclosed in the Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
section above. The pawn loans interest accrual (‘pledge accrual’) is material to the financial statements and is dependant on the estimate
that the Group makes of the expected level of redeemed pawn loans. The Group estimates the expected redemptions based on the
historical redemption rates achieved. There is a risk that the actual redemption rate may vary significantly from the historical rate used to
estimate the pledge accrual at the balance sheet date. The Directors assess the pledge accrual estimate made at the prior balance sheet
date annually to determine if the actual redemption differs significantly to the previous estimate. No significant differences were noted for
2006 or 2007. The sensitivity of the pledge accrual to reasonable changes in the redemption rate is shown in note 29. 
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Actual events may vary materially from management
expectation. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Fair value of derivatives
The directors use their judgement in selecting an appropriate valuation technique for financial instruments not quoted in an active market.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied. For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made
based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument. This requires estimation of the future interest rates, and also
the appropriate discount rate. Actual events may vary materially from management expectation.
Trade receivables provisioning
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less expected impairment losses. 
The impairment losses on the pledge book only relate to pledges seized by the police and shrinkage. The pledge book items seized by
the police are impaired on an item by item basis since the Group tracks the status of each pledge individually. The shrinkage provision 
is based on an estimate of the pledge book missing at reporting date using historical shrinkage experience.
No other impairment losses are provided on the pledge book since the value of the collaterals is greater than the pledge book nominal
value.
The impairment of Pay Day Advance loans is subject to a portfolio approach, based on an estimate of historical bad debt experience
and expected recoveries.
The impairment of KwikLoan loans is subject to individual assessment based on the number of payments missed. If one payment has been
missed, a third of the remaining balance is impaired, if two payments have been missed, two-third of the remaining balance is impaired
and if three payments or more have been missed, the whole remaining balance is impaired.
With respect to all provisions that are based on estimates, there is a risk that actual losses incurred will vary significantly from
management expectation at the balance sheet date, if historical loss rates are not a good indicator of the actual credit risk profile of 
the year end receivables.
For further details on the provisions and impairment losses, refer to note 29, which show the amounts recorded in the period and the
sensitivity at the balance sheet date to changes in the key assumptions with respect to impairment losses.
Stock provisioning
Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stock or stock shrinkage. The provision for obsolete, slow
moving and damaged stock represents the difference between the cost of the stock and its market value. The stock shrinkage provision 
is based on an estimate of the inventory missing at reporting date using historical shrinkage experience. For further details on the
provisions for inventory, refer to note 7.
Intangible assets – Software
The Directors have reviewed the carrying value of the new EPOS software reported under intangible assets. Although the project is
running behind the original timeline, the project continues to progress and front end transactions can now be performed from start to
finish. Therefore the Directors are confident that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered in full. The project will continue to 
be closely monitored in future periods. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 38
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
5. Revenue 
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Pawnbroking, retail, scrap, cheque cashing and other financial services 38,363 32,115
38,363 32,115
Investment revenue 35 27
35 27
38,398 32,142
Included in the above revenues are the following items of income and gains:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Income
Interest earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 17,375 14,892
Fees earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 5,269 3,864
6. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
For reporting purposes, the Group is currently organised into five segments – Pawnbroking, Retail, Scrap, Cheque cashing and Other
financial services. The principal activities by segment are as follows:
Pawnbroking: 
Pawnbroking is a loan secured against a collateral (the pledge). In the case of the group over 98% of the collaterals against which
amounts are lent is jewellery made of gold and/or diamonds. The pawnbroking contract is a six month credit agreement bearing a
monthly average interest rate of 8%. The contract is governed by the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 2007 (previously the Consumer
Credit Act 2002). If the customer does not redeem the goods by repaying the secured loan before the end of the contract, the Group is
required to dispose of the goods either through public auctions if the value of the pledge is over £75 (disposal proceeds being reported 
in this segment) or, if the value of the pledge is under £75, through public auctions or the Retail or Scrap activities of the Group.
Retail:
The Group’s retail proposition is primarily gold and jewellery and almost all retail sales are forfeited items from the pawnbroking pledge
book or purchased second-hand jewellery. The retail offering is complemented with a small amount of new jewellery. 
Scrap: 
Items that are damaged beyond repair, are slow moving or surplus may be smelted and sold at the current gold spot price less a small
commission.
Cheque cashing: 
This segment comprises two products:
• Third Party Cheque Encashment which is the provision of cash in exchange for a cheque payable to our customer for a commission fee
based on the face value of the cheque.
• Pay Day Advance which is a simple form of credit where the advance is repaid by post dated cheques presented by the customer at
the point of the loan. H&T applies a 13% charge per 30 days on the value of the advance. At the end of the 30 days, the customer
has a choice to either extend the advance for another 30 days, repay the advance or allow the cheques to be deposited in the
Group’s bank account.
Both products are subject to bad debt risk which is reflected in the commissions and fees applied. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
6. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Other financial services:
This segment comprises:
• KwikLoan product which is an unsecured loan repayable over 12 months of up to £750. H&T earns approximately £300 gross
interest on a £500 loan over 12 months.
• The Prepaid debit card product where H&T earns a commission when selling the card or when the customer is topping up their card.
Only the KwikLoan product is subject to bad debt risk which is reflected in the interest rate offered.
Further details on each activity are included in the Chief Executive’s Review of the Business on pages 8 to 13.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below:
Other Consolidated
Cheque financial Year
Pawnbroking Retail Scrap cashing services ended
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2007
Revenue
External sales 17,122 11,024 6,602 3,356 259 38,363
Total revenue 17,122 11,024 6,602 3,356 259 38,363
Segment result 17,122 5,443 1,484 3,356 259 27,664
As disclosed in note 3, Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the
period. Other operating expenses of the stores are included in other direct expenses. The Group is unable to meaningfully allocate the
other direct expenses of operating the stores between segments as the activities are conducted from the same stores, utilising the same
assets and staff. The Group is also unable to meaningfully allocate Group administrative expenses, or financing costs or income between
the segments. Accordingly, the Group is unable to meaningfully disclose an allocation of items included in the income statement below
Gross profit, which represents the reported segment results. 
The Group does not apply any inter-segment charges when items are transferred between the pawnbroking activity and the retail or
scrap activities.
Other Consolidated
Cheque financial Year
Pawnbroking Retail Scrap cashing services ended
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other information
Capital additions (*) ––––– 1,154
Depreciation and amortisation (*) ––––– 1,368
Impairment losses recognised in income 80 – – 1,637 799 2,516
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 32,283 6,182 537 2,089 531 41,622
Unallocated corporate assets 27,157
Consolidated total assets 68,779
Liabilities
Segment liabilities – (149) – (58) (95) (302)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (38,132)
Consolidated total liabilities (38,434)
(*) See overleaf Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 40
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
6. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Other Consolidated
Cheque financial Year
Pawnbroking Retail Scrap cashing services ended
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2006
Revenue
External sales 15,299 9,278 4,731 2,629 178 32,115
Total revenue 15,299 9,278 4,731 2,629 178 32,115
Segment result 15,299 4,250 972 2,629 178 23,328
Other Consolidated
Cheque financial Year
Pawnbroking Retail Scrap cashing services ended
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other information
Capital additions(*) ––––– 1,643
Depreciation and amortisation(*) ––––– 1,358
Impairment losses recognised in income 66 – – 901 4 971
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 28,930 4,180 57 1,273 399 34,839
Unallocated corporate assets 24,644
Consolidated total assets 59,483
Liabilities
Segment liabilities – (143) – (58) (69) (270)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (39,607)
Consolidated total liabilities (39,877)
(*) The Group cannot meaningfully allocate this information by segment due to the fact that all the segments operate from the same stores,
and the assets in use are common to all segments.
Geographical segments
The Group’s operations are located entirely in the United Kingdom and all sales are within the United Kingdom. Accordingly, no further
geographical segments analysis is presented. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
7. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment reported within:
- Other direct expenses 1,075 898
- Administrative expenses 185 256
Amortisation of intangible assets (reported within Other direct expenses) 107 204
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 10,625 8,734
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 74 53
Reversal of write downs of inventories recognised in the period - –
Staff costs (see note 9) 8,756 7,369
Impairment loss recognised on pawnbroking financial assets(*) 2 45
Provision recognised on pawnbroking financial assets(*) 89 78
Impairment loss recognised on cheque cashing financial assets(*) – –
Provision recognised on cheque cashing financial assets(*) 1,758 1,134
Impairment loss recognised on other financial services financial assets(*) 517 –
Provision recognised on other financial services financial assets(*) 261 205
(*) As discussed in note 3, due to the portfolio approach adopted for recognising revenue, these amounts are recorded against revenue
from the related segment to present net revenues as shown in notes 5 and 6.
Although the Group has written off, or provided for some of the financial assets in the current and previous periods, the Group continues 
to seek recovery of these assets. For further analysis on the movements in allowances, and amounts written off, see note 29.
8. Auditors’ remuneration
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit 
of the company’s annual accounts 53 19
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services to the Group
- The audit of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 39 34
Total audit fees 92 53
- Tax services 13 14
- Corporate finance services – 290
- Other services 9 13
Total non-audit fees 22 317
The Company and Group audit fees are borne by a subsidiary undertaking, Harvey & Thompson Limited. Included within the audit fee
attributable to the Company is £25,000 (2006 - £nil) with respect to the IFRS transition of the Group.
The corporate finance fees in 2006 relate to work completed by Deloitte & Touche LLP with respect to the Initial Public Offering of the
shares in the Company on the Alternative Investment Market (‘AIM’) on 8 May 2006. Of these fees, £109,000 (2005 - £nil) was charged
to the share premium account as costs associated directly with the issue of new shares.
Fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because
the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
There were no fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates in respect of associated pension schemes. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 42
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
9. Information regarding directors and employees
Non-executive directors’ emoluments
3 (2006 - 3) non-executive directors receive payments for services rendered to the H&T Group plc group. Their emoluments are included 
in the analysis below. All directors are remunerated through a subsidiary company, Harvey & Thompson Limited.
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments 711 831
Company pension contributions to money purchase schemes 18 16
729 847
All executive directors (2006 - all) participated in Harvey & Thompson Limited’s money purchase pension scheme. In addition, £34,000
(2006 - £8,000) was charged to the income statement in respect of the fair value of the share options granted to the directors under the
different schemes.
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Highest paid director
Aggregate emoluments 274 300
Company pension contributions to money purchase scheme 8 7
In addition, £27,000 (2006 - £5,000) was charged to the income statement in respect of the fair value of the share options granted under
the different schemes.
2007 2006
No. No.
Average number of persons employed (including directors)
Branches 358 305
Administration 49 42
407 347
Staff costs during the year (including directors)
Wages and salaries 7,839 6,580
Social security costs 831 702
Other pension costs 86 87
8,756 7,369
All directors and employees are remunerated through a subsidiary group company, Harvey & Thompson Limited in both the current and
preceding financial year. 
10. Investment revenues
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Interest revenue:
Bank deposits 35 27
Investment revenues earned on financial assets analysed by category of asset, is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Loans and receivables (including cash and bank balances) 35 27
Interest revenue recognised on pawnbroking and other financial services is reported within turnover for the reasons discussed in note 3. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
11. Other gains
During the financial year, the Group disposed of one freehold property (2006 - one). The disposal in 2006 was leased back under an
operating lease. The Group has applied the considerations of IAS 17 to the sale and leaseback transaction and recorded the full profit on
disposal on an historic cost basis. In arriving at this treatment, the Group concluded that the disposal proceeds and subsequent rentals are
at fair market amounts.
The profit on disposal of the freehold properties has been arrived at as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Sale proceeds 260 90
Costs of disposal (22) (24)
Net book value of freehold properties (37) (20)
Profit on disposal reported as an exceptional item 201 46
The capital gains tax payable in respect of the disposal of the property is £52,000 (2006 - £17,000). In both financial years, the Group
has opted to hold over the gains arising on disposal of the freehold properties through reinvestment of the disposal proceeds in qualifying
assets and accordingly the capital gains tax has been deferred, resulting in an increase in the deferred tax liability (note 27).
12. Finance costs
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 2,451 2,684
On other loans – 896
Other interest 11 16
Total interest expense 2,462 3,596
Exceptional items – 801
Amortisation of loan issue costs 244 340
2,706 4,737
The £801,000 exceptional charge in 2006 relates to costs expensed associated with the arrangement fees of the bank loan restructuring
for the reasons discussed in note 25.
The £896,000 interest charge on other loans in 2006 relates to interest payable on loan notes from the previous controlling party, 
The Rutland Fund. Summarised details are provided in note 36. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 44
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
13. Tax 
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Before Before 
Exceptional Exceptional 2007 Exceptional Exceptional 2006 
items items Total items items Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax 
charge/(credit) at 30% (2006 – 30%) 
based on the profit for the year 2,329 – 2,329 1,362 (402) 960
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (2) – (2) (14) (250) (264)
Total current tax 2,327 – 2,327 1,348 (652) 696
Deferred tax
Short term timing differences, origination 
and reversal (136) 52 (84) 71 16 87
Effect of change in tax rate (26) – (26) –––
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 67 – 67 2 250 252
Total deferred tax (note 27) (95) 52 (43) 73 266 339
Tax charge on profit 2,232 52 2,284 1,421 (386) 1,035
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is higher than that resulting from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 
(2006 - 30%). The differences are explained below:
Before Before 
Exceptional Exceptional 2007 Exceptional Exceptional 2006 
items items Total items items Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation 7,162 201 7,363 4,695 (2,658) 2,037
Tax charge/(credit) on profit at standard rate 2,149 60 2,209 1,409 (797) 612
Effects of:
Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income 44 (8) 36 24 395 419
Change in tax rate (26) – (26) –––
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of 
previous periods 65 – 65 (12) 16 4
Total actual amount of current tax charge 2,232 52 2,284 1,421 (386) 1,035
From April 2008, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK will decrease from 30% to 28%. This new rate has been used to calculate
any deferred tax expected on timing differences that are expected to reverse in a period when the new rate applies. 
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, £401,000 of tax relief available to the Group arising on share options
exercised in 2006 was credited directly to accumulated profits in the year ended 31 December 2006.  Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
14. Exceptional items
The Group considers certain items to be non-recurring exceptional items, and accordingly, they are presented as such in accordance with
the Group accounting policy in note 3.
As disclosed in note 11, during the financial year the Group disposed of one freehold property (2006 – one) making an exceptional 
profit of £201,000 (2006: £46,000). 
In 2006, the Group incurred £3,382,000 of expenses relating to the Initial Public Offer and its debt restructuring. £801,000 was incurred
for the restructuring of its debt as detailed in note 25 and was expensed directly to the income statement (note 12). £678,000 was directly
allocated to the issue of new shares and written off to the share premium account. The balance of £1,903,000 was expensed to the income
statement. The effect on taxation for the year arising from these exceptional items was a tax credit of £386,000.
15. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares. With respect to the Group these represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less
than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
The directors also present an adjusted earnings per share as the directors consider that it reflects the Group results on a comparable
basis once non-recurring items are taken into consideration. All the adjustments made to the non-adjusted earnings per share in arriving 
at adjusted earnings per share are for exceptional items disclosed separately on the face of the consolidated income statement. Other than
for the adjusting items, the calculation is the same as for the statutory per share amounts.
Reconciliations of the earnings per ordinary share and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Weighted Weighted
average Per-share average Per-share 
Earnings number of amount Earnings number of amount
£’000 shares pence £’000 shares pence
Earnings per share basic 5,079 33,487,898 15.17 1,002 27,489,310 3.65
Effect of dilutive securities
Options – 64,573 (0.03) – 388 –
Earnings per share diluted 5,079 33,552,471 15.14 1,002 27,489,698 3.65
Earnings per share - basic 5,079 33,487,898 15.17 1,002 27,489,310 3.65
IPO costs ––– 1,903 – 6.92
Fixed assets disposal (201) – (0.60) (46) –   (0.17)
Debt issue costs ––– 801 – 2.91
Tax adjustment 52 – 0.15 (386) –     (1.40)
Adjusted earnings per share - basic 4,930 33,487,898 14.72 3,274 27,489,310 11.91
Effect of dilutive securities
Options – 64,573 (0.03) – 388 –
Adjusted earnings per share - diluted 4,930 33,552,471 14.69 3,274 27,489,698 11.91 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 46
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
16. Dividends
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 3.0p 
(2005 - nil p) per share 945 –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 1.6p 
(2006 - nil p) per share 562 –
1,507 –
Amounts proposed and not recognised:
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 3.4p
(2006 - 3.0p) per share. 1,196 945
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly, has not been included
as a liability in these financial statements.
17. Goodwill
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on
arising on trade and
purchase asset Total
of subsidiaries purchases Goodwill
£’000 £’000 £’000
Cost and carrying amount
At 1 January 2006 14,133 213 14,346
Recognised on acquisition of trade and assets (note 32) – 553 553
At 1 January 2007 14,133 766 14,899
Recognised on acquisition of trade and assets (note 32) – 1,516 1,516
At 31 December 2007 14,133 2,282 16,415
There are no recognised impairment losses at either 1 January 2006, 1 January 2007 or 31 December 2007 and accordingly, the
carrying amount of goodwill is the purchase cost. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
17. Goodwill (continued)
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated as follows:
Harvey & Thompson Ltd 14,133 14,133
Stores acquired in 2005 213 213
Stores acquired in 2006 553 553
Stores acquired in 2007 1,516 –
16,415 14,899
The Harvey & Thompson Ltd CGU was created when H&T Group plc acquired Harvey & Thompson Ltd in September 2004. Management 
is unable to allocate this goodwill by store and accordingly, tests this for impairment at the subsidiary entity level, adjusted for the recoverable
amount of CGU’s acquired after September 2004. All assets acquired after September 2004 are reviewed for impairment at the related store
level. The stores are grouped for financial reporting purposes by year of acquisition to facilitate presentation and comparability on a year by
year basis. Additionally, store performance is monitored by management based on the year of acquisition as the historic performance of an
individual store is linked to its acquisition date. This approach is reflected in the way Management has defined the above CGUs.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations
are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to direct costs during the period. Management estimates
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. 
The growth rates are based on historical growth forecasts. Changes in direct costs are based on expectations of costs inflation.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years
and extrapolates cash flows for the following ten years based on an estimated growth rate of 4.5 per cent. This rate does not exceed the
average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. The fifteen year period for the store CGUs is used to reflect the minimum duration
over which Management expects to operate the store. The same duration is used for the Harvey & Thompson Limited CGU since the
business comprises of a portfolio of stores where a single store is the smallest CGU. 
The rate used to discount all the forecast cash flows is 17.5%. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 48
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
18. Other intangible assets
Customer
Software relationships Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2006 1,044 – 1,044
Additions 706 – 706
Acquired on acquisition of trade and assets (note 32) – 163 163
At 1 January 2007 1,750 163 1,913
Additions 242 – 242
Acquired on acquisition of trade and assets (note 32) – 541 541
At 31 December 2007 1,992 704 2,696
Amortisation
At 1 January 2006 905 – 905
Charge for the year 195 9 204
At 1 January 2007 1,100 9 1,109
Charge for the year 23 84 107
At 31 December 2007 1,123 93 1,216
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2007 869 611 1,480
At 31 December 2006 650 154 804
The £869,000 (2006 - £650,000) software carrying value includes £855,000 (2006 - £624,000) in respect of the new EPOS software
in the course of development (note 4).
The customer relationships intangible assets arise from the acquisition of trade and assets of sole partnerships or limited companies with
no audited accounts and reflect the repeat business associated with the pawnbroking and pay day advance industry from existing
customers at the acquisition date of the relevant assets. 
The amortisation period for customer relationship intangible assets is between 6 and 8 years and the amortisation period for software
intangible assets is 7 years. These amortisation periods reflect the directors’ best estimate of the estimated useful economic lives of these
intangible assets. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
19. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold Short
land and leasehold Motor Computer Fixtures
buildings premises vehicles equipment and fittings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2006 87 6,359 215 1,797 2,596 11,054
Additions – 1,194 – 325 124 1,643
Reclassified as held for sale (60) –––– (60)
Disposals (27) – (126) – – (153)
At 1 January 2007 – 7,553 89 2,122 2,720 12,484
Additions – 1,326 – 407 196 1,929
Acquisition of trade and assets (note 32) – 44 – – 6 50
Disposals – – (89) – – (89)
At 31 December 2007 – 8,923 – 2,529 2,922 14,374
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2006 29 3,210 111 1,378 1,322 6,050
Charge for the year       2 756 34 138 224 1,154
On assets reclassified as held for sale (23) –––– (23)
Eliminated on disposals (8) – (85) – – (93)
At 1 January 2007 – 3,966 60 1,516 1,546 7,088
Charge for the year – 829 7 206 218 1,260
Disposals – – (67) – – (67)
At 31 December 2007 – 4,795 – 1,722 1,764 8,281
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2007 – 4,128 – 807 1,158 6,093
At 31 December 2006 – 3,587 29 606 1,174 5,396
Capital commitments for tangible and intangible assets are disclosed in note 34. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 50
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
20. Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest 
is given in note C to the Company’s separate financial statements.
21. Inventories
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Retail stock 6,720 4,237
The retail stock consists of over 99% of gold and jewellery items. The remaining balance is miscellaneous items (mostly electrical goods
and art pieces) which were previously held as pledge collaterals and subsequently forfeited. 
22. Trade and other receivables 
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 30,522 26,786
Other debtors 58 122
Pledge accrued income 4,475 3,818
Prepayments and other accrued income 1,050 1,143
36,105 31,869
Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of allowances for bad and doubtful debts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,966 2,108
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Further details on financial instruments, including the associated risks to the Group and allowances for bad and doubtful debts and fair
values, is provided in note 29. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51
23. Assets held for sale
During 2006, the Group decided to dispose of a freehold property in London and a buyer was found in October 2006. The lawyers were
instructed at that time and the sale completed in February 2007 resulting in a profit on disposal of £201,000 as disclosed in note 11. 
The property was vacated before 31 December 2006.
In accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” the Group reclassified the property as assets
held for sale. The £37,000 value is stated at the lower of the previous fixed asset carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The
property was also subject to an impairment review prior to its reclassification as on available for sale asset and at 31 December 2006
with no adjustment arising.
24. Trade and other payables
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Trade creditors 839 1,233
Other taxation and social security costs 243 181
Accruals and deferred income 2,240 2,096
3,322 3,510
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit 
period taken for trade purchases is 29 days (2006 – 27 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the
first 30 days from the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The Group
has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Corporation tax 1,193 88 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 52
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
25. Borrowings
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Secured borrowing at amortised cost
Bank loans 34,151 36,851
Unamortised issue costs (734) (979)
33,417 35,872
Total borrowings
Short term portion of bank loan 2,000 1,500
Unamortised issue costs (234) (245)
Amount due for settlement within one year 1,766 1,255
Long term portion of bank loan 32,151 35,351
Unamortised issue costs (500) (734)
Amount due for settlement after more than one year 31,651 34,617
All borrowings are denominated in UK sterling pounds.
The bank borrowings of the Group are available under agreements which provide various loan facilities as follows:
Facility A - The Facility A Loan, repayable in instalments up to 11 May 2011 (2006 –11 May 2011), has an interest rate of LIBOR plus a
margin of not more than 1.65% (2006 – 1.65%). A margin rachet, offering reduced interest rates, may come into force from 31 December
2008 depending on the Group meeting ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement. The lowest facility A margin achievable is LIBOR plus
1.50% (2006 – 1.50%). As at 31 December 2007, the balance on the Facility A Loan, including short-term, was £13,000,000 
(2006 - £14,500,000). 
Facility B - The Facility B Loan has an interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.40% (2006 – 1.40%). A margin rachet, offering reduced interest
rates, may come into force from 31 December 2008 depending on the Group meeting ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement. 
The lowest facility B margin achievable is LIBOR plus 1.25%. This loan is secured on the pledge book of Harvey & Thompson Limited, one
of the group’s subsidiary undertakings. The Facility B loan is repayable by 11 May 2011 (2006 – 11 May 2011). The available facility is
increased from 11 May 2009 by £1,000,000 to £27,000,000, provided that the facility does not exceed £27,000,000 and the working
capital facility (noted below) is reduced by £1,000,000. As at 31 December 2007, the balance on the Facility B Loan was £20,500,000
(2006 - £21,700,000).
Facility C - The Facility C Loan has an interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.65% (2006 – 1.65%). A margin rachet, offering reduced
interest rates, may come into force from 31 December 2008 depending on the Group meeting ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
The lowest facility C margin achievable is LIBOR plus 1.50%. The Facility C Loan is repayable by 11 May 2011 (2006 – 11 May 2011).
As at 31 December 2007, the balance on the Facility C Loan was £651,000 (2006 - £651,000).  Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53
25. Borrowings (continued)
Working capital facility - The working capital facility has not been utilised by the Group. The working capital facility has an interest 
of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.65% (2006 – 1.65%). A margin rachet, offering reduced interest rates, may come into force from 
31 December 2008 depending on the Group meeting ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement. The lowest facility B margin 
achievable is LIBOR plus 1.50%. The working capital facility loan is repayable by 11 May 2011 (2006 – 11 May 2011). The facility 
is automatically reduced by £1m from 11 May 2009. 
Interest due on the loans is payable at each interest period end. Interest amounts outstanding at the year end are included in accruals.
All loans, with the exception of the Facility B Loan which is additionally secured on the pledge book of Harvey & Thompson Limited, are
secured with a floating charge over the remaining assets of the companies in the H&T Group plc group.
Deferred debt issue costs
The movement in the deferred debt issue costs of £244,000 represents the amortisation of the debt issue costs brought forward as at 
31 December 2006. 
Undrawn borrowing facilities
At 31 December 2007, the Group had available £8,100,000 (2006: £4,500,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect
of which all conditions precedent had been met.
Banking arrangements restructuring in 2006
The Group restructured its banking arrangements at the time of the H&T Group plc initial public offering (‘IPO’) in May 2006, resulting 
in combined facilities of up to £47,000,000 being an increase on the previous banking facilities which totalled £37,200,000. The Group
did not consider the change as new debt but as a restructuring of its existing facilities and accordingly the arrangement and associated
fees incurred of £801,000 were expensed in the year ended 31 December 2006. Additionally, immediately prior to the IPO the Group
had borrowings from the then controlling party, The Rutland Fund, in the form of a loan note. The Rutland Fund loan note accrued interest
at the rate of 15% per annum, which under certain circumstances rolled up into the principal loan amount. Both the loan note principal of
£14,500,000 and the interest were unsecured and repayable by 8 September 2011. The proceeds to the Group from the IPO were used
to repay in full the £18,300,000 balance of The Rutland Fund loans note representing the initial loan plus interest accrued to the date of
payment. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
26. Derivative financial instruments
Current
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Interest rate swap - (liability)/asset (18) 133
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in the note 29.
27. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and
prior year.
Short term Derivative
Fixed assets Hold over timing Share based financial
differences capital gain differences payment instruments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2006 323 – (127) – (128) 68
(Credit)/charge to income (13) – (69) – 168 86
Prior year adjustment (5) 250 8 – – 253
At 1 January 2007 305 250 (188) – 40 407
Prior year adjustment 59 8 – – – 67
(Credit)/charge to income (29) 56 (54) (10) (46) (83)
Effect of change in tax rate– income statement (22) (20) 15 – 1 (26)
As 31 December 2007 313 294 (227) (10) (5) 365
Deferred tax assets and liabilities all relate to the same tax jurisdiction and taxable entities, and are expected to reverse over the same 
time periods. Accordingly, these have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial
reporting purposes:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities 607 595
Deferred tax assets (242) (188)
365 407 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
28. Provisions
Dilapidation
provision
£’000
At 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2007 –
Provision created in the year through income statement 119
At 31 December 2007 119
The dilapidation provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to maintain certain of the properties contracted
under lease agreements. At the reporting date no demand to enforce the dilapidation contractual obligations has been made by the 
related property landlords.
29. Financial instruments
Significant accounting policies and classification of financial instruments
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument
are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements. Further details on critical accounting judgments and estimation uncertainty are in details
in note 4. 
Categories of financial instruments
Based on the application of the accounting policies with respect to financial instruments, the amounts included in the relevant balance 
sheet line items represent the following categories of financial instruments, as defined in IAS 39:
At 31 December 2007
Fair value Financial
through liabilities at
profit and Loans and amortised
loss (*) receivables cost Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables – 30,522 – 30,522
Pledge accrued income – 4,475 – 4,475
Other assets –58 – 58
Cash and cash equivalents – 1,966 – 1,966
Total financial assets – 37,021 – 37,021
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – – 2,183 2,183
Borrowings due within one year – – 2,000 2,000
Borrowings due after one year – – 32,152 32,152
Derivative financial instrument 18 – – 18
Total financial liabilities 18 – 36,335 36,353 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 56
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
29. Financial instruments (continued)
At 31 December 2006
Fair value Financial
through liabilities at
profit and Loans and amortised
loss (*) receivables cost Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables – 26,786 – 26,786
Pledge accrued income – 3,818 – 3,818
Other assets – 122 – 122
Cash and cash equivalents – 2,108 – 2,108
Derivative financial instrument 133 – – 133
Total financial assets 133 32,834 – 32,967
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – – 2,570 2,570
Borrowings due within one year – – 1,500 1,500
Borrowings due after one year – – 35,351 35,351
Total financial liabilities – – 39,421 39,421
(*)Fair value through profit and loss represents a derivative interest rate swap, classified as held for trading under IAS 39. The Group has
not designated any other assets or liabilities as fair value through profit or loss.
Classes of financial assets and liabilities
The Group further analyses the categories of financial assets and liabilities as defined in IAS 39, into classes of financial assets and
liabilities as defined in IFRS 7. The book values of these classes and fair values are as follows:
Book values Book values Fair value Fair value
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Pawnbroking 32,283 28,930 35,218 31,153
Cheque cashing 2,089 1,272 2,089 1,272
Other financial services 531 402 531 402
Unallocated 2,060 2,363 2,060 2,363
Total financial assets 37,021 32,967 39,898 35,068
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Borrowings 34,169 36,851 34,169 36,851
Short term operating liabilities 2,183 2,570 2,183 2,570
Total financial liabilities 36,352 39,421 36,352 39,421 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Fair value
The assumptions used by the Group to estimate the current fair values are summarised below:
(i) For the Pawnbroking class, the fair value has been calculated by adding:
• The principal outstanding on pawn loans; 
• The interest receivable accrued using the effective interest rate method; and
• The proportion of the profit on scrap for the loans on which the Group does not recognise interest due to the uncertainty 
of recovery of the interest, apportioned over the pledge contract. 
(ii) For Cheque cashing, Other financial services and Unallocated classes, the book value approximates to fair value because of their 
short maturities, fixed or floating interest rates which reflect market rates, and the provisions recorded for losses at the balance sheet
dates where relevant.
(iii) For the derivative financial instruments, the fair value has been calculated by discounting the future estimated cash flows based on the
applicable yield curve derived from quoted interest rates.
(iv) For Borrowings and Short term operating liabilities classes due within one year, the book value approximates to fair value because 
of their short maturities and interest rates where applicable. None of the Short term operating liabilities are interest bearing. The
borrowings are all held at floating interest rates which approximate market rates, and accordingly, the book value and fair value 
are the same.
(v) For the Borrowings due after one year, the fair value has been calculated by discounting the future cash flows estimated and
discounted based on the applicable yield curve derived from quoted interest rates. The borrowings are all held at floating interest 
rates which approximate market rates, and accordingly, the book value and fair value are the same.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the financial instruments held. The principal risks include credit risk (on
financial assets), liquidity risk (on financial liability Borrowings and Other financial liabilities) and interest rate risk (on financial liability
Borrowings). The risks are analysed by each class of financial assets and liabilities in the section below.
Generally the Group is not exposed to price risk, as the majority of its jewellery and all of its scrap gold are obtained through 
unredeemed pledges, which have a cost to the Group which is lower than resale value. The Group is exposed to adverse movements 
in the price of gold in its gold scrap activities. The Group considers this risk to be limited due to the current high margin on scrap gold.
Should the price of gold drop significantly, the Group can mitigate this risk by reducing its lending policy on pawnbroking pledges or by
entering gold hedging instruments.
Additionally, the Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk on the financial assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, as these 
are lent at fixed rates, which reflect current market rates for similar types of secured or unsecured lending.
Cash and cash equivalents are exposed to interest rate risk as they are held at floating rates, although the risk is not significant as the
interest receivable is not significant.
Pawnbroking financial asset class 
The pawnbroking financial asset class is exposed to three principal risks:
• credit risk;
• the risk of a change in pawnbroking loan redemption; and
• the risk of changes in the price of gold. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 58
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Pawnbroking financial asset class (continued)
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk primarily through:
(i) default on the loan amounts (forfeits).
Additionally, the Group is exposed to risk in recovery of the loan amounts, which is considered to be similar to credit risk, due to:
(ii) assets being pledged as security against loans, which are subsequently seized by the police; 
(iii) assets being pledged as security against loans being stolen or lost, resulting in the borrower being relieved of the liability to the Group.
The Group mitigates these risks by applying strict lending criteria, which are continually reviewed and monitored at both shop and at
board level. 
A principal aspect of the pawn contract is the requirement for the borrower to provide collateral (the pledge) which remains in the
possession of the Group, in secure safes, while the pawn loan is outstanding. The Group has the right to dispose of the pledged items 
in the event of default by the borrower. The pledge book is accordingly secured over the goods pledged. The value of the pledge items
(which is in excess of the pawn loan in all instances where the Group lending policy is applied), the legal title that the Group can enforce
on these items, and their ongoing security are vital to the Group to ensure that the credit risk is mitigated to an acceptable level.
Due to the significance of the pledged item as security for the Group with respect to the recovery of the amounts lent, the Group applies
strict criteria at the point of lending to assessing both the customer requiring the pawn loan, and the value of the pledge item. The Group
has set criteria for lending based on the assessed value of the item pledged, which takes into account the various aspects of the pledge.
Over 98% of the pledged items are gold and jewellery. Some of the key attributes of the pledge are therefore the metal it is made of, the
presence of precious or semi precious stones and the appearance and condition of the item. This high percentage lending on marketable
items, which are available under certain circumstances to the Group for onwards disposition through either the Group’s retail or scrap
operations (see below), provides significant security to the pawnbroking financial assets. 
The Group maintains the customer’s title to the goods pledged through strict criteria. In order to pledge an item, the customer needs to be
registered for which a proof of address is required. All the transactions are also captured through CCTV. The Group also encourages good
relationships with local police forces.
The pawn contract is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 2007, which specifies the rights and obligations of both the Group and the
borrower with respect to the collateral provided and default on the loan. The Group continually reviews the pawn contract to ensure that 
it complies with the relevant legislation and provides sufficient protection to the Group.
The Group also retains all pledged items in locked safes at each store and maintains sophisticated security systems. The staff handling 
the pledged items are also carefully screened and trained by the Group prior to commencing employment and then on an ongoing basis. 
Finally, the Group maintains an internal audit department, staffed by auditors with significant experience in the pawnbroking industry, 
to monitor compliance with the Group policies, and in particular to monitor the existence and security of the pledge items, the value of the
pledge items compared to the pledge loan, the legal compliance of the pledge contracts and the compliance of the stores with the Group
lending policies. The internal audit department reports directly to the finance director and the Chairman of the audit committee.
In the event of default by the borrower, the Group is required by the Consumer Credit Act to dispose of the items differently, depending 
on whether the loan value is less than or greater than £75:
(i) If the value of the loan is £75 or under, the goods become the property of the Group immediately. The goods are then either
auctioned, retailed through the Group outlets or scrapped, with profits reported in either the Retail or Scrap segments as applicable.
(ii) If the value of the loan is over £75, the goods are sent to public auction. The goods are then either sold at auction or bought back 
by the Group. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 59
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Pawnbroking financial asset class (continued)
Credit risk
In the absence of either over-lending on the pledge item, loss of the pledge item, or police seizure of the item, the Group realises at least
the value of the pledge loan immediately, with additional profits recorded upon sale or scrapping of the item. The value that the Group 
can realise is measured by the excess of the fair value of the collaterals, which is estimated at £33,970,000 (2006: £30,032,000) over
the book value of the pledge book and associated accrued interest which amounts to £32,288,000 (2006: £28,930,000).
The pawnbroking assets are disclosed net of the provision for bad and doubtful debts associated to these financial assets. As a result of 
the strong controls surrounding the pledge collateral, the Group has limited exposure to losses arising from the loan default, police seizure,
or loss of pledged items. This is reflected in the movement in the bad and doubtful debts provision for pawnbroking assets, an analysis of
which is as follows:
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2006 21
Net income statement 78
Written off (21)
Balance at 31 December 2006 78
Net income statement charge 89
Written off (78)
Balance at 31 December 2007 89
The Group has fully provided for all amounts lent on pledges which are either held by the police, or have been notified to the Group 
by the police as frozen assets. 
The ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
0 - 90 days 4,496 4,098
Over 90 days 1,519 1,062
Total 6,015 5,160
The Group has not provided for the £6,015,000 (2006 - £5,160,000) contractually overdue receivables (i.e. loans where the pawn
agreement has terminated but the customer has not redeemed the assets) at the reporting date since the realisable value of the collaterals
held is greater than the carrying value of the pledge loan as disclosed above. The Group does not start the disposition process of the
unredeemed pledges for around 3 months after the end of the credit agreement since it is commercial practice to allow additional time 
for the customers to come and redeem their pledged items, for an additional fee.  
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £32,341,000 (2006 - £28,930,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts
offset and any impairment losses. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 60
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Pawnbroking financial asset class (continued)
Risk of a change in pawnbroking loan redemption
As disclosed under the significant accounting policies (note 3), the interest receivable on loans is recognised as interest accrues by
reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable. As explained under critical accounting judgements and
sources of estimation uncertainty (note 4), the estimated future cash receipts are based on the historical cash receipts experience (the
“Pledge Redemption”) of the business which vary from month to month. Accordingly, the Group is subject to risks associated with the
variability in the redemption rate on the amount of interest which is accrued on the pledge book, and with the amount of accrued interest
included in the pawnbroking financial assets.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to changes in the pledge redemption rate assuming the pledge
book outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1% increase or decrease is used when reporting pledge
redemption rate sensitivity risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the monetary impact of
the change in pledge redemption rates.
1% 1%
decrease in increase in
redemption redemption
rate rate
£’000 £’000
At 31 December 2007
Total impact on income statement gain/(loss) (58) 58
Impact on equity gain/(loss) (41) 41
At 31 December 2006
Total impact on income statement gain/(loss) (32) 32
Impact on equity gain/(loss) (23) 23
The above impact on income statement would be partly offset by an increase or decrease in profits made on disposition of the forfeited
items, although this may be in a different financial reporting period.
Risk of changes in the price of gold 
The collateral which protects the Group from credit risk on non-redemption of pawn loans is 98% comprised of gold and jewellery items.
The value of these items as security is directly linked to the price of gold. The Group is therefore exposed to adverse movements in the
price of gold on the value of the security that would be attributable for sale in the event of default by the borrower. The Group considers
this risk to be limited for a number of reasons. First of all, the Group applies conservative lending policies in pawnbroking pledges
reflected in the margin made on scrap gold when contracts forfeit. The value of gold for our customers is also much greater than the price
of gold since jewellery items contain a retail margin. The Group is also protected due to the short term value of pawn contract (6 months).
In the event of a significant drop in the price of gold, the Group could mitigate this risk by reducing its lending policy on pawnbroking
pledges or by entering gold hedging instruments. Management monitors the gold price on a constant basis. Based on the price of gold on
5 March 2008, the Group estimates that a 50% fall in the price of gold would be required for the pledge collateral to no longer support
the value of the pawn loans and associated accrued interest. The directors are of the opinion that a decrease of this magnitude is highly
unlikely. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Cheque cashing financial asset class 
This class represents amounts recoverable by the Group through cheques that are already in the possession of the Group. The Cheque
cashing financial asset class is exposed primarily to the credit risk through default on the loan amounts for Pay Day Advance or default
from the drawer for Third Party Cheque Encashment. This credit risk is mitigated at the outset of the lending agreement by the strict
application of the Group lending policies, including credit checks, the legal security provided by the assignment of cheques to the Group,
and the staff recruitment and training policies referred to above. The Group monitors the ongoing risk associated with this class of financial
assets through a continual review of bad debts, modifications to the lending policy, and the internal audit activities referred to above
ensure that the Group policy is consistently applied. In the event of default by the customer, the Group has also developed a debt collection
department to recover any cheque cashing debt. 
Cheque cashing receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is as follows:
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2006 (*) 8
Net income statement charge 1,134
Written off (901)
Balance at 31 December 2006 241
Net income statement charge 1,758
Written off (1,637)
Balance at 31 December 2007 362
(*) At 1 January 2006 the Group had limited exposure to bad debts and losses on these activities as the risk was passed on to a third
party provider for a fee. Since 1 January 2006, the Group has brought the full Third Party Cheque Encashment and Pay Day Advance
product offerings in house.
The Group had no overdue receivables at the reporting date (2006: £nil). Trade receivables not overdue are provided for based on
estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. 
The class of financial assets is stated net of estimated irrecoverable amounts. Accordingly, the carrying value is dependant on the Group
assessment of the expected level of bad debts in the financial assets at the balance sheet date. The sensitivity analysis below has been
determined based on the exposure to changes in the percentage of bad debt as a function of amounts lent, assuming the Pay Day
Advance book outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 2% increase or decrease in bad debt is used
when reporting credit risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the monetary impact of the
change in the percentage of bad debts.
2% 2%
decrease in increase in
bad debts bad debts
£’000 £’000
At 31 December 2007
Total pre tax impact on income statement gain/(loss) 49 (49)
Pre tax impact on equity gain/(loss) 35 (35)
At 31 December 2006
Total pre tax impact on income statement gain/(loss) 30 (30)
Pre tax impact on equity gain/(loss) 22 (22)
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £2,089,000 (2006: £1,272,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts
offset and any impairment losses. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 62
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Other Financial services financial asset class 
This class represents primarily unsecured loans receivable. This class is exposed primarily to the credit risk through default on the loan
amounts for the KwikLoan product. This credit risk is mitigated at the outset of the lending agreement by the strict application of the Group
lending policies, including credit checks, and the staff recruitment and training policies referred to above. The Group monitors the ongoing
risk associated with this class of financial assets through a continual review of bad debts, modifications to the lending policy, and the
internal audit activities referred to above to ensure that the Group policy is consistently applied. The Group also uses its Cheque cashing
debt collection department to recover any KwikLoan debt.
Other Financial services receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is as follows:
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2006 77
Net income statement charge 205
Written off 
Balance at 31 December 2006 282
Net income statement charge 261
Written off (282)
Balance at 31 December 2007 261
The Group has provided fully for all receivables overdue. Trade receivables not overdue are also provided for on an individual basis
determined by reference to past default experience.
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £531,000 (2006: £402,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts offset
and any impairment losses.
Unallocated financial asset class 
The Unallocated financial asset class comprises mainly cash and cash equivalents. Of the £2,060,000 balance at 31 December 2007 
(31 December 2006: £2,241,000), cash and cash equivalents amounted to £1,966,000 (2006: £2,108,000). The remainder of the
balance is considered immaterial.
The cash and cash equivalents balance comprises both bank balances and cash floats at the stores. The bank balances are subject to 
very limited credit risk as they are held with banking institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. 
The cash floats are subject to risks similar to any retailer, namely of theft or loss by employees or third parties. These risks are mitigated 
by the security systems, policies and procedures that the Group operates at each store, the Group recruitment and training policies and 
the internal audit function.  Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Borrowings financial liability class 
The Borrowings financial liability class is exposed to three principal risks:
• interest rate risk; 
• credit risk; and
• liquidity risk
Interest rate risk
The Group is funded based on a combination of equity and bank borrowings. The bank borrowings are all held at floating rates based 
on LIBOR. Accordingly the Group is exposed to interest rate risk through changes in the LIBOR rate. 
The Group mitigates exposure to this interest rate risk through the use of financial derivatives instruments in a floating to fixed interest rate
swap, arranged through Barclays Bank Plc. This instrument fixes the LIBOR element of the interest cost of a portion of the bank loans to
5.315% (2006 - 5.315%). The agreement terminates on 30 June 2009. The instrument covers £35,000,000 (2006 - £35,000,000) of 
the loan balances. The fair value of the instrument at 31 December 2007 is £18,199 payable (2006 - £133,000 receivable). The Group
anticipates that it will be able to obtain a similar instrument at applicable market rates when this agreement terminates.
As required by IAS 39, the Group measures the interest rate swap at fair value at each balance sheet date. The Group does not apply
hedge accounting. Accordingly, while the Group mitigates cash flow interest rate risk through the instrument, it is exposed to fair value risk
on the revaluation of the instrument. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both
derivatives and non-derivatives instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the
amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when
reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible
change in interest rates.
0.5% 0.5%
decrease in increase in
interest interest
rates rates
£’000 £’000
At 31 December 2007
Finance costs: (loss)/gain (4) 4
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap (loss)/gain (204) 306
Total pre tax impact on income statement (loss)/gain (208) 310
Pre tax impact on equity (loss)/gain (150) 223
At 31 December 2006
Finance costs: gain/(loss) 9(9)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap (loss)/gain (328) 500
Total pre tax impact on income statement (loss)/gain (319) 491
Pre tax impact on equity (loss)/gain (224) 344
The impact of a change in interest rate has no material impact on finance costs due to the interest rate swap which covers the majority of
the loan balances. The principal movements reflect the movement in fair value of the interest rate swap. Management intends to retain the
interest rate swap to maturity. Accordingly, the positive or adverse movements on the fair value of the hedging instrument will offset over
the life of the instrument, though this may be in different financial reporting periods. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 64
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Borrowings financial liability class (continued)
Credit risk
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because of the high credit-ratings assigned by international
credit-rating agencies to the Group’s bankers.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is £18,000 for the derivatives (2006 – asset £133,000), being the fair value of the
derivative at the year end.
Liquidity risk
The Group has significant borrowings exposing it to liquidity risk in both repayment of borrowings and availability of finance. In order 
to mitigate this risk, the Group uses a mixture of short-term and long-term debt finance with banking institutions with high credit-ratings
assigned by international credit-rating agencies. The current borrowings are disclosed in detail in note 25, which shows that the Group 
has arrangements in place to ensure sufficient funding is in place until 2011 under the current agreements. At 31 December 2007, the
Group also has available £8,100,000 (2006: £4,500,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions
precedent had been met. This level of headroom is considered sufficient to finance operations. Furthermore the business generated a
positive cash flow from operating activities in 2007 (the 2006 year is non-comparable due to the different funding structure as explained 
in note 25), and has discretion in its expansion programme should the Group need to improve short term cash flow. 
The Group is in full compliance with all loan covenants. 
The maturity analysis of the cash flows arising from total borrowings and associated derivative financial instruments is as follows:
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 Over 4
1 year years years years years Total
Payments due by period £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2006
Floating rate borrowings 4,030 4,415 4,244 4,550 29,788 47,027
Interest rate derivative financial (assets) (55) (59) (21) – – (135)
Total 3,975 4,356 4,223 4,550 29,788 46,892
At 31 December 2007
Floating rate borrowings 4,309 3,973 4,383 29,730 – 42,395
Interest rate derivative financial (assets)/liabilities (34) 96 – – – 62
Total 4,275 4,069 4,383 29,730 – 42,457
The amounts reported above for floating rate borrowings include the principal amount of borrowings as well as the interest payable 
on these borrowings. The floating rates used to predict the interest cash flows are based on the relevant LIBOR yield curve derived from
quoted interest rates. The above amounts are contractual, undiscounted cash flows. Due to the interest rate swap in place, increases or
decreases in projected interest payable arising from changes in interest rates are virtually fully offset by compensating movements in the
cash flows arising from the interest rate swap. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65
29. Financial instrument (continued)
Short term operating liabilities financial liability class 
The short term operating liabilities - financial liability class is not exposed to any significant risk. Liquidity risk is considered to be minimal
due to the availability of borrowings as discussed above and the positive cash flow from operations.
The maturity analysis of the short term operating liabilities financial liability class is as follows:
Less than Over 
30 days 30 days Total
Payments due by period £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2006 1,184 1,386 2,570
At 31 December 2007 823 1,360 2,183
30. Share capital
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Authorised
41,970,000 (2006 - 41,970,000) ordinary shares of £0.05 each 2,099 2,099
Issued and fully paid 
35,085,706 (2006 – 31,485,706) ordinary shares of £0.05 each 1,754 1,574
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
3,600,000 new ordinary shares were issued, called up and fully paid at the placing price of £2.04 per share on 16 May 2007. 
Of the proceeds received of £7,344,000, £180,000 has been recorded in share capital and £7,164,000 in the share premium account.
£282,000 was incurred in expenses directly related to the issue of these shares, which has been expensed to the share premium account.
Options over shares of the Company are disclosed in note 31. Under these share option arrangements, there are 789,837 
(2006 – 450,824) shares which can be issued by the directors.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes
the borrowings disclosed in note 25, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued
capital, reserves and retained earnings. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 66
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
30. Share capital (continued)
Gearing ratio
The Group reviewed its gearing ratio determined as the proportion of net debt to equity at the time of its flotation in May 2006 and
considered it as appropriate. Although the Group reviews its gearing ratio at each reporting date, no specific target has been fixed 
by management.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Debt 34,151 33,417
Cash and cash equivalents (1,966) (2,108)
Net debt 32,185 31,309
Equity 30,345 19,606
Net debt to equity ratio 106% 160%
Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 25.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Company.
Externally imposed capital requirement
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
31. Share based payments
As at 31 December 2007, the Group operated two share award schemes. The charge for the year in respect of both schemes was:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
A. Approved Share Option Scheme 45 8
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme 60 11
105 19
A. Approved Share Option Scheme (‘ASOS’)
The Approved Share Option Scheme is a share option scheme approved by HMRC where favourable tax treatment is received on exercise.
The options may be granted to all management from Shop Manager to Executive Director level. The Remuneration Committee sets the
performance conditions.
The performance conditions applied were: 
• In 2007 that an option may not be exercisable unless the growth in adjusted basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) of the Company reaches
3% above the General Index of Retail Prices.
• In 2006 that an option may not be exercisable unless the Group reached the yearly EBITDA budget target set for the financial year. 
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment over a three year period from the date of grant. Early exercise of the options 
is permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67
31. Share based payments (continued)
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows:
Exercise price Number of Earliest date
Grant date pence shares of exercise Expiry date
ASOS 2006 September 2006 182.5 178,995 8/09/2009 7/09/2016
ASOS 2007 May 2007 217.5 152,792 17/05/2010 16/05/2017
Options were valued using a Binomial option pricing model. The inputs into the model used by the Group to estimate the fair value of the
options awarded are as follows:
2007 2006
Fair value at measurement date 68.10 pence 58.33 pence
Weighted average share price 217.5 pence 182.5 pence
Weighted average exercise price 217.5 pence 182.5 pence
Expected volatility 31.0% 30.6%
Expected life 6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate 4.82% 4.34%
Expected dividends 2.5% 2.2%
In 2006, the expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of a similar sized competitor in the
industry over the previous four years. The directors considered that the competitor company which has been on the Alternative Investment
Market (AIM) for a number of years was the best measure of volatility based on its similar size and business activities. In 2007, the
expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the Group, since there is now sufficient data
post the IPO to complete this calculation. The expected life used in the model for both years has been adjusted, based on management’s
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The average remaining contractual life is 9.1 years.
A reconciliation of option movements for the ASOS is set out below:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share price share price
options (in pence) options in pence
Outstanding at beginning of period 178,995 182.5 ––
Granted during the period 152,792 217.5 178,995 182.5
Forfeited during the period (53,283) 192.1 ––
Exercised during the period –– ––
Expired during the period –– ––
Outstanding at the end of the period 278,504 199.86 178,995 182.5
Exercisable at the end of the period 1,299 182.5 ––
Awards under the scheme totals a maximum of 278,504 shares (2006 – 178,995 shares) and represents a dilution of shares in issue 
of 0.79% (2006 – 0.57%). Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
31. Share based payments (continued)
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme (‘USOS’)
The Unapproved Share Option Scheme is a discretionary option scheme under which the Remuneration Committee may grant options to all
Executive Directors and Senior Management of the Group. The Remuneration Committee sets the performance conditions.
The performance conditions were: 
• In 2007 that an option may not be exercisable unless the growth over 3 years in adjusted basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) of the
Company reaches on average at least 8%. It applies to 25% of the options granted.
• In 2007 that an option may not be exercisable unless the growth over 3 years in adjusted basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) of the
Company reaches on average at least 10%. It applies to 25% of the options granted.
• In 2007 that an option may not be exercisable unless the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over 3 years exceeds the FTSE AIM 100
performance. It applies to 50% of the options granted.
• In 2006 that an option may not be exercisable unless the Group reached the yearly EBITDA budget target set for the financial year. 
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment over a three year period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the options
is permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company.
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
Exercise price Number of Earliest date
Grant date pence shares of exercise Expiry date
USOS 2006 September 2006 182.5 271,829 8/09/2009 7/09/2016
USOS 2007 May 2007 217.5 239,504 17/05/2010 16/05/2017
Options were valued using a Binomial option pricing model for USOS 2006 and USOS 2007 where non-market vesting conditions
applied and a Monte Carlo simulation model for USOS 2007 where market vesting conditions applied. The inputs into both models used
by the Group to estimate the fair value of the options awarded are as follows:
2007 2006
Fair value at measurement date
Non-TSR criteria 68.10 pence 58.33 pence
TSR criteria 53.80 pence –
Weighted average share price 217.5 pence 182.5 pence
Weighted average exercise price 217.5 pence 182.5 pence
Expected volatility 31.0% 30.6%
Expected life 6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate 4.82% 4.34%
Expected dividends 2.5% 2.2%
In 2006, the expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of a similar sized competitor in the
industry over the previous four years. The directors considered that the competitor company which has been on the Alternative Investment
Market (AIM) for a number of years was the best measure of volatility based on its similar size and business activities. In 2007, the
expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the Group, since there is now sufficient data
post the IPO to complete this calculation. The expected life used in the model for both years has been adjusted, based on management’s
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The average remaining contractual life is 9.1 years. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69
31. Share based payments (continued)
A reconciliation of option movements for the USOS is set out below:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share price share price
options (in pence) options in pence
Outstanding at beginning of period 271,829 182.5 ––
Granted during the period 239,503 217.5 271,829 182.5
Forfeited during the period –– ––
Exercised during the period –– ––
Expired during the period –– ––
Outstanding at the end of the period 511,332 198.9 271,829 182.5
Exercisable at the end of the period –– ––
Awards under the scheme totals a maximum of 511,332 shares (2006 – 271,829 shares) and represents a dilution of shares in issue 
of 1.46% (2006 – 0.86%).
32. Acquisition of trade and assets
The following acquisitions were made during the year:
Total Total
Acq 1 Acq 2 Acq 3 Acq 4 Acq 5 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets acquired:
Property, Plant and Equipment 15 – 35 – – 50 –
Intangible assets (note 18) 174 73 65 152 77 541 163
Retail stock 281 – 129 – – 410 –
Debtors 289 142 216 258 128 1,033 297
Cash 18 – 20 11 2 51 7
Total assets acquired 777 215 465 421 207 2,085 467
Consideration:
Cash 1,160 236 1,192 542 471 3,601 1,020
Total consideration 1,160 236 1,192 542 471 3,601 1,020
Goodwill (note 17) 383 21 727 121 264 1,516 553
Net cash outflow on acquisition:
Cash consideration 3,601 1,020
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (51) (7)
3,550 1,013 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 70
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
32. Acquisition of trade and assets (continued)
Acquisition 1: Cleveland Gold Limited
On 8 May 2007, the Company reached agreement to acquire the trade and assets of an independent pawnbroker and cheque cashing
agent. The directors consider the book values to be the fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible assets which
have been identified as part of the acquisition. Other than the consideration paid, there are no material cash flows relating to the
acquisition.
Acquisition 2: Harvey Stevens T/A Alan Paul Pawn Brokers
On 11 May 2007, the Company reached agreement to acquire the pledge book of an independent pawnbroker. The directors consider
the book values to be the fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible assets which have been identified as part 
of the acquisition. There are no material cash flows relating to the acquisition.
Acquisition 3: Tynemace Limited, Hillbrand Limited & Jewellery Limited
On 20 August 2007, the Company reached agreement to acquire the trade and assets of a small chain of four stores, predominantly cheque
cashing businesses. The directors consider the book values to be the fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible
assets which have been identified as part of the acquisition. Other than the consideration paid, there are no material cash flows relating 
to the acquisition.
Acquisition 4: Joseph Arthur Jackson T/A “Jenours”
On 24 September 2007, the Company reached agreement to acquire the trade and assets of an independent pawnbroker and cheque
cashing agent. The directors consider the book values to be the fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible assets
which have been identified as part of the acquisition. Other than the consideration paid, there are no material cash flows relating to the
acquisition
Acquisition 5: Nadeem Osman & VFM Goldcraft Limited
On 3 October 2007, the Company reached agreement to acquire the trade and assets of an independent pawnbroker and cheque
cashing agent. The directors consider the book values to be the fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible assets
which have been identified as part of the acquisition. Other than the consideration paid, there are no material cash flows relating to the
acquisition.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of all the trade and assets presented above is attributable primarily to the anticipated increased
profitability of the acquired shares arising from:
• the introduction of all the Group’s products;
• the growth in existing products driven by the Group’s expertise, know–how, financial resources and systems; and
• the anticipated central cost savings to operate the businesses within the Group rather than as stand alone businesses.
Accordingly, staff who were employed by the relevant business have been retained in some instances, representing a saving to the Group
in recruitment and training costs.
The above acquisitions contributed in total £600,000 revenue and £200,000 to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the
date of each acquisition and the balance sheet date. No individual acquisition was material and accordingly, an analysis by acquisition 
is not presented.
The Group cannot estimate the revenue and profit or loss of the Group had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial
year since no reliable historical financial information is available. The trade and assets acquired are operated through either sole
partnerships or limited companies with no audited accounts. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71
33. Operating lease arrangements
The group as lessee 
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases 
recognised as an expense in the year 2,252 1,897
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating
leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and buildings         Other
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year 2,313 1,970 42 38
In the second to fifth years inclusive 7,885 6,647 36 61
After five years 11,331 10,060 – –
21,529 18,677 78 99
Significant operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for rental of store premises. Leases are normally negotiated
for an average term of 10 years at the then prevailing market rate.
The Group also sublets some of the premises above the stores, the outstanding receipts from which are immaterial.
34. Capital commitments   
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for but not provided in the accounts amounts to £508,000 (2006 - £672,000).
This commitment relates to the development and licencing costs of the new electronic point of sale system (EPOS) which is scheduled for
delivery and implementation in 2008. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
35. Notes to the cash flow statement
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Profit for the year 5,079 1,002
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (35) (27)
Other gains and losses (201) (46)
Finance costs 2,706 4,737
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 151 (561)
Movement in provisions 119 –
Income tax expense 2,284 1,035
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,260 1,154
Amortisation of intangible assets 107 204
Share-based payment expense 105 19
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (8) (12)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 11,567 7,505
Increase in inventories (2,073) (734)
Increase in receivables (3,203) (298)
Increase in payables 39 1,152
Cash generated from operations 6,330 7,625
Income taxes paid (1,221) (291)
Debt restructuring cost – (801)
Interest paid (2,462) (6,787)
Net cash from/(used by) operating activities 2,647 (254)
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and
other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Interest paid in 2006 includes £3,191,000 of interest that arose in previous periods, and was added to the principal amount of
borrowings at 1 January 2006 (note 25). Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73
36. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
disclosed in this note.  
Transactions with directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Report and note 9. Other material related party transactions are set out below:
Transactions in the year: 2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Related party Nature of transaction Fair value Fair value
Rutland Partners LLP Management fees. – 41
The Rutland Fund Interest payable on loan notes – 896
The Rutland Fund Interest and loan notes repayment – 18,322
A Lilley Purchase of 200,000 5p ordinary shares on – 334*
8 May 2006 in H&T Group plc at par value, 
being the exercise price, from the ultimate 
controlling party, The Rutland Fund, under the 
2004 share option scheme. The share price 
on the date of exercise was 172p.
A Lilley 35,399 options granted under the 2007 share – –
option schemes (2006: 40,958 options under 
the 2006 share options schemes). The options 
under both schemes have been granted at an 
exercise price equal to the market value at the 
date of the option been granted.
P Cartright Purchase of 26,385 5p ordinary shares in – –
H&T Group plc from The Rutland Fund at 
market price of 172p per share on 8 May 2006 
when H&T Group plc listed on AIM.
B Slatter Purchase of 11,628 5p ordinary shares in – –
H&T Group plc from The Rutland Fund at 
market price of 172p per share on 8 May 2006 
when H&T Group plc listed on AIM.
Rutland Partners LLP was a related party by virtue of the relationship disclosed in note 25 until 8 May 2006.
The Rutland Fund was a related party by virtue of the relationship disclosed in note 25 until 8 May 2006.
P Cartright and B Slatter are related parties by virtue of their directorships in 2006 in the Company.
A Lilley is considered to be a member of key management personnel. 
*Represents the gain arising on exercise of the share options. No expense has been recorded with respect to these share options under
IFRS2 since the charge was immaterial. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
36. Related party transactions (continued)
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors of Harvey & Thompson Limited, the trading subsidiary, who are the key management personnel of the
Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits 813 946
Pension contributions 21 20
Termination benefits – 7
Share-based payments 40 9
874 982
37. First time adoption of IFRS
As discussed in note 2, the Group adopted IFRS as required by Rule 19 of the AIM rules. The transition date to IFRS is 1 January 2006.
Additionally the Group revised its accounting policy with respect to the absorption of overheads into stock, and expanded the income
statement disclosure with respect to administrative expenses and other direct cost expenses.
The Group reported on 1 August 2007 on the transition to IFRS from UK GAAP as previously applied by the Group and the restatement
arising from the change in accounting policy for stock. There have been no amendments to that information which is reported below as 
at 1 January 2006, 31 December 2006 and for the year ended 31 December 2007 with respect to the balance sheet and income
statements other than for the increased disclosure with respect to administrative expenses and other direct expenses and the reclassification
to retained earnings of the share option revenue at 31 December 2006 of £19,000. Additionally, the Group reports no significant impact
of the transition on the cash flows of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007.
For presentation purposes, the Group has condensed the disclosure provided in the transition document issued on 1 August 2007, in the
following sections. Note 37(a) provides a numerical reconciliation of the balance sheet at 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006, and
the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 from UK GAAP to IFRS. Note 37(b) provides a description of the nature of
the IFRS adjustments, as referenced in note 37(a). Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75
37. First adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(a) Numerical reconciliations
Reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRS consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2006 (date of transition)
Change in
accounting
policy for IFRS
IFRS UK GAAP IFRS stock balance
Standard (IFRS format) adjustments (see note 2) sheet 
(refer to note 37 (b)) £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14,346 – – 14,346
Other intangible assets IAS 38 – 139 – 139
Property, plant and equipment IAS 38, IFRS 5 (i) 5,144 (160) – 4,984
19,490 (21) – 19,469
Current assets
Inventories 3,373 – 130 3,503
Trade and other receivables IAS 39 (ii) 31,526 (252) – 31,274
Cash and cash equivalents 1,434 – – 1,434
Assets held for sale IFRS 5 – 21 – 21
36,333 (231) 130 36,232
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables IAS 17 (2,514) (109) – (2,623)
Current tax liabilities (73) – (39) (112)
Borrowings (982) – – (982)
Derivative financial instruments IAS 39(iii) – (428) – (428)
(3,569) (537) (39) (4,145)
Net current assets 32,764 (768) 91 32,087
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (50,990) – – (50,990)
Deferred tax liabilities (iv) (133) 65 – (68)
(51,123) 65 – (51,058)
Net assets 1,131 (724) 91 498
Equity
Share capital and share premium 1,000 – – 1,000
Retained earnings (v) 131 (724) 91 (502)
Total equity 1,131 (724) 91 498
(i) Includes IAS 38: £(139)k and IFRS 5: £(21)k
(ii) Includes IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £(252)k
(iii) Includes IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £(428)k
(iv) Includes IAS 12: £(172)k, IAS 17: £33k, IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £76k, IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £128k 
(v) Includes IAS 12: £(172)k, IAS 17: £(76)k, IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £(176)k, IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £(300)k Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
37. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(a) Numerical reconciliations (continued)
Reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRS consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2006
Change in
accounting
policy for IFRS
IFRS UK GAAP IFRS stock balance
Standard (IFRS format) adjustments (see note 2) sheet 
(refer to note 37 (b)) £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill IFRS 3(i) 14,283 616 – 14,899
Other intangible assets IAS 38, IFRS 3(ii) – 804 – 804
Property, plant and equipment IAS 38, IFRS 5 (iii) 6,083 (687) – 5,396
20,366 733 – 21,099
Current assets
Inventories 4,070 – 167 4,237
Trade and other receivables IAS 39(iv) 32,136 (267) – 31,869
Cash and cash equivalent 2,108 – – 2,108
Derivative financial instruments IAS 39 (v) – 133 – 133
Assets held for sale IFRS 5 – 37 – 37
38,314 (97) 167 38,384
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables IAS 17 (3,416) (94) – (3,510)
Current tax liabilities (38) – (50) (88)
Borrowings (1,255) – – (1,255)
(4,709) (94) (50) (4,853)
Net current assets 33,605 (191) 117 33,531
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (34,617) – – (34,617)
Deferred tax liabilities (vi) (351) (56) – (407)    
(34,968) (56) – (35,024)
Net assets 19,003 486 117 19,606
Equity
Share capital and share premium 18,686 – – 18,686
Share option reserve (vii) 19 (19) – –
Retained earnings (viii) 298 505 117 920
Total equity 19,003 486 117 19,606
(i) Includes IFRS 3 Business combination reversal of goodwill: £779k and IFRS 3: £(163)k Business combination reclassification to intangible assets
(ii) Includes IAS 38 Capitalised software: £650k, IAS 38 Intangible assets amortisation: £(9)k, IFRS 3: £163k
(iii) Includes IAS 38 Capitalised software: £(650)k, and IFRS 3: £(37)k
(iv) Includes IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £(267)k
(v) Includes IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £133k
(vi) Includes IAS 12: £(124)k, IAS 17: £28k, IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition £80k and IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value £(40)k
(vii) Includes the reclassification of the share options reserve to retained earnings.
(viii) Includes IAS 12: £(124)k, IAS 17: £(66)k, IAS 38: £(9)k, IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition £(187)k and IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £93k, IFRS 3
Business combination reversal of goodwill: £779k and reclassification of the share options reserve to accumulated profits. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77
37. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(a) Numerical reconciliations (continued)
Reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRS income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006
Change in
accounting
policy for IFRS
IFRS UK GAAP IFRS stock balance
Standard (IFRS format) adjustments (see note 2) sheet 
(refer to note 37 (b)) £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue IAS 39 (i) 32,130 (15) – 32,115
Cost of sales (8,454) – (333) (8,787)
Gross profit 23,676 (15) (333) 23,328
Other direct expenses (ii) (13,999) 785 370 (12,844)
Administrative expenses (4,344) – – (4,344)
Operating profit 5,333 770 37 6,140
Investment revenues 27 – – 27
Other gains and losses 46 – – 46
Finance costs (4,737) – – (4,737)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap IAS 39 (iii) – 561 – 561
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 669 1,331 37 2,037
Tax charge on profit (iv) (903) (121) (11) (1,035)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (234) 1,210 26 1,002
(i) Includes IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £(15)k
(ii) Includes IAS 17: £15k, IAS 38: £(9)k and IFRS 3 Business combination reversal of goodwill: £779k
(iii) Includes IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £561k
(iv) Includes IAS 12: £48k, IAS 17: £(5)k, IAS 39 Interest receivable recognition: £4k and IAS 39 Interest hedging fair value: £(168)k Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
37. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(b) Description of the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Group
The significant changes as a result of the transition to IFRS and of adopting the IFRS Group accounting policies are described below. 
In addition to these changes there are a number of other assets and liabilities that are classified differently under IFRS. These
reclassifications have been reflected in the numerical reconciliation in the opening columns of UK GAAP (IFRS format).
IAS 12 “Income Taxes”
General
IAS 12 takes a balance sheet approach to deferred tax whereby deferred tax is recognised in the balance sheet by applying the
appropriate tax rate to the temporary differences arising between the carrying value of the assets and liabilities and their tax base. 
This contrasts with UK GAAP (FRS 19) which considered timing differences arising in the profit and loss account.
Where the IFRS adjustments discussed in this document create a difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and the
related tax base, and there are no initial recognition exemptions available under IAS 12, the Group has recorded a deferred tax liability
or asset as required. 
Deferred tax on business combinations
IAS 12 requires that deferred tax is provided in full on differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities acquired in a
business combination and the related tax base, regardless of whether the business combination is accounted for under IFRS 3. In the
specific case of business combinations, the initial recognition exemption available under IAS 12 not to recognise deferred tax on
transactions which at the time of the transaction do not affect accounting profit or taxable profit is not available.
H&T Group plc acquired Harvey & Thomson Limited, in September 2004 in a transaction which was a business combination. Harvey &
Thomson Limited had at that date certain assets which did not qualify for tax deduction (non qualifying assets). Under UK GAAP these 
non qualifying assets do not result in a timing difference on which deferred tax is provided. Additionally, under IAS 12, in the normal
course of events, the initial recognition exemption referred to above is available on these non qualifying assets. 
The Group has provided for deferred tax on the full difference between the carrying amount of these assets acquired by the Group in
September 2004 and their tax base of £nil. The impact of this change for the Group has been an increase to profit after taxation of
£48,000 in the year to December 2006, a reduction in net assets of £172,000 in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006, 
and a reduction in net assets at 31 December 2006 of £124,000.
IAS 17 “Leases”
Lease incentives
Under UK GAAP the benefit of all incentives granted at the outset of a lease was taken over the period to the first rent review (when the
rent was expected to be reset to market rates), typically 5 years for the Group. IAS 17 requires the benefit of all incentives granted at the
outset of a lease to be spread over the term of the lease. When compared with the UK GAAP treatment, this has the effect of increasing
the rental charge in the early part of a lease and reducing the charge in the latter part of the lease. Over the whole lease term the total
charge remains the same. 
The impact of this change for the Group has been an increase to operating profits of £15,000 in the year to December 2006, a reduction
in pre-tax net assets of £109,000 in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006 and a reduction in pre-tax net assets of £94,000 at 
31 December 2006. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79
37. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(b) Description of the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Group (continued)
IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”
Capitalised software
Under UK GAAP, all capitalised software development costs are included within tangible fixed assets. IAS 38 requires that where such
costs are not an integral part of the associated hardware, they should be classified as intangible assets. Accordingly, certain items of
property, plant and equipment have been reclassified to intangible assets at each reference date where they are items of software that
meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38.
There is no net impact on the income statement as a result of this reclassification, however, there has been a reclassification of the amounts
recorded as depreciation on these assets to amortisation charges. The impact on the balance sheets are an increase in Intangible Assets
and matching decrease in Property, plant and equipment of £650,000 at 31 December 2006 and £139,000 in the opening balance
sheet at 1 January 2006.
Intangible assets amortisation
The Group has recognised additional intangible assets under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”, as discussed below. IAS 38 requires that
amortisation is provided where an intangible asset has a finite life. The adjustment arising from this is discussed below in IFRS 3 “Business
Combinations”.
IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”
Interest receivable recognition
Under UK GAAP, interest receivable on pawnbroking contracts is recognised on an accruals basis by reference to the contract interest rate
and the percentage of pledge balances that are expected to be redeemed. IAS 39 requires interest to be recognised using the effective
interest rate method (“EIR”) on this financial instrument which has been classed as a ‘loans and receivables’ balance. This requirement is
also present in IAS 18 “Revenue” with respect to all interest income. The EIR is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial
asset and of allocating the interest income over the life of the loan to produce a constant rate on the outstanding balance. When 
compared with the UK GAAP treatment, the effect is to reduce the income recognised in the earlier periods of the pledge agreement and
increase the interest income in the latter periods. The total interest received remains unchanged. 
The impact of this change for the Group has been a reduction to operating profits of £15,000 in the year to December 2006, a reduction
in pre-tax net assets of £252,000 in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006 and a reduction in pre-tax net assets at 
31 December 2006 of £267,000.
Interest hedging fair value
IAS 39 requires all derivatives, including interest rate hedges, to be initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value. The
Group has an interest rate swap agreement in place covering £35,000,000 of the loan balances at 31 December 2006 (£31,147,000 
at 1 January 2006). The Group has not adopted the hedging provisions of IAS 39 and accordingly, changes in fair value are taken to the
income statement in the period in which they arise.
The impact of this change for the Group has been an increase in pre-tax profits of £561,000 in the year to December 2006, a reduction
in pre-tax net assets of £428,000 in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006 and an increase in pre-tax net assets of £133,000 at
31 December 2006. Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
37. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
37(b) Description of the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Group (continued)
IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”
Business combinations: Reversal of goodwill amortisation
Under UK GAAP, the Company recognised goodwill as the difference between the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and the fair
value of consideration paid on all acquisitions of trade and assets and subsidiary companies. Goodwill was amortised over its useful
economic life, generally being 20 years.
IFRS 3 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill. The standard requires goodwill to be carried at cost with impairment reviews both annually
and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Accordingly, amortisation charged in the financial year ended 31 December 2006 has been reversed, increasing operating profit by
£779,000 for the year to 31 December 2006. Additionally, the accumulated amortisation at the transition date has been eliminated
against the cost of goodwill. Further adjustments have been made to the goodwill balance resulting from the application of IFRS 3 to
business acquisitions after the transition date as detailed below.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the
Group income statement and is not subsequently reversed. In accordance with IFRS 1 and IAS 36, an impairment review on all assets was
duly carried out at the transition date and subsequently in September 2006 and no impairment loss was recognised.
Business combinations: Intangible assets
The Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the date of transition and has chosen not to restate previous business
combinations.
For qualifying business combinations, goodwill under IFRS 3 represents the excess of consideration over the fair values of acquired assets
(including any separately identifiable and measurable intangible assets), liabilities and contingent liabilities. In the period subsequent to 
1 January 2006, the Group made various acquisitions of trade and assets through one of its subsidiaries, Harvey & Thompson Limited. 
The Group has assessed these business combinations under IFRS 3 and identified intangible assets relating to recurring customer
relationships which have been reclassified from goodwill to intangible assets. The impact on the balance sheets are an increase 
in Intangible Assets and matching decrease in Goodwill of £163,000 at 31 December 2006 and £nil at 1 January 2006. 
As required under IAS 38, these intangible assets are amortised over their finite lives (considered to be between 6 and 8 years) and
subject to impairment reviews annually and before the end of the accounting period in which they were acquired.
The impact of this change for the Group has been a reduction to operating profits of £9,000 in the year to December 2006 and £nil in
pre-tax net assets in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006.
IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations”
Assets held for disposal
Under UK GAAP, non current assets held for sale are reported as fixed assets until their disposal and are carried at depreciated historic
cost.
Under IFRS, non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a 
sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset 
(or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must also be committed to the sale which should
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
After classification as held for sale, the non-current assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell 
and they are also subject to an impairment review prior to classification as available for sale and subsequently at each reporting date.
The Group disposed of various freehold properties during the year ended 31 December 2006 and subsequently in February 2007. 
The Group has applied the provisions of IFRS 5 to these disposals at each reporting date and reclassified the properties as assets available
for sale from the date at which the criteria listed above were met.
There is no impact of this change for the Group on the income statement in the year to December 2006 and there is no change in net
assets in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2006. Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81
38. Events after the balance sheet date
38 (a) Acquisitions
On 11 February 2008, the Group reached agreement to acquire the trade and assets of an independent pawnbroker and cheque cashing
agent. The directors consider the book values to be the provisional fair value of those assets acquired other than for certain intangible assets
which have been identified as part of the acquisition. Other than the consideration paid, there are no material cash flows relating to the
acquisition.
£’000
Assets acquired:
Property, Plant and Equipment 15
Intangible assets 80
Retail stock 261
Debtors 137
Cash 7
Total assets acquired 500
Consideration:
Cash 551
Total consideration 551
Goodwill 51
38 (b) Dividends
The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 3.4p (note 16). Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 82
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
H&T Group plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of H&T Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the
company balance sheet and the related notes A to F. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of H&T Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether
in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements. The information given in the Directors’
Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review of the Business and the
Finance Director’s Report that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited parent company financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of 
the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and its loss for the year then ended;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Crawley, United Kingdom
18 March 2008 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83
Note 2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments C – –
– –
Current assets
Debtors D 32,367 28,587
Cash at bank and in hand 1 –
32,368 28,587
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year E (21) (1,694)
Net current assets 32,347 26,893
Total assets less current liabilities 32,347 26,893
Net assets 32,347 26,893
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital F 1,754 1,574
Share premium account 23,994 17,112
Share option account – 19
Profit and loss account 6,599 8,188
Total shareholders’ funds 32,347 26,893
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2008.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
J G Nichols
Chief Executive
Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2007 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 84
Company combined reconciliation of movements in
shareholders’ funds and statement of movement on reserves
Year ended 31 December 2007
Share Share Profit
Share premium option and loss 2007 2006
capital account account account Total Total
Company Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 1,574 17,112 19 8,188 26,893 1,000
Reclassified to profit and loss account – – (19) 19 – –
(Loss)/profit for the financial year – – – (206) (206) 8,188
Dividend paid – – – (1,507) (1,507) –
Issue of share capital F 180 7,164 – – 7,344 18,364
Share issue expenses – (282) – – (282) (678)
Share option credit taken directly to equity – – – 105 105 19
At 31 December 1,754 23,994 – 6,599 32,347 26,893 Accounts 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85
A. Accounting policies
The Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. They have all
been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding financial year.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Taxation
Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Where tax losses are surrendered to, or received from, group companies,
the amount received/surrendered is charged/credited to the profit and loss account and treated as payable to/receivable from the
related group party that has surrendered /received the losses.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at
the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Group’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial
statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are
recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is
measured on a non-discounted basis. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings are recorded in the profit and loss account on the date that the dividend becomes 
a binding liability on the subsidiary company. Under the terms of FRS 6 ‘Acquisitions and mergers’, the Company records dividends
arising from pre-acquisition profit and loss reserves of its subsidiary undertaking in the profit and loss account and considers whether
the distribution affects the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary undertaking.
Dividends payable are recorded as a distribution from retained earnings in the period in which they become a binding liability on the
Company.
Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8, ‘Related Party Disclosures’, available to subsidiary
undertakings, 90 per cent or more of whose voting rights are controlled within the group, not to disclose transactions with entities that
are part of the group headed by H&T Group plc or investees of the group qualifying as related parties. 
There are no other related party transactions of the Company that require disclosure.
Cash flow statement
The Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of H&T Group plc, which are publicly available. Consequently, 
under the terms of FRS 1, ‘Cash Flow Statements’, the Company has not prepared a cash flow statement.
Notes to the company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2007 Accounts
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 86
Notes to the company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2007
B. Company profit and loss account
No profit and loss account is presented for the parent company pursuant to section 230 of Companies Act 1985.
The Company received £nil dividends from a subsidiary undertaking (2006 - £10,000,000).
The Company made a loss after taxation of £206,000 in 2007 (2006 - £8,188,000 profit).
The auditors’ remuneration for the current and preceding financial years is borne by a subsidiary undertaking, Harvey & Thompson
Limited as disclosed in note 8 to the Group financial statements.
No emoluments were paid to the directors by the Company (2006 – £nil). The directors were paid by Harvey & Thompson Limited, 
a subsidiary company of H&T Group plc. Other than the directors, the Company has no employees in either financial year.
C. Investment
Company
Total
Shares in Group undertakings £
Cost
At 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 1
The investments in Group companies which are all included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Country of Proportion of ordinary
Name of company incorporation shares held: Principal activity
Directly Indirectly
H&T Finance Limited Great Britain 100% – Management of finance
Harvey & Thompson Limited Great Britain – 100% Pawnbroking, jewellery sales, unsecured 
lending, cheque cashing and related 
services
The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiary undertakings.
D. Debtors
Company Company
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 32,331 28,563
Prepayments and accrued income 36 24
32,367 28,587
E. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Company Company
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies – 1,674
Accruals and deferred income 21 20
21 1,694
F. Share capital and movements in reserves
Please refer to the consolidated financial statements of H & T Group plc for details of share capital including shares issued in the year
(note 30), dividends paid and proposed (note 16). Store Directory 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87
Ayr
114 High Street, KA7 1PQ
Tel: 01292 619 867
Barking
27 East Street, IG11 8ER
Tel: 020 8594 6100
Basildon
1a Market Pavement, SS14 1DD
Tel: 01268 281 223 
Birkenhead
The Grange Shopping Centre               
26 Borough Pavement, CH41 2XX
Tel: 0151 647 5053
Birmingham
10 Ethel Street, B2 4BG
Tel: 0121 632 5166
Blackburn
29 Penny Street, BB1 6HQ
Tel: 01254 667 660
Blackpool
97-99 Central Drive, FY1 5EE
Tel: 01253 622 039
Bolton
13 Newport Street, BL1 1NE
Tel: 01204 385 530
Bootle
Unit 115, Strand Shopping Centre, L20 4SU
Tel: 0151 933 7438
Bow
575 Roman Road, E3 5EL
Tel: 020 8983 9553 
Bradford
26 James Street, BD1 3PZ
Tel: 01274 390 675
Brighton
4 Castle Square, BN1 1EG
Tel: 01273 326 061
Burnt Oak
75 Burnt Oak Broadway, HA8 5EP
Tel: 020 8952 2523
Catford
58 Rushey Green, SE6 4JD
Tel: 020 8690 3549
Chalk Farm
36 Chalk Farm Road, NW1 8AJ
Tel: 020 7485 2668
Chatham
321 High Street, ME4 4BN
Tel: 01634 811 811
Clapham
9 Northcote Road, SW11 1NG
Tel: 020 7228 3807
Clapton
157 Clapton Common, E5 9AE
Tel: 020 8809 1488
Clydebank
Unit 29-31, In Shops Shopping Centre, 
36 Sylvania Way South, G81 1EA
Tel: 0141 951 2085
Corby
19 Corporation Street, NN17 1NG
Tel: 01536 402 886
Coventry
10a Hales Street, CV1 1JD
Tel: 02476 256 220
Crawley
11 Broadwalk, Northgate, RH10 1HJ
Tel: 01293 618 270
Dagenham
299 Heathway, RM9 5AQ
Tel: 020 8592 8848
Dalston
52 Kingsland High St., E8 2JP
Tel: 020 7254 1788
Deptford
72 Deptford High Street, SE8 4RT
Tel: 020 8692 3092
Doncaster
CPJ, 23 High Street, DN1 1DW
Tel: 01302 812 099
Dudley
215 Wolverhampton St., DY1 1EF
Tel: 01384 238 577
Dundee
116 Seagate, DD1 2ET
Tel: 01382 205 213
Durham
The Cheque Shop, 69 North Road, 
DH1 4SQ
Tel: 0191 374 1813
Easterhouse
Unit 19, Shandwick Sq. Shop C. 
Bogbain Rd, G34 9DT
Tel: 0141 771 8796
East Kilbride
10 Princes Mall, G74 1LB
Tel: 01355 232 520
Edinburgh
106 Lauriston Place, EH3 9HX
Tel: 0131 229 4448
Ellesmere Port
43 Marina Drive, 
Port Arcades Shopping Ctr, CH65 0AN
Tel: 0151 357 3176
Finsbury
259-261 Seven Sisters Road, N4 2DD
Tel: 020 7272 9249
Fulham
224 Northend Road, W14 9NU
Tel: 020 7385 3188
Gillingham
169 High Street, ME7 1AQ
Tel: 01634 855 053
Glasgow
9-11 Bath Street, G2 1HY
Tel: 0141 332 5637
Govan
595 Govan Road, G51 2AS
Tel: 0141 445 1567
Gravesend
21 King Street, DA12 2EB
Tel: 01474 363 611
Greenock
Unit 3 Hamilton Gate, 
Oakmall Shopping Ctr, PA15 1JW
Tel: 01475 726 616
Hammersmith
134 King Street, W6 0QU
Tel: 020 8563 8585
Hastings
18 Queens Road, Hastings, TN34 1QY
Tel: 01424 430 190
Hounslow
30 High Street, TW3 1NW
Tel: 020 8570 4626
Ilford
91-93 Cranbrook Road, IG1 4PG
Tel: 020 8514 3334
Irvine
1/3 Bridgegate, KA12 8BJ
Tel: 01294 273 823 
Kirkby
Unit 67, In Shops Shopping Centre, 
L32 8US
Tel: 0151 546 6622
Store Directory Store Directory
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 88
Kirkcaldy
85 High Street, Kirkcaldy, Fife, KY1 1LN
Tel: 01592 262 554
Leicester
69 Market Place, LE1 5EL
Tel: 0116 262 4566
Leyton
281 High Road, E10 5QN
Tel: 020 8539 8332
Liverpool
Unit 6, 42-46 Whitechapel, L1 6EF
Tel: 0151 709 2151
Livingston
Unit 22, Almondvale Shopping Centre,
EH54 6HR
Tel: 01506 431 779
Luton
174 The Arndale Centre, LU1 2TL
Tel: 01582 486 711
Macclesfield
23 Chestergate, SK11 6BX
Tel: 01625 430 699
Newcastle
16 Newgate Shopping Centre, NE1 5RB
Tel: 0191 232 6908
Paddington
63 Praed Street, W2 1NS 
Tel: 020 7723 5736
Partick
333 Dumbarton Road, G11 6AL
Tel: 0141 334 1258
Peckham
51 High Street, SE15 5EB
Tel: 020 7703 4547
Poplar
22 Market Way, E14 6AH
Tel: 020 7987 1596
Portsmouth
Jenours, 186 Kingston Road, PO2 7LP
Tel: 02392 421 742
Rotherham
CPJ, 81a Wellgate, S60 2NB
Tel: 01709 720 614
Rugby
1 Church Street, CV21 3PH
Tel: 01788 577 110
Runcorn
Unit 119, Halton Lea Shopping Ctr, 
WA7 2BX
Tel: 01928 796 318
Rutherglen
Unit 3, Mitchell Arcade, 
Rutherglen Shop C., G73 2LS
Tel: 0141 647 6040
Salford
70 Fitzgerald Way, Salford Shopping C.,
M6 5HW
Tel: 0161 745 7949 
Sheffield
The Kiosk, 1-13 Angel Street, S3 8LN
Tel: 0114 276 9281
Slough
64 High Street, SL1 1EL
Tel: 01753 693 303
Springburn
Unit 13, Springburn Shop C, 
Springburn Way, G21 1TS
Tel: 0141 558 7569
Stockport
109 Princes Street, SK1 1RW
Tel: 0161 476 5860
St. Helens 
4 Ormskirk Street, WA10 1BH
Tel: 01744 610 331
Streatham
254 Streatham High Rd, SW16 1HT
Tel: 020 8677 4508
Stretford
Unit 44, Ground Floor Brody Street Mall,
Streford Mall Shopping Centre, M32 9BB
Tel: 0161 865 4930
Surrey Quays
196 Lower Road, SE16 2UN
Tel: 020 7231 6177
Sutton
246 High Street, SM1 1PA
Tel: 020 8642 2115
Tooting
63 Mitcham Road, SW17 9PB
Tel: 020 8672 5127
Tooting Junction
The Gold Shop, 20-22 London Road, 
SW17 9HW
Tel: 020 8640 7575
Walsall
10a Digbeth Square, WS1 1QU
Tel: 01922 638 501
Walthamstow 
234 High Street, E17 7JH
Tel: 020 8521 8156
Walton Vale
27 Walton Vale, Liverpool, L9 4RE
Tel: 0151 525 5182
Walworth
391 Walworth Road, SE17 2AW
Tel: 020 7703 2946
Waterloo
111 Lower Marsh, SE1 7AE
Tel: 020 7928 0382
Watford
114 High Street, WD17 2GW
Tel: 01923 247 740
Welling
3 Bellegrove Road, DA16 3PA
Tel: 020 8303 3645
Wigan
21 Hope Street, Galleries Shopping Centre,
WN1 1QF
Tel: 01942 237 518
Willesden
70 High Road, NW10 2PU
Tel: 020 8459 3527
Wolverhampton
Cleveland Gold, 10a Cleveland Street, 
WV1 3HH
Tel: 1902 425 648
Wood Green
12 Cheapside, N22 6HH
Tel: 020 8889 9484
Worksop
90 Bridge Street, S80 1JA
Tel: 01909 480 146
Get>Go
22 Market Street, Bury, BL9 0AJ
Tel: 0161 797 1330
Get>Go
549 West Derby Road, Tuebrook, L13 8AD 
Tel: 0151 228 9298
Store Directory Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Times House 
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: 0870 9022 600
www.handtgroup.co.uk
H&T Group plc
