 Halma plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Insight
Opportunity
Value
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our business is protecting life and improving 
the quality of life for people worldwide
Halma employs over 5,600 people in nearly 50 businesses based in more  
than 20 countries.
Our companies and products have a core focus on safety, health and 
environmental markets.
Through innovation and acquisition, we have developed a diverse portfolio 
of market-leading companies within our Process Safety, Infrastructure 
Safety, Medical and Environmental & Analysis sectors.
Our technology is used to save lives, prevent injuries and protect people 
and assets around the world.
Strategic Report 
1 Highlights
2 Business at a Glance
4 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
8 Market Review
12 Business Model and Strategy
13 Acquisition focus
23 Resources and relationships
24 Key Performance Indicators 
28 Risk Management and Internal Controls
30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
34 Process Safety 
36 Infrastructure Safety
38 Medical 
40 Environmental & Analysis
42 Financial Review
48 Sustainability
Governance 
54 Chairman’s Introduction
56 Board of Directors 
59 Leadership
64 Effectiveness
66 Nomination Committee Report
68 Accountability
69 Audit Committee Report
73 Remuneration Committee Report
7 4 Remuneration Policy
82 Annual Remuneration Report
91 Other Statutory Information
95 Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements 
96 Independent Auditor’s Report 
102 Consolidated Income Statement
103  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expenditure
104 Consolidated Balance Sheet
105  Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity
107 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
108 Accounting Policies
1 18 Notes to the Accounts
160 Company Balance Sheet
161 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
162 Notes to the Company Accounts
17 4 Summary 2007 to 2016
176 Halma Directory
180 Shareholder Information and Advisers
Our global presence STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1
Highlights
Another record year of revenue, 
profit and dividend
Revenue (£m)
£807.8m +11%
Adjusted profit before taxation (£m)
£166.0m +8%
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
354.6 398.0 455.9 459.1 518.4 579.9 619.2 676.5 726.1 807.8
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
66.1 73.2 79.1 86.2 104.6 120.5 128.5 140.2 153.6 166.0
Dividend paid and proposed
12.81p +7% per share
Return on sales (%)
20.6%
(£m)
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
26.8 28.2 29.7 32.0 34.3 36.7 39.4 42.2 45.2 48.5
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
18.6 18.4 17.3 18.8 20.2 20.8 20.8 20.7 21.2 20.6
Financial highlights
Continuing operations 2016 2015 Change
Revenue £807.8m £726.1m +11%
Adjusted Profit before Taxation
1
£166.0m £153.6m +8%
Adjusted Earnings per Share
2
34.26p 31.17p +10%
Statutory Profit before Taxation £136.3m £133.6m +2%
Statutory Earnings per Share 28.76p 27.49p +5%
Total Dividend per Share
3
12.81p 11.96p +7%
Return on Sales
4
20.6% 21.2%
Return on Total Invested Capital
5
15.6% 16.3%
Net Debt £246.7m £100.9m
Pro-forma information:
1
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items and profit 
or loss on disposal of operations, totalling £29.7m (2015: £20.0m). See note 1 to the Accounts. 
2
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items, profit or 
loss on disposal of operations and the associated taxation thereon. See note 2 to the Accounts.
3
 Total dividend paid and proposed per share.
4
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
1
 profit before taxation from continuing operations 
expressed as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
5
  Organic growth rates and Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) are non-GAAP 
performance measures used by management. See note 3 to the Accounts. 2 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Business at a Glance
Our sectors
Record results 
for Infrastructure 
Safety, Medical 
and Environmental 
& Analysis 
and resilient 
demand in  
Process Safety
Process Safety
Products which protect assets and 
people at work. Specialised interlocks which 
safely control critical processes. Instruments 
which detect flammable and hazardous 
gases. Explosion protection and corrosion 
monitoring products.
Infrastructure Safety
Products which detect hazards to protect 
assets and people in public spaces, 
transportation and commercial buildings. 
Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection and 
suppression systems, security sensors and 
audible/visual warning devices. Sensors used 
on automatic doors and elevators in buildings 
and transportation. 
Medical
Products which enhance the quality of life 
for patients and improve the quality of care 
delivered by providers. Devices that assess eye 
health, assist with eye surgery and primary care 
applications. Critical fluidic components used 
by medical diagnostic OEMs and laboratories. 
Sensor technologies used in hospitals to track 
assets and support patient and staff safety.
Environmental 
& Analysis
Products and technologies for analysis 
in safety, life sciences and environmental 
markets. Market-leading opto-electronic 
technology and gas conditioning products. 
Products to monitor water networks, UV 
technology for disinfecting water, and water 
quality testing products.
Read more p34 Read more p36 Read more p38 Read more p40
Contribution to 
Group revenue 
19% 33% 25% 23%
Financial 
highlights
£155m
Revenue
£40m
Operating profit
£265m
Revenue
£56m
Operating profit
£199m
Revenue
£52m
Operating profit
£189m
Revenue
£34m
Operating profit
Primary growth 
drivers
• population growth
• increasing health, safety and environmental 
regulation
• demand for life critical resources
• population growth
• urbanisation
• increasing health, safety and environmental 
regulation
 • population growth
• ageing and increased life expectancy
• demand for healthcare, particularly 
in developing economies 
• population growth
•  increasing environmental regulation
• demand for life critical resources
Profit by sector
Process Safety 22%
Infrastructure Safety 31%
Medical 28%
Environmental & Analysis 19%
Revenue by destination
USA 34%
Mainland Europe 22%
United Kingdom 18%
Asia Pacific 15%
Other 11%
Employees by location
USA 32%
Mainland Europe 15%
United Kingdom 35%
Asia Pacific 17%
Other 1% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
Record results 
for Infrastructure 
Safety, Medical 
and Environmental 
& Analysis 
and resilient 
demand in  
Process Safety
Process Safety
Products which protect assets and 
people at work. Specialised interlocks which 
safely control critical processes. Instruments 
which detect flammable and hazardous 
gases. Explosion protection and corrosion 
monitoring products.
Infrastructure Safety
Products which detect hazards to protect 
assets and people in public spaces, 
transportation and commercial buildings. 
Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection and 
suppression systems, security sensors and 
audible/visual warning devices. Sensors used 
on automatic doors and elevators in buildings 
and transportation. 
Medical
Products which enhance the quality of life 
for patients and improve the quality of care 
delivered by providers. Devices that assess eye 
health, assist with eye surgery and primary care 
applications. Critical fluidic components used 
by medical diagnostic OEMs and laboratories. 
Sensor technologies used in hospitals to track 
assets and support patient and staff safety.
Environmental 
& Analysis
Products and technologies for analysis 
in safety, life sciences and environmental 
markets. Market-leading opto-electronic 
technology and gas conditioning products. 
Products to monitor water networks, UV 
technology for disinfecting water, and water 
quality testing products.
Read more p34 Read more p36 Read more p38 Read more p40
Contribution to 
Group revenue 
19% 33% 25% 23%
Financial 
highlights
£155m
Revenue
£40m
Operating profit
£265m
Revenue
£56m
Operating profit
£199m
Revenue
£52m
Operating profit
£189m
Revenue
£34m
Operating profit
Primary growth 
drivers
• population growth
• increasing health, safety and environmental 
regulation
• demand for life critical resources
• population growth
• urbanisation
• increasing health, safety and environmental 
regulation
 • population growth
• ageing and increased life expectancy
• demand for healthcare, particularly 
in developing economies 
• population growth
•  increasing environmental regulation
• demand for life critical resources 4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Delivering value to 
shareholders through 
record revenue, profit 
and dividend
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Adjusted pre-tax profit up 
8% on revenue up 1 1 %
7% increase in total 
dividend per share
37th consecutive year of 
growing dividend payments 
by 5% or more
Four acquisitions completed 
for £193m
Strong cash generation and 
significant financial resources 
for further investment
Halma has made excellent progress, once 
again delivering record revenue, profit and 
dividends for shareholders.
Our ability to sustain success over a long 
period through changing market conditions  
is a testament to the quality and diversity of 
our portfolio of companies, which is focused 
on protecting life and improving the quality 
of life worldwide.
We have a clear growth strategy, a simple 
financial model and a customer-focused 
organisation which enables each business 
to adapt as their market opportunities 
change. The benefits of this were seen 
clearly in the past year, as growth in 
our Infrastructure Safety, Medical and 
Environmental & Analysis sectors 
ensured Halma made good progress 
while our Process Safety sector adjusted 
to more challenging market conditions.
Halma’s continued success is only possible 
through the commitment and dedication 
of talented individuals throughout our 
organisation and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all of my colleagues for 
their contribution to another successful year.
GOOD ORGANIC GROWTH 
AND HIGH RETURNS
Revenue increased by 1 1 % to £808m 
(2015: £726m) including 6% organic constant 
currency growth and a 2% favourable currency 
impact. Adjusted profit
1
 increased by 8% 
to £166.0m (2015: £153.6m) including 3% 
organic constant currency growth and a 
2% favourable currency impact.
High returns were maintained with Return 
on Sales of 20.6% (2015: 21.2%). Return 
on Capital Employed for our operating 
companies remained strong at 72% 
(2015: 78%) and the Group’s Return on Total 
Invested Capital was 15.6% (2015: 16.3%).
STRONG CASH GENERATION 
AND BALANCE SHEET SUPPORTS 
FUTURE GROWTH
Cash generation was maintained at a  
high level and we ended the year with  
net debt of £247m (2015: £101m) after 
spending £193m (2015: £84m) on current 
year acquisitions, £24m (2015: £23m) on 
capital expenditure, and paying out £47m 
in dividends (2015: £43m) to shareholders 
and £27m of tax (2015: £31m). 
Our balance sheet is strong and will support 
further investment in our future growth. We 
have revolving credit facilities of up to £360m 
until November 2018 and in November 2015 
we agreed a US Private Placement totalling 
US$250m. We do not aim to become a highly 
geared business and therefore our balance 
sheet strategy is to ensure that we have 
sufficient financial resources to achieve our 
strategic goal, of matching organic growth 
with acquisition growth and dividend growth, 
over the medium term.
FINAL DIVIDEND TO INCREASE BY 7%
Once again, the Board is recommending a 
final dividend increase of 7% giving a final 
dividend of 7 .83p and a total dividend for  
the year of 12.81p (2015: 1 1.96p). The final 
dividend per share is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the AGM on 21 July 2016 
and will be paid on 17 August 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at 15 July 2016.
ORGANIC CONSTANT CURRENCY 
REVENUE GROWTH IN ALL 
MAJOR REGIONS
The strength of our long-term market growth 
drivers was reflected in the healthy rate of 
growth in all developed regions. Revenue 
from the USA increased by 22% to £273m 
(2015: £223m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 9%. Revenue from 
Mainland Europe grew by 7% to £179m 
(2015: £167m) and by 7% at organic constant 
currency while UK revenue was up by 5%  
to £145m (2015: £138m) with 4% organic 
constant currency growth. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
Our clear growth 
strategy, simple financial 
model and customer-
focused approach 
enables our businesses 
to adapt as market 
opportunities change.
Revenue from outside the USA, UK and 
Mainland Europe improved by 7% to 
£21 1m (2015: £197m), representing 26% of the 
Group (2015: 27%) and including 1 % organic 
constant currency growth. Asia Pacific revenue 
grew by 7% to £125m (2015: £1 17m) including 
3% organic constant currency growth. This 
included revenue growth of 10% in China to 
£54m (2015: £49m) and an increase of 29% 
in India to £1 1m (2015: £8m). Revenue from 
Other regions was up by 7% with good growth 
in Africa, Near and Middle East compensating 
for weaker demand in South America.
RECORD RESULTS FOR THREE 
SECTORS AND RESILIENT DEMAND 
IN PROCESS SAFETY 
Infrastructure Safety revenue grew by 
13% to a record £265m (2015: £234m) 
including organic growth of 6% at constant 
currency. Profit
2
 rose by 12% to a record 
£56.2m (2015: £50.0m) with organic growth 
at constant currency of 5%. Return on Sales 
was 21.2% (2015: 21.4%).
There was double-digit organic constant 
currency revenue growth in the USA and  
mid single-digit organic growth in the UK  
and Mainland Europe. There was excellent 
progress in Africa, Near and Middle East 
which more than compensated for a modest 
organic decline in Asia Pacific. Firetrace USA, 
LLC the fire suppression business acquired in 
October 2015 traded in line with expectations 
and has integrated well within the 
Infrastructure Safety sector.
In the Medical sector revenue increased 
by 17% to a record £199m (2015: £169m), 
with impressive organic growth of 10% at 
constant currency. Profit
2
 was up by 14% 
to a record £51.7m (2015: £45.4m), which 
included organic constant currency growth 
of 9%. Return on Sales remained strong 
at 26.0% (2015: 26.8%).
Organic constant currency revenue growth 
was strongest in Mainland Europe and Asia 
Pacific, with good growth in the UK and the 
USA. Value Added Solutions, acquired in May 
2015 was successfully integrated into Diba 
Industries during the year. The integration  
of Visiometrics and CenTrak, acquired in 
December 2015 and February 2016 
respectively, is also going well and both are 
well placed to make valuable contributions  
to the sector’s progress in the year ahead.
The Environmental & Analysis sector 
performed excellently, with revenue up by 
15% to a record £189m (2015: £164m) 
including organic growth of 1 1% at constant 
currency. Profit
2
 also grew strongly, increasing 
by 26% to a record £34.5m (2015: £27 .4m) 
with impressive organic constant currency 
growth of 21%. Return on Sales improved 
to 18.3% (2015: 16.7%), which is now within 
the Group’s target range of 18% to 22%.
Regionally there was double-digit organic 
constant currency growth in the USA, Asia 
Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East. 
There was solid single-digit organic growth  
in the UK and Mainland Europe. There were 
no acquisitions completed in the year.
Process Safety revenue was 2% lower than 
last year at £155m (2015: £159m) including  
an organic constant currency decline of 5%. 
This was a resilient result given the challenging 
market conditions caused by the lower oil 
price in energy markets, which now represents 
41% of sector revenue (2015: 48%). Profit
2
 
was down 12% to £39.6m (2015: £44.8m) 
including a 15% organic decline in constant 
currency. Return on Sales remained strong at 
25.4% (2015: 28.3%). 
Despite lower revenue, investment was 
maintained as certain businesses diversified 
into new markets including utilities and other 
process industries. This investment included a 
4% increase in R&D spend, representing 3.7% 
of sector revenue (2015: 3.4%). Consequently, 
the sector is better positioned to consolidate 
its current level of profitability in the year ahead 
even though conditions in the energy-related 
markets are expected to remain challenging.
Regionally, there was modest organic 
constant currency revenue growth in the  
UK and Mainland Europe and a small  
organic decline in the USA. There was  
an organic constant currency revenue  
decline in Asia Pacific and Other regions, 
including a significant year-on-year  
reduction in South America following  
a major €4m project in the prior year.
FOUR ACQUISITIONS COMPLETED 
IN LINE WITH OUR DISCIPLINED 
M&A STRATEGY
Halma completed four acquisitions during 
the year, resulting in a spend of £193m in  
a single financial year. 
This was particularly pleasing as the M&A 
market continued to be competitive with 
higher multiples being paid for larger 
businesses in Halma’s attractive market 
sectors. Additional M&A resources were, 
and continue to be, added to each of our  
four sector boards so that we can continue  
to find high-quality businesses to acquire at 
sensible prices. Over the medium term, our 
strategic goal is to match the average rate  
of acquisition profit growth to organic profit 
growth, since this ensures that we retain a 
strong balance sheet, sustain growth and 
increase dividends to shareholders.
Our core acquisition strategy is to find 
privately-owned businesses in, or adjacent 
to, our existing markets although each sector 
has the freedom to find new niches which 
possess the right product, market and 
financial characteristics. We consider selling 
businesses if any of these characteristics 
change adversely over time and attempts 
to diversify, or mitigate the situation, are 
not productive.
Every transaction is approved by the Group’s 
Chief Executive and Finance Director, with all 
deals worth £10m or more approved by the 
Halma plc Board. Details of the transactions 
completed during the year are as follows:
• In May 2015, we completed the acquisition 
of Value Added Solutions, LLC (trading as 
VAS Integrated). VAS, which has been 
integrated into Diba Industries within  
the Medical sector, designs and 
manufactures fluidic-related plastic 
machined components and assemblies  
for life sciences and analytical instruments. 
The initial cash consideration was  
US$5m (£3m). A further estimated  
US$1m (£0.6m) will be paid in April 2017 
based on its growth between joining 
Halma and October 2016, with no further 
consideration due to be paid after that.
• In October 2015, we acquired Firetrace 
USA, LLC, an Arizona-based manufacturer 
of customised fire suppression systems 
for confined spaces serving a range of end 
markets including transportation, process 
machinery, computer server hubs, defence 
and aerospace. This stand-alone addition 
to the Infrastructure Safety sector adds fire 
suppression technology to our successful 
fire detection business. The consideration 
paid was US$1 10m (£73m) with no future 
contingent consideration to be paid.
• In December 2015, Halma acquired 
Visiometrics, S.L. located outside 
Barcelona, Spain and Visual Performance 
Diagnostics, Inc. located in California, USA 
(together referred to as Visiometrics). 
Visiometrics’ products are used to measure 
objectively a person’s visual acuity leading 
to a more precise determination of which 
elements of the eye’s anatomy are affecting 
quality of vision, such as the early stages  
of cataract formation. This novel and new 
technology has high growth potential if it 
becomes a standard of care in the field of 
ophthalmic diagnosis where our Medical 
sector already has a strong global presence 
and this was reflected in the deal structure 
with the initial cash consideration of €18m 
(£13m) and a maximum total deferred 
contingent consideration of €107m 
(£78m) payable in instalments each 
year dependent on Visiometrics’ financial 
performance to the end of 2020. 6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Talent development
Halma’s Executive Board has continued to 
spend substantial time building sector boards 
for each of our four sectors. A typical sector 
board comprises a Sector CEO, Sector 
Finance Director, Sector M&A Director and 
two, or more, Sector Vice Presidents (SVPs) 
– who chair the individual operating company 
boards. By April 2016, each Halma sector 
had two Sector Vice Presidents, with five 
out of the total eight positions filled through 
internal promotions.
The sector boards are tasked with boosting 
our M&A search efforts and seeking new 
opportunities to accelerate organic growth, for 
example, by encouraging greater collaboration. 
This requires a clear vision and strategy in 
each sector, as outlined in more detail in the 
sector reviews on pages 34 to 41.
During the year, we reviewed our range of 
Halma talent development programmes 
through the lens of the future needs of our 
growing business. In April 2016 we launched 
a new programme, called HPD Enterprise, 
which will help our SVPs and MDs think more 
entrepreneurially about how they can grow 
their businesses in fast-changing markets.
We considered also how we can continue 
to develop the rich talent emerging from  
our successful HPD Graduate programme. 
We have introduced a new initiative which  
will help our graduates to build on (at least) 
two years post HPD Graduate experience. 
We are offering to support them through an 
MBA programme with the aim of accelerating 
their progress into senior management 
positions within Halma companies.
Although we have made some progress 
towards increasing the diversity of our 
management talent, we want to do more. 
In addition to simple things such as insisting 
on diversity in candidate listings from head 
hunters, we are encouraging our company 
boards to make better use of existing 
resources. This includes co-opting junior 
managers as board advisers and appointing 
Managing Directors from other Halma 
companies as non-executive directors. While 
recognising that there is a lot more work to be 
done to have more diversity in our senior 
management, these actions will help to realise 
the benefits of greater diversity now as well as 
provide new development opportunities for 
the individuals involved.
Innovation
New product innovation is a vital component 
of creating organic growth and enables 
Halma companies to increase revenue 
and profitability through market share 
gain and market expansion.
Our investment in new product 
development increased substantially, 
with R&D spend up by 19% to £41.2m 
(2015: £34.6m) representing 5. 1% of 
Group revenue (2015: 4.8%). All sectors 
increased investment, most notably the 
Medical sector which grew R&D spend 
from 4.0% to 4.5% of sector revenue -  
an absolute rise of 32%.
The return on investment of new product 
development is assessed monthly by  
each Halma company, both in terms of  
their previous track record and future 
expectations, including the proportion of their 
revenue generated from products launched 
in the past three years. All measures can  
vary significantly from company to company, 
depending on the characteristics of their 
market and the effectiveness of their new 
product development effort. Since 2013, the 
average contribution to Group revenue from 
products launched in the past three years 
has been around 22% although the individual 
company performances range from single 
digit to over 50%.
Halma’s commitment to innovation extends 
beyond new product development and we 
are continuing to develop more collaboration 
between our businesses as this is a valuable 
way in which we can build a more innovative 
culture. We foster collaboration by providing 
opportunities for our senior managers to build 
a network of connections across Halma 
including the biennial Halma Innovation 
and Technology Exposition (HITE), our 
management training programmes and 
an internal social networking platform.
The best examples of innovation in Halma 
are recognised each year through the Halma 
Annual Innovation Awards. This year’s first 
prize was won by HWM-Water for their 
PermaNET+ remote water leak monitoring 
and pinpointing system. The runners-up 
were Ocean Optics, for a new automated 
alignment and calibration process for their 
Flame product platform, and SunTech 
Medical for their Vet20 product, which 
provides non-invasive blood pressure 
readings on animals, without the need 
for sedation.
• In February 2016, Halma acquired  
CenTrak Inc., based in Pennsylvania,  
USA. CenTrak manufactures sensors and 
proprietary communication technology 
providing real-time location monitoring of 
people and assets in healthcare facilities. 
This is a new market niche for our Medical 
sector, although many elements of 
CenTrak’s core technology are similar to 
that used widely in other Halma sectors. 
The cash consideration paid was 
US$140m (£97m) and there is no future 
consideration contingent on performance. 
CenTrak is Halma’s largest ever acquisition.
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
INVESTMENT TO DRIVE GROWTH
Halma’s decentralised organisational 
structure gives our diverse range of 
businesses considerable management 
autonomy, albeit within a well-defined 
strategic and control framework. These 
are underpinned by the Halma Values of 
Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment 
and Customer satisfaction.
We have a clear view of how each business 
can benefit from being part of a larger group 
and make targeted central investments in 
three key areas to leverage this collective 
benefit: Talent development, Innovation 
and International expansion.
Increasingly, these central investments are 
being supplemented by sector-led initiatives 
targeted at the specific challenges and 
opportunities within each individual sector. 
Examples include the Medical sector 
introducing reward plans for increased 
collaboration and the Process Safety 
sector establishing a Brazil hub to build 
a stronger presence in South America. 
Progress in Halma’s three key areas of 
strategic investment included the following: T otal Shareholder Return (three years)
Mar-2016 Mar-2015 Mar-2013
200%
175%
150%
125%
100%
75%
50%
Mar-2014
■ Halma ■ FTSE 250 ■ FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
Our decentralised 
organisational  
structure gives our 
diverse range of 
businesses considerable 
management autonomy 
within a well-defined 
strategic and control 
framework.
International expansion
Halma has continued to invest and 
encourage our businesses to accelerate 
growth in international markets. Increasingly, 
Halma companies in similar markets are 
working together more closely to coordinate 
their resources and build greater critical  
mass in key growth regions. For example,  
our ophthalmic diagnostic device businesses 
within the Medical sector are building a single 
sales organisation in China to carry products 
from multiple Halma companies.
The Halma hubs in China and India remain a 
focal point and catalyst for growth. In India, we 
have relocated our Head Office to Bengaluru, 
while retaining commercial offices in Mumbai 
and Vadodara. We have plans to expand 
into Chennai and Delhi in the medium term. 
In China, our R&D subsidy programme has 
helped 15 Halma companies hire 33 new 
engineers in the last three years to develop 
new products for the local market. This 
programme was refined and re-launched in 
April 2016 as we continue to see local product 
development as critical to sustained growth 
and building a strong market share.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY IS AT 
HALMA’S CORE
Halma’s core strategy is to protect life and 
improve the quality of life for people worldwide. 
Our primary market growth drivers mean 
that Halma companies operate in markets 
in which their products contribute positively 
to the wider community. These market 
characteristics and our commitment to health 
and safety, the environment and people 
development are reflected in the values held 
by our employees and our operating culture. 
We review our responsibility and sustainability 
reporting in accordance with best practice. 
Legislative changes, particularly concerning 
the environment and bribery and corruption, 
have provided an opportunity to review our 
procedures in these important areas and 
ensure they are accessible, compliant and 
firmly embedded within our business.
A detailed report on Sustainability is on  
pages 48 to 53.
OUTLOOK
The resilience and diversity of our markets, 
long-term growth drivers and business  
model give us confidence that we can 
continue to grow in today’s varied market 
conditions. During the year, Halma has  
made four acquisitions and further increased 
investment for organic growth through Talent 
development, Innovation and International 
expansion. Since the period end, order intake 
has continued to be ahead of revenue and 
order intake last year. We expect to make 
further progress in the year ahead in line with 
our expectations.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive
1
 See Highlights
2 
See note 1 to the Accounts 8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Market Review
Our businesses are able to 
respond quickly to changes 
in the market environment
MACRO-ECONOMIC, REGULATORY 
AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
Halma’s strategy is to develop market 
positions primed for growth over 10 years or 
more. Our operating companies have growth 
strategies with three to five year horizons.
Our focus on the supply of safety, health 
and environmental products positions our 
businesses in relatively non-cyclical markets 
with high barriers to entry and long-term 
growth driven by:
• increasing health and safety regulation
• increasing demand for healthcare
• increasing demand for life-critical resources
Regulation underpins most of our markets, 
driving sustained demand and often making 
customer spending non-discretionary. Our 
companies’ strong market positions deliver 
upgrade and replacement sales opportunities 
as customers seek to maintain compliance 
and conform with best practice.
environment is given in the sector reviews 
on pages 34 to 41.
Our strategy of focusing on non-cyclical niche 
markets with growth underpinned by resilient 
regulatory drivers and product approvals 
provides our businesses with genuine 
stability: resilience in challenging economic 
conditions and organic growth above 
prevailing market rates. This underlying 
intrinsic strength enables us to plan and to 
invest for the longer term with confidence.
For 2016/17 , growth projections for the US 
economy, our largest geographic market, 
are in the region of 2.6%. Economic growth 
forecasts in the region of 1.7% in Europe and 
2.2% in the UK are expected to support 
steady growth in these markets. The volatility 
of Sterling relative to the US Dollar and Euro 
means that our companies need to manage 
input costs and pricing closely.
The emerging economies are forecast 
to continue to grow at 4 or 5% through 
2016/17 . Developing socio-economic 
conditions in Asia and South America are 
expected to fuel greater demand for our 
products used to create safer workplaces, 
provide healthcare, improve infrastructure 
safety and manage life-critical resources.
Global total, urban and rural population
10
8
6
4
2
0
population: billions
2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
■ T otal population
■ Urban
■ Rural Source: United Nations
Our competitive environment is influenced 
by global, regional and national product 
approvals or technical validations. 
Compliance with new and updated product 
regulations is a steadily increasing cost and 
technical challenge but our expertise in this 
area enables us to respond quickly and build 
competitive advantage.
Halma is exposed to a very diverse range of 
carefully selected niche markets, each with  
its own unique drivers. As a result, macro-
economic factors can affect our businesses’ 
competitive environment very differently 
depending on their market segment and 
geographic exposure.
Our operating companies develop and 
execute their own growth strategies and 
respond to changes in their specific markets. 
Sector management teams provide strategic 
support and oversight for wider-reaching and 
longer-term market dynamics. More detail 
about our market segments and competitive  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
INCREASING HEALTH AND  
SAFETY REGULATION
A large majority of work accidents are 
preventable and employers throughout the 
world must comply with increasingly strict 
government laws and regulations to protect 
their workers, the environment and their 
assets from workplace hazards.
A growing number of countries are now 
focusing on occupational safety and health, 
and on preventing accidents and work-
related illness. There is a global trend for 
governments, employers and workers 
to recognise the significant economic 
and personal impact of work accidents 
and ill health.
In parallel with increasing national regulation, 
particularly in developing economies, many 
multinational employers based in the 
developed world are extending their health 
and safety practices across their global 
operations. Employers increasingly recognise 
Global health expenditure
1995
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
trillion US$
2012 2022
90%
10%
79%
21%
67%
33%
■ Emerging economies
■ Developed economies
Source:
World Economic Forum
that work-related accidents and diseases can 
damage productivity, competitiveness and 
a business’ reputation. These factors drive 
demand for our Process Safety and 
Infrastructure Safety products.
Globally, an estimated 2.3 million workers 
die each year from accidents at work and 
work-related diseases. That is over 6,000 
fatalities per day, or one person every 15 
seconds. A further 317 million workers 
suffer non-fatal work accidents every year.
The financial impact of poor occupational 
safety and health practice is due to absences 
from work and sickness, disability benefits, 
compensation, interruption of production and 
medical expenses. In addition to the human 
cost, this is a social and economic burden 
for enterprises, communities and countries. 
The macro-economic impact of occupational 
injuries, illness, disability and incapacity is 
estimated to be 4% of global GDP . Above-
average workplace casualty rates in some 
countries are estimated to be costing up 
to 10% of annual GDP .
Safety and health at work standards 
and practices vary considerably between 
countries, economic sectors and social 
groups. However, they are generally rising 
and becoming more closely aligned. Deaths 
and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in 
developing countries, where a large part 
of the population may work in hazardous 
conditions. However, greater investment and 
advances in occupational safety are reducing 
the number of fatal accidents at work. 
Governments around the world are prompted 
by deaths and injuries caused by accidents 
to introduce new and tougher regulations 
that protect people from harm in commercial 
buildings and public places. The continuous 
introduction of new, mandatory building codes 
affecting fire protection, building security, 
automated doors and elevators drives 
demand for our Infrastructure Safety products.  10 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Market Review continued
INCREASING DEMAND 
FOR HEALTHCARE
Global healthcare demand is driven by 
five long-term demographic trends:
• ageing of the global population 
• growth of the global population 
• increase in chronic disease
• rising developing world incomes
• new medical technologies and therapies
All regions of the world, in both developed 
and developing economies, are experiencing 
population ageing together with rising 
prevalence of age-related chronic disease. 
These demographic factors combine  
to form a strong long-term driver for 
healthcare services and products in our 
Medical and Environmental & Analysis 
sectors. Continuous advances in medical 
technology and medical procedures also 
stimulate demand for new equipment.
Driven by a global trend of declining fertility 
and rising longevity, the number of people 
aged over 65 is forecast to more than triple 
between 2010 and 2050. Life expectancy 
is expected to rise from 72.7 years in 2013 
to 73.7 years by 2018. As a result, over 10% 
of the world’s population will be over 65. 
The proportion in Western Europe will hit 
20% and in Japan 28%. In the USA, the 
world’s largest healthcare market, increasing 
life expectancy is predicted to double the 
number of over-65s by 2050. 
While about 9% of China’s current population 
are aged over 65, the proportion is projected 
to rise to around 12% in 2020. This will mean 
that healthcare services for the elderly will 
account for nearly 23% of China’s total 
healthcare budget. 
Although developed countries have the 
oldest population profiles, the large majority 
of older people and the fastest rates of 
population ageing are in developing 
countries, where the number of older people 
is forecast to rise over 250% by 2050. 
Fertility rates are falling globally causing the 
population growth rate to slow in almost 
every region except Africa. In 2015 the global 
population reached 7 .3 billion, almost a 
tripling of the population in 1950. Despite 
the population growth rate falling, world 
population is projected to rise to 8.5 billion 
by 2030. Almost 40% of population growth 
during 2015 to 2030 is expected in Africa.
Global healthcare spending – about 10% of 
global GDP – is forecast to grow faster than 
the global economy over the next decade  
at over 6% annually. The global healthcare 
market is still dominated by the developed 
world. Economies such as the USA, Europe, 
and Japan spend about 12% of GDP on 
healthcare whereas developing economies 
average about 6% of GDP . Advanced 
economies account for almost two thirds 
of the world’s healthcare expenditure with 
the USA alone responsible for 40% of the 
global spend.
In addition to ageing, population growth 
and rising affluence are strong drivers of 
healthcare demand in the developing world. 
Healthcare spending in emerging nations 
is forecast to rise dramatically with annual 
growth estimates for India and China at 
over 15% and 12% respectively, boosted by 
national initiatives to improve accessibility 
and quality of healthcare.
The incidence rates of cancer, heart disease, 
stroke, respiratory disease, diabetes and 
hypertension have risen sharply in the past 
decade, particularly in developing regions. 
These chronic diseases are the leading cause 
of mortality worldwide due to population 
ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing 
diets and rising obesity. Halma’s focus on 
ophthalmology and advanced blood pressure 
monitoring products directly relates to the 
diagnosis and treatment of these chronic 
and age-related diseases. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
INCREASING DEMAND FOR 
LIFE-CRITICAL RESOURCES
Continuous growth in demand for life-critical 
resources is the result of social and economic 
development. The United Nations predicts 
that the world’s growing population will need 
at least 40% more water and 50% more 
energy within the next fifteen years.
Rising energy consumption and water usage 
is driven by four key trends: 
• population growth
• economic growth
• rising living standards
• dietary and agricultural changes
During the 20th century, water consumption 
grew twice as fast as the world population. 
Increasing global demand for fresh water 
resources is driven by growing populations, 
urbanisation, migration, food and energy 
production, and economic factors like trade 
globalisation and changing patterns of 
consumption. These same trends have led 
to the pollution of water resources, further 
reducing the capacity of the natural 
water cycle to meet the world’s growing 
water demand. 
Today, about one third of the global 
population lives in water-stressed countries. 
By 2025 that could rise to two thirds. By  
2050 the United Nations expects that the 
world will need to produce 60% more food 
(100% more in developing countries), 
but the current growth rate of agricultural 
consumption of freshwater resources 
is unsustainable. Water demand for 
manufacturing industry worldwide is 
predicted to rise by 400% from 2000 
to 2050, with the largest increases 
in emerging economies. 
Competition for water resources is forecast 
to increase between industries and economic 
sectors, and between countries in both 
developed and developing regions. The rising 
value of finite water resources drives demand 
for our water conservation, treatment and 
testing products.
As people in developing economies become 
more affluent, they can switch from starch-
based diets to meat and dairy diets, which 
raises agricultural water demand. Dietary 
change has had the strongest impact on 
global water consumption over the past 30 
years, and this trend is expected to continue 
well into the middle of the 21st century.
Rising demand for energy and water is 
strongly linked. Water is used in power 
generation, in fuel extraction, transport and 
processing, and to irrigate biofuel feedstock 
crops. Water use in energy production can 
also affect fresh water resources by reducing 
the downstream volume and quality. Energy 
is vital to provide fresh water, powering the 
systems that collect, transport, distribute and 
treat it. After agriculture, energy production is 
the second largest water consumer. Energy 
uses about 15% of the world’s total water 
withdrawal, but this is expected to rise 20% 
by 2035. 
Global economic growth is forecast to drive 
up energy demand by 34% between 2014 
and 2035. Most of the extra energy will be 
consumed in the fast-growing emerging 
economies; energy use within developed 
OECD countries is expected to remain 
largely unchanged. 
The oil and gas segment of the energy 
market consists of three sectors:  
upstream (exploration and production), 
midstream (storage, processing and 
distribution), and downstream (oil refining  
and raw gas processing). 
In response to the recent slump in oil prices, 
the oil majors have postponed many projects 
and made massive cuts in upstream capital 
investment. Despite signs in the second 
quarter of 2016 that the oil price is beginning 
to rise, energy industry forecasts suggest that 
upstream sector capital investment is likely  
to continue to fall in the short- and medium-
term. Conversely, the oil price fall has been 
favourable to midstream and downstream 
processors who have benefited from lower 
feedstock prices. As a result, investment 
continues in midstream and downstream  
oil and gas storage and refinery projects 
where our Process Safety products have 
most exposure. 
Several of our businesses may see revenue 
from upstream oil and gas projects continue  
to fall. However, a combination of long-term 
growth in energy demand, rising capital 
expenditure in refining, petrochemicals  
and pipelines in the oil and gas midstream/
downstream sectors, and in alternative energy 
markets like wind farm power generation, will 
offer growth and diversification opportunities 
for our businesses affected by the short-term 
oil price fall. 
As global demand for water resources 
becomes unsustainable, the value of 
conservation, improving efficiency and 
effective monitoring is growing. Several of our 
Environmental & Analysis sector businesses 
operate in markets driven by the global trends 
of rising demand for life-critical resources 
such as energy and water. Rising energy 
demand and continued global investment 
in the key sectors of traditional and 
unconventional energy sources also drives 
demand for our Process Safety products. 12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Business Model and Strategy
Creating long-term sustainable value
Business model objective
Our objective is to double every five years. We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.  
Return on Sales in excess of 18% and Return on Capital Employed over 45% ensure that cash generation is strong  
enough to sustain investment for growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
What resources our business model relies on
Financial
Our strongly 
cash generative 
businesses support 
investment  
for growth
Product Innovation
Developing and 
delivering the right 
products across 
our markets
Human Capital
Investing in our 
people to enable 
talent leadership 
throughout our 
businesses
Intellectual Assets
Building competitive 
advantage through 
investment in R&D 
and new product 
development
Relationships
Empowering our 
businesses to work 
closely with 
customers, suppliers 
and each other
Sustainability
Minimising the impact 
that our operations 
have on the 
environment
What we do
Through innovation and acquisition, we have a portfolio of market-leading companies within our four sectors.  
Demand for our products is underpinned by resilient, long-term growth drivers.
Process Safety Infrastructure Safety Medical Environmental & Analysis
Competitive advantage
Each business builds strong application knowledge and technology by focusing on its specific market niche where there are  
often barriers to entry. We place our operational resources close to our customers through autonomous locally managed 
businesses. We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
A sustainable strategy
Our strategy
To acquire and grow businesses in 
relatively non-cyclical, specialised global 
niche markets. The technology and 
application know-how in each company 
delivers strong competitive advantage 
to sustain growth and high returns.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Sustainable
growth
Our values
Achievement 
Innovation  
Empowerment  
Customer satisfaction
Our investment priorities
Innovation 
International expansion 
Talent development
Driving value creation
Key beneficiaries of our value creation
Customers Communities Employees Shareholders Suppliers Governments
Measuring and protecting value creation
KPIs
  See p24
Risks and uncertainties
  
See p30
Sustainability
  
See p48
Governance 
  
See p54 Acquisition focus
Insight
Our market insight enables us to select businesses  
in industries with long-term growth drivers.
These ensure that the need for our products is sustained, 
through periods of significant macro-economic change.
Opportunity
W e recognise the growth opportunities in the businesses we acquire and give 
business owners the opportunity to sell  their business and retain all the good 
things that have made them successful. W e then give them the opportunity to 
collaborate with other Halma businesses to accelerate and sustain growth.
Value
The combination of this vibrant acquisition activity 
and our organic investment enables us to deliver  
sustained dividend returns over a long period  of time. Kirk Key
Process Safety sector
Acquired 2011 Insight
Trapped key interlocking is a method of ensuring processes operate safely.  
It is specified as standard in Europe and is growing in prevalence in the USA  
and Asia as industrial regulations are tightened to reduce the potential for  
human error contributing to accidents.
Kirk Key is the established name in the USA for trapped key interlocking, 
positioned as a leader in certain market niches, primed and ready for growth.
Opportunity
Adding Kirk in the USA to our existing safety interlocking businesses 
expanded the geographic market reach of all of these companies. The potential  
to share sales resources, technologies and customer support channels has 
improved the level of service and innovation we can offer, strengthening 
our leadership position in this important Process Safety market.
Value
Kirk has joined with our other interlocking companies Castell and STI under one 
global management team, forming a truly global market-leading presence for 
trapped key interlocking. Collaboration in innovation, sales and operational 
efficiency gives these businesses the potential to build even stronger positions  
in many new geographic and end markets. Firetrace
Infrastructure Safety sector
Acquired 2015 Insight
Regulations around the world continue to require better fire 
protection for people, places and property. 
Fire protection is not just for buildings – damage to assets and fixed or moveable 
equipment can be costly and dangerous too. Firetrace’ s instant, automatic 
suppression technology for small spaces meets that market need perfectly.
Opportunity
There is great potential for Firetrace’ s systems in many markets, including the 
server rooms and bus engine compartments they already protect. The experience 
and connections of our existing Infrastructure Safety companies, as well as the 
wider Group’ s expertise in many international markets, can help facilitate and 
accelerate this diversification and growth.
Value
Firetrace enhances and broadens our presence in the fire protection market, 
adding a fast-growing company to the sector. It diversifies our end markets and 
provides great potential for organic growth in new international markets. Medicel
Medical sector
Acquired 2011 Medicel
Medical sector
Acquired 2011
Insight
People are living longer than ever before. At the same time demand for  
better medical treatment, easier access to healthcare, and improved  
quality of life is growing.
Cataracts are an inevitable part of the ageing process and are the world’ s leading 
cause of preventable blindness. Medicel’ s products are used by eye surgeons across 
the world to treat this condition and give patients their sight back.
Opportunity
Medicel’ s technology allows a surgeon to insert artificial lenses through  
very small incisions in the patient’ s eye, speeding up recovery time and  
improving post-operative outcomes.
Halma’ s wealth of medical and ophthalmic market knowledge, 
experience and global support is helping to drive the spread of this 
life-improving equipment faster and farther than ever before.
Value
Medicel’ s growth has been exceptional, with access to new geographic markets 
and the support of other ophthalmic companies in Halma’ s Medical sector.  
Its success has encouraged further investment in the ophthalmic surgery market  
with the acquisition of Accutome and MST in 2012. Alicat
Environmental & Analysis sector
Acquired 2010 Insight
Many processes rely on precise gas and liquid flows. From industrial applications to 
environmental monitoring, pressure and flow rates need to be carefully controlled. 
Fast, accurate measurement of flow rates is crucial in many of the markets in  
which we operate. Alicat makes some of the best mass flow meters in the world.
Opportunity
Alicat’ s mass flow meters are able to measure the exact amounts of gas or liquid 
passing through processes at any given moment. This technology is critical to 
processes in a huge number of industries  such as food processing, high-tech 
manufacturing and scientific research.  Halma’ s hubs in China and India offer 
Alicat the opportunity to build their presence in the markets faster.
Value
Alicat has continued to invest in new product development, process innovation 
 and international expansion to become one of Halma’ s highest growth 
and most profitable businesses. The Halma hubs have enabled it to diversify  
the company’ s end markets and position it for sustainable success.  www.halma.com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23
Resources and relationships
Committed to a sustainable 
business and society
We manage our 
capital resources 
to deliver a successful 
and sustainable 
business model.
FINANCIAL 
We rely on our businesses to deliver strong 
financial performance through innovation, 
cost control and high return on capital. The 
decentralised structure of the Group enables 
our businesses to capitalise on opportunities 
in their local market, while operating within the 
financial and operational control framework 
of Halma. Our operations are inherently cash 
generative and the Group has access to 
competitively priced finance, which provides 
good liquidity and support for the growth 
ambitions of Halma.
 See Financial Review p42
PRODUCT INNOVATION 
Our technology is used to save lives, 
prevent injuries and protect people and 
assets around the world. We aim to develop 
and deliver the right products in each of 
our markets. Investing in new product 
development and making complementary 
acquisitions enables Halma to develop 
the range and quality of its products.
 See Sector Reviews p34 to 41
HUMAN CAPITAL 
We recognise that our people are a 
valuable asset and investing in them is 
essential to our success. Developing talent 
and diversity across our businesses gives  
us a competitive advantage and ensures 
that we have motivated leaders to deliver our 
goals in an inclusive and collaborative way.
 See Sustainability p48
INTELLECTUAL ASSETS 
Innovation is a key element of our business 
model. Empowering our businesses to invest 
in new products and work collaboratively 
with each other to share knowledge and 
experience creates a culture where innovation 
can flourish. Our Annual Innovation Awards 
recognise the contribution made by our 
businesses in this area and further promotes 
our collaborative approach. 
 See Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
RELATIONSHIPS
Interaction with our customers and suppliers 
is key to developing market-leading positions 
in each of our businesses. We strive to 
understand the needs of our customers 
and work with our suppliers to meet 
these needs in the most effective way. 
 See Sustainability p48
SUSTAINABILITY 
We recognise that our products rely on the 
natural capital that is available in the world 
and that we have a duty to minimise the 
impact that our operations have on the 
environment and protect natural resources 
for future generations. Halma is committed 
to promoting sustainable business 
practices and works to improve the 
Group’s environmental performance.
 See Sustainability p48
Sustainability
Relationships
Financial
Product innovation
Intellectual assets
Human capital 24 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Key Performance Indicators
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
 
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Through careful selection of our market niches and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue and profit growth in the medium term. We buy 
companies with business and market characteristics similar to those of existing Halma operations. 
Acquired businesses have to be a good fit with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being 
value-enhancing financially.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
The measure of how successful we are in growing 
our business organically and by acquisition coupled 
with strong financial disciplines, including those 
related to tax and capital allocation, is captured in 
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Through careful selection of our market niches 
and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to 
achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue 
and profit growth in the medium term.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
We choose to operate in markets which are capable of delivering high returns. The ability to maintain 
these returns is a result of maintaining strong market and product positions sustained by continuing 
product and process innovation.
Organic profit growth %
(constant currency)
Acquisition profit growth % EPS growth % 
(adjusted earnings per share)
Organic revenue growth %
(constant currency)
Return on Sales % ROTIC % 
(Return on Total Invested Capital)
3%
Performance
≥5%
Target
8%
Performance
≥5%
Target
10%
Performance
≥10%
Target
6%
Performance
≥5%
Target
20.6%
Performance
≥18%
Target
15.6%
Performance
≥12%
Target
12 13 14 15 16
3* 3* 6* 7* 3
* Restated. See note 3 to the Accounts
12 13 14 15 16
0* 9* 1* 6* 8
* Restated. See KPI definition below
12 13 14 15 16
19 7 10 9 10
12 13 14 15 16
5* 2* 6* 5* 6
* Restated. See note 3 to the Accounts
12 13 14 15 16
20.8 20.8* 20.7 21.2 20.6
* After restatement
12 13 14 15 16
17.6 16.6* 16.7 16.3 15.6
* After restatement
KPI DEFINITION 
Organic profit growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in profit 
achieved in the current year compared with the  
prior year from continuing Group operations. The 
effect of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been eliminated.
COMMENT 
Organic profit growth at constant currency was 
less than our target. Growth of 3.4% included 
strong performances in Environmental & Analysis, 
Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors, with a 
decline in oil and gas markets adversely impacting 
Process Safety. 
2017 TARGET 
The Board has established a long-term organic 
growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above the 
blended long-term average growth rate of 
our markets.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Growth in organic profit is a key element of the 
economic value added performance which forms 
the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring 
consistent annual and longer-term growth, 
rewarding disciplined financial performance. 
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION 
Acquisition profit growth measures the annualised 
profit (net of financing costs) from acquisitions 
made in the year, measured at the date of 
acquisition, expressed as a percentage of prior 
year profit. Previously, the KPI was based on the 
annualised profit contributions from the current 
year’s and prior year’s acquisitions.
COMMENT 
Acquisition profit exceeded our target of 5% for 
the year following a record spend of £193m on 
four acquisitions. 2016 was an excellent year for 
acquisitions, financed through our strong cash 
flow and increased debt facilities.
2017 TARGET 
Acquisitions must meet our demanding criteria 
and we continue to have a strong pipeline of 
opportunities to meet our 5% growth target.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Growth in acquired profit is the second 
key element of the economic value added 
performance which forms the basis of the 
annual bonus plan, requiring consistent annual 
and longer-term growth, rewarding disciplined 
financial performance.
 READ MORE
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION
Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from 
continuing operations excluding the amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; 
profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects 
of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined 
benefit pension plans net of associated costs 
(2014 only); and associated tax thereon. 
COMMENT 
Performance was strong and met our target.
Currency translation had a positive impact  
on the year’s result.
2017 TARGET
We aim for the combination of organic and 
acquisition growth to exceed 10% per annum 
over the long term. The Directors consider that 
adjusted earnings represent a more consistent 
measure of underlying performance.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
EPS provides a clear link to the aims of the 
business growth strategy. It is a key financial  
driver for our business and provides a clear 
line of sight for our executives. EPS is 50% 
of the performance condition attaching to 
the Executive Share Plan introduced in 2015.
 READ MORE  
• Note 2 to the Accounts p121
KPI DEFINITION 
Organic revenue growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in revenue 
achieved in the current year compared with the 
prior year from continuing Group operations. The 
effect of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been eliminated.
COMMENT 
Organic growth at constant currency in revenue 
exceeded our target with growth in three sectors 
and all major geographic regions.
2017 TARGET
The Board has established a long-term minimum 
organic growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above 
the blended long-term average growth rate 
of our markets.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Organic growth in revenue contributes to the 
economic value added performance which forms 
the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring 
consistent annual and longer-term growth, 
rewarding disciplined financial performance.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION
Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit 
before taxation from continuing operations 
expressed as a percentage of revenue from 
continuing operations. 
COMMENT 
Return on Sales was well above target. 
Environmental & Analysis increased Return 
on Sales above 18%. Infrastructure Safety  
and Medical sustained a strong performance. 
Process Safety demonstrated its resilience 
despite tough market conditions. 
2017 TARGET
We aim to achieve a Return on Sales within the 
18% to 22% range while continuing to deliver 
profit growth.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Return on Sales is a measure of the value our 
customers place on our products and of our 
operational efficiency. High profitability supports 
the generation of high economic value.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
KPI DEFINITION 
ROTIC is defined as the post-tax return from 
continuing operations before amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on 
disposal of operations; and the effects of closure to 
future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension 
plans net of associated costs (2014 only) as a 
percentage of average shareholders’ funds. 
COMMENT 
Consistently high returns are in excess of our 
long-term Weighted Average Cost of Capital  
(WACC) of 8. 1% (2015: 7 .6%). In the year this KPI  
was adversely affected by the strength of the US 
Dollar increasing the Sterling value of goodwill and 
intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
2017 TARGET
A range of 12% to 17% is considered representative 
of the Board’s expectations over the long term to 
ensure a good balance between growth and returns.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
ROTIC performance, averaged over three 
financial years, is 50% of the performance 
condition attaching to the Company’s 
Performance Share Plan and the 2015 
Executive Share Plan.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
 
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Through careful selection of our market niches and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue and profit growth in the medium term. We buy 
companies with business and market characteristics similar to those of existing Halma operations. 
Acquired businesses have to be a good fit with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being 
value-enhancing financially.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
The measure of how successful we are in growing 
our business organically and by acquisition coupled 
with strong financial disciplines, including those 
related to tax and capital allocation, is captured in 
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Through careful selection of our market niches 
and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to 
achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue 
and profit growth in the medium term.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
We choose to operate in markets which are capable of delivering high returns. The ability to maintain 
these returns is a result of maintaining strong market and product positions sustained by continuing 
product and process innovation.
Organic profit growth %
(constant currency)
Acquisition profit growth % EPS growth % 
(adjusted earnings per share)
Organic revenue growth %
(constant currency)
Return on Sales % ROTIC % 
(Return on Total Invested Capital)
3%
Performance
≥5%
Target
8%
Performance
≥5%
Target
10%
Performance
≥10%
Target
6%
Performance
≥5%
Target
20.6%
Performance
≥18%
Target
15.6%
Performance
≥12%
Target
12 13 14 15 16
3* 3* 6* 7* 3
* Restated. See note 3 to the Accounts
12 13 14 15 16
0* 9* 1* 6* 8
* Restated. See KPI definition below
12 13 14 15 16
19 7 10 9 10
12 13 14 15 16
5* 2* 6* 5* 6
* Restated. See note 3 to the Accounts
12 13 14 15 16
20.8 20.8* 20.7 21.2 20.6
* After restatement
12 13 14 15 16
17.6 16.6* 16.7 16.3 15.6
* After restatement
KPI DEFINITION 
Organic profit growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in profit 
achieved in the current year compared with the  
prior year from continuing Group operations. The 
effect of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been eliminated.
COMMENT 
Organic profit growth at constant currency was 
less than our target. Growth of 3.4% included 
strong performances in Environmental & Analysis, 
Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors, with a 
decline in oil and gas markets adversely impacting 
Process Safety. 
2017 TARGET 
The Board has established a long-term organic 
growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above the 
blended long-term average growth rate of 
our markets.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Growth in organic profit is a key element of the 
economic value added performance which forms 
the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring 
consistent annual and longer-term growth, 
rewarding disciplined financial performance. 
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION 
Acquisition profit growth measures the annualised 
profit (net of financing costs) from acquisitions 
made in the year, measured at the date of 
acquisition, expressed as a percentage of prior 
year profit. Previously, the KPI was based on the 
annualised profit contributions from the current 
year’s and prior year’s acquisitions.
COMMENT 
Acquisition profit exceeded our target of 5% for 
the year following a record spend of £193m on 
four acquisitions. 2016 was an excellent year for 
acquisitions, financed through our strong cash 
flow and increased debt facilities.
2017 TARGET 
Acquisitions must meet our demanding criteria 
and we continue to have a strong pipeline of 
opportunities to meet our 5% growth target.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Growth in acquired profit is the second 
key element of the economic value added 
performance which forms the basis of the 
annual bonus plan, requiring consistent annual 
and longer-term growth, rewarding disciplined 
financial performance.
 READ MORE
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION
Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from 
continuing operations excluding the amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; 
profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects 
of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined 
benefit pension plans net of associated costs 
(2014 only); and associated tax thereon. 
COMMENT 
Performance was strong and met our target.
Currency translation had a positive impact  
on the year’s result.
2017 TARGET
We aim for the combination of organic and 
acquisition growth to exceed 10% per annum 
over the long term. The Directors consider that 
adjusted earnings represent a more consistent 
measure of underlying performance.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
EPS provides a clear link to the aims of the 
business growth strategy. It is a key financial  
driver for our business and provides a clear 
line of sight for our executives. EPS is 50% 
of the performance condition attaching to 
the Executive Share Plan introduced in 2015.
 READ MORE  
• Note 2 to the Accounts p121
KPI DEFINITION 
Organic revenue growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in revenue 
achieved in the current year compared with the 
prior year from continuing Group operations. The 
effect of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been eliminated.
COMMENT 
Organic growth at constant currency in revenue 
exceeded our target with growth in three sectors 
and all major geographic regions.
2017 TARGET
The Board has established a long-term minimum 
organic growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above 
the blended long-term average growth rate 
of our markets.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Organic growth in revenue contributes to the 
economic value added performance which forms 
the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring 
consistent annual and longer-term growth, 
rewarding disciplined financial performance.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties p30
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION
Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit 
before taxation from continuing operations 
expressed as a percentage of revenue from 
continuing operations. 
COMMENT 
Return on Sales was well above target. 
Environmental & Analysis increased Return 
on Sales above 18%. Infrastructure Safety  
and Medical sustained a strong performance. 
Process Safety demonstrated its resilience 
despite tough market conditions. 
2017 TARGET
We aim to achieve a Return on Sales within the 
18% to 22% range while continuing to deliver 
profit growth.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
Return on Sales is a measure of the value our 
customers place on our products and of our 
operational efficiency. High profitability supports 
the generation of high economic value.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
KPI DEFINITION 
ROTIC is defined as the post-tax return from 
continuing operations before amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on 
disposal of operations; and the effects of closure to 
future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension 
plans net of associated costs (2014 only) as a 
percentage of average shareholders’ funds. 
COMMENT 
Consistently high returns are in excess of our 
long-term Weighted Average Cost of Capital  
(WACC) of 8. 1% (2015: 7 .6%). In the year this KPI  
was adversely affected by the strength of the US 
Dollar increasing the Sterling value of goodwill and 
intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
2017 TARGET
A range of 12% to 17% is considered representative 
of the Board’s expectations over the long term to 
ensure a good balance between growth and returns.
REMUNERATION LINKAGE
ROTIC performance, averaged over three 
financial years, is 50% of the performance 
condition attaching to the Company’s 
Performance Share Plan and the 2015 
Executive Share Plan.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122 26 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Key Performance Indicators continued
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
 
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Strong cash generation provides the Group with 
freedom to pursue its strategic goals of organic 
growth, acquisitions and progressive dividends 
without becoming highly-leveraged.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
The safety, health and environmental markets  
in Asia and other developing regions are evolving 
quickly. We continue to invest in establishing local 
selling, technical and manufacturing resources 
to meet this current and future need.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
We have maintained high levels of R&D investment 
and spending on innovation. The successful 
introduction of new products is a key contributor to 
the Group’s ability to build competitive advantage 
and grow organically and internationally.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Halma conducts an annual survey of its 
employees to assess how well the Group’s  
values are aligned with its employees’  
current experiences and future aspirations.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Safety is critical and a major priority for the  
Group. Halma collects details of its worldwide 
reported health and safety incidents and 
encourages all Group companies to seek 
continuous improvement in their health  
and safety records and culture.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Halma development programmes provide  
key personnel with the necessary skills they  
need in their current and future roles; new 
programmes include non-executive director  
(NED) opportunities, enterprise programmes  
and sales management development,  
alongside our refreshed executive, manager  
and graduate programmes.
Cash generation % International revenue growth % Research and development % Values alignment (out of 10) Health & Safety
(Accident Frequency Rate)
Development programmes
(management development)
86%
Performance
≥85%
Target
7%
Performance
≥10%
Target
5.1%
Performance
≥4%
Target
5
Performance
≥5
Target
0.11
Performance
<0.09
Target
58%
Performance
>50%
Target
12 13 14 15 16
86 85* 89 87 86
* After restatement
12 13 14 15 16
11 14 9 16 7
12 13 14 15 16
4.7 5.0 4.7 4.8 5.1
12 13 14 15 16
6 5 5 6 5
12 13 14 15 16
0.22 0.20 0.09 0.15 0.11
12 13 14 15 16
54 56 51 60 58
KPI DEFINITION 
Cash generation is calculated using adjusted 
operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted 
operating profit. 
COMMENT 
Cash generation of 86% (2015: 87%) was 
in excess of the 85% target in the current year 
with strong cash performances across the Group. 
2017 TARGET 
The goal of Group cash inflow exceeding 85%  
of profit is a metric that has relevance at all levels  
of the organisation and aligns management action 
with Group needs. We ensure that strong internal 
cash flow and availability of external funding 
underpin our strategic goals of organic growth, 
acquisitions and progressive dividends.
 READ MORE  
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION 
Total sales to markets outside the UK, USA  
and Mainland Europe compared with the prior 
year. This KPI replaces the previous International 
Expansion KPI which measured these sales as 
a percentage of total Group revenue.
COMMENT 
Revenue outside the UK, USA and Mainland 
Europe increased by 7% which is below the  
KPI target with strong growth in developed 
markets. Good progress was made in Asia  
Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East  
but tough economic conditions and a major 
contract to South America in the prior year 
contributed to declining revenue there.
2017 TARGET 
The emphasis on international revenue growth 
at twice the rate of overall organic growth 
reinforces the importance of emerging markets 
and our strategy of establishing operations close 
to our end markets.
 READ MORE  
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 1 to the Accounts p118
KPI DEFINITION
Total research and development expenditure 
in the financial year (both that expensed and 
capitalised) as a percentage of revenue 
from continuing operations.
COMMENT 
Total spend in the year increased significantly 
by 19% to £41.2m (2015: £34.6m) and as  
a percentage of revenue increased to 5.1%.  
All sectors increased R&D expenditure, 
in particular, Medical.
2017 TARGET 
New products contribute strongly to organic 
growth, maintaining high returns and building 
strong market positions. The 4% minimum 
investment target is appropriate to the mix of 
product life cycles and technologies within Halma.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
 KPI DEFINITION 
The survey of Group employees looks for matching 
values in a comparison of the 10 current culture 
values with the equivalent 10 values employees 
want to see in their working culture.
COMMENT 
The results indicate consistent alignment over 
each year, meeting or exceeding the target  
of five or more matching values. Numbers of 
participants in the survey have increased by  
12% since last year.
2017 TARGET 
The goal for 2017 will be to continue to improve 
the Group’s communication of its values and to 
maintain the high rate of employee participation  
in such surveys.
 READ MORE
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Sustainability p48
KPI DEFINITION 
The year-to-date Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
is the total number of reportable* incidents in the 
period divided by the number of hours worked 
in that period by employees (including temporary 
staff and any overtime) multiplied by 100,000 
hours (representing the estimated number of 
working hours in an employee’s work lifetime). 
The AFR figure represents an indication of how 
many incidents an employee will have in his/her 
working life. 
COMMENT 
The Health & Safety AFR performance this  
year was 0.11 (2015: 0.15) representing an 
improvement on last year. We continue to review 
all reported incidents and there are no specific 
underlying patterns which cause concern.
2017 TARGET 
The target is maintained at 0.09 to match the 
health and safety performance which was 
achieved in 2014, with a view to ultimately 
setting a reportable incident target rate of zero.
 READ MORE  
• Sustainability p48
* Specified major injury incidents are reportable incidents 
which result in more than three working days lost
KPI DEFINITION 
Number of current employees having attended 
an in-house development programme compared 
with the estimated pool of qualifying participants.
COMMENT 
We met our target, with 58% of our qualifying 
participants having attended one of our 
development programmes. The performance 
metric is influenced by the introduction of new 
courses and new eligible employees joining 
the Group through acquisitions. Overall we are 
pleased with our performance and progress.
2017 TARGET 
Our range of new programmes, and the 
refreshment of existing programmes, indicate  
our continued commitment to achieving this KPI.
 READ MORE   
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Sustainability p48 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
 
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Strong cash generation provides the Group with 
freedom to pursue its strategic goals of organic 
growth, acquisitions and progressive dividends 
without becoming highly-leveraged.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
The safety, health and environmental markets  
in Asia and other developing regions are evolving 
quickly. We continue to invest in establishing local 
selling, technical and manufacturing resources 
to meet this current and future need.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
We have maintained high levels of R&D investment 
and spending on innovation. The successful 
introduction of new products is a key contributor to 
the Group’s ability to build competitive advantage 
and grow organically and internationally.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Halma conducts an annual survey of its 
employees to assess how well the Group’s  
values are aligned with its employees’  
current experiences and future aspirations.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Safety is critical and a major priority for the  
Group. Halma collects details of its worldwide 
reported health and safety incidents and 
encourages all Group companies to seek 
continuous improvement in their health  
and safety records and culture.
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Halma development programmes provide  
key personnel with the necessary skills they  
need in their current and future roles; new 
programmes include non-executive director  
(NED) opportunities, enterprise programmes  
and sales management development,  
alongside our refreshed executive, manager  
and graduate programmes.
Cash generation % International revenue growth % Research and development % Values alignment (out of 10) Health & Safety
(Accident Frequency Rate)
Development programmes
(management development)
86%
Performance
≥85%
Target
7%
Performance
≥10%
Target
5.1%
Performance
≥4%
Target
5
Performance
≥5
Target
0.11
Performance
<0.09
Target
58%
Performance
>50%
Target
12 13 14 15 16
86 85* 89 87 86
* After restatement
12 13 14 15 16
11 14 9 16 7
12 13 14 15 16
4.7 5.0 4.7 4.8 5.1
12 13 14 15 16
6 5 5 6 5
12 13 14 15 16
0.22 0.20 0.09 0.15 0.11
12 13 14 15 16
54 56 51 60 58
KPI DEFINITION 
Cash generation is calculated using adjusted 
operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted 
operating profit. 
COMMENT 
Cash generation of 86% (2015: 87%) was 
in excess of the 85% target in the current year 
with strong cash performances across the Group. 
2017 TARGET 
The goal of Group cash inflow exceeding 85%  
of profit is a metric that has relevance at all levels  
of the organisation and aligns management action 
with Group needs. We ensure that strong internal 
cash flow and availability of external funding 
underpin our strategic goals of organic growth, 
acquisitions and progressive dividends.
 READ MORE  
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 3 to the Accounts p122
KPI DEFINITION 
Total sales to markets outside the UK, USA  
and Mainland Europe compared with the prior 
year. This KPI replaces the previous International 
Expansion KPI which measured these sales as 
a percentage of total Group revenue.
COMMENT 
Revenue outside the UK, USA and Mainland 
Europe increased by 7% which is below the  
KPI target with strong growth in developed 
markets. Good progress was made in Asia  
Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East  
but tough economic conditions and a major 
contract to South America in the prior year 
contributed to declining revenue there.
2017 TARGET 
The emphasis on international revenue growth 
at twice the rate of overall organic growth 
reinforces the importance of emerging markets 
and our strategy of establishing operations close 
to our end markets.
 READ MORE  
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Financial Review p42
• Note 1 to the Accounts p118
KPI DEFINITION
Total research and development expenditure 
in the financial year (both that expensed and 
capitalised) as a percentage of revenue 
from continuing operations.
COMMENT 
Total spend in the year increased significantly 
by 19% to £41.2m (2015: £34.6m) and as  
a percentage of revenue increased to 5.1%.  
All sectors increased R&D expenditure, 
in particular, Medical.
2017 TARGET 
New products contribute strongly to organic 
growth, maintaining high returns and building 
strong market positions. The 4% minimum 
investment target is appropriate to the mix of 
product life cycles and technologies within Halma.
 READ MORE 
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
 KPI DEFINITION 
The survey of Group employees looks for matching 
values in a comparison of the 10 current culture 
values with the equivalent 10 values employees 
want to see in their working culture.
COMMENT 
The results indicate consistent alignment over 
each year, meeting or exceeding the target  
of five or more matching values. Numbers of 
participants in the survey have increased by  
12% since last year.
2017 TARGET 
The goal for 2017 will be to continue to improve 
the Group’s communication of its values and to 
maintain the high rate of employee participation  
in such surveys.
 READ MORE
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Sustainability p48
KPI DEFINITION 
The year-to-date Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
is the total number of reportable* incidents in the 
period divided by the number of hours worked 
in that period by employees (including temporary 
staff and any overtime) multiplied by 100,000 
hours (representing the estimated number of 
working hours in an employee’s work lifetime). 
The AFR figure represents an indication of how 
many incidents an employee will have in his/her 
working life. 
COMMENT 
The Health & Safety AFR performance this  
year was 0.11 (2015: 0.15) representing an 
improvement on last year. We continue to review 
all reported incidents and there are no specific 
underlying patterns which cause concern.
2017 TARGET 
The target is maintained at 0.09 to match the 
health and safety performance which was 
achieved in 2014, with a view to ultimately 
setting a reportable incident target rate of zero.
 READ MORE  
• Sustainability p48
* Specified major injury incidents are reportable incidents 
which result in more than three working days lost
KPI DEFINITION 
Number of current employees having attended 
an in-house development programme compared 
with the estimated pool of qualifying participants.
COMMENT 
We met our target, with 58% of our qualifying 
participants having attended one of our 
development programmes. The performance 
metric is influenced by the introduction of new 
courses and new eligible employees joining 
the Group through acquisitions. Overall we are 
pleased with our performance and progress.
2017 TARGET 
Our range of new programmes, and the 
refreshment of existing programmes, indicate  
our continued commitment to achieving this KPI.
 READ MORE   
• Chief Executive’s Strategic Review p4
• Sustainability p48 28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Risk Management and Internal Controls
Maintaining a robust risk  
and control framework
Group internal control system
The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control are summarised below:
Operating companies, with the oversight of their sector boards, carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions 
in place or proposed for each significant risk. A risk register is compiled from this information, against which operational risk action is monitored 
through to resolution and strategic risks are reported to the Group. Management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, 
documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks. 
Each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks 
facing it and the resultant actions. The relevant Sector Chief Executive or Sector Vice President chairs this meeting. Sector Chief Executives 
meet regularly with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and report on sectoral progress to the Executive Board. 
Financial and trading ‘warning signs’ are reported to Group and sector management. Weekly data on cash management, sales and orders are 
also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team. This framework is designed to provide an early 
warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of Group operations and an analysis 
of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group. The papers also cover progress against strategic objectives and shareholder-related 
issues. The Finance Director also submits a separate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting.
Regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged; cyclical and 
risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fed back to each company and 
followed up by senior finance executives and Sector Chief Executives. Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews 
is given to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee; senior finance staff also 
conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year-end results. We have a Group-wide IT policy 
supported by a programme of IT health checks. Group IT manages aspects of our cyber security risks and IT development needs.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of internal control. The Board 
receives regular reports from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as 
a basis for its annual review of internal control.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board meets regularly throughout the 
year and has adopted a schedule of matters 
which are required to be brought to it for 
decision. This procedure is intended to 
ensure that the Directors maintain full and 
effective control over all significant strategic, 
financial and organisational issues and is 
subject to routine review.
During the year, actions to strengthen the 
control environment continue to be taken 
centrally by Group management. The sector 
structure provides additional, dedicated 
personnel who supplement and reinforce our 
controls and the culture in which we operate 
within the subsidiaries themselves. The duties 
and responsibilities of management are 
continually refreshed as well as documented. 
The Group’s policies and procedures were 
moved to a secure web-based portal during 
the year and updated to be in a more 
user-friendly format. The portal also includes 
links to the additional guidance given to all 
subsidiary managing directors and subsidiary 
finance directors. Such guidance includes 
aspects ranging from our Group benefits and 
incentives to information related to the internal  
financial review procedures conducted  
to complement the operating control 
environment. We continue to strengthen  
the internal and external resources utilised  
in the identification of, and investigation into, 
potential acquisitions. Our approach and 
policies are particularly designed to ensure  
a rapid and successful integration following 
acquisition. The scope of the Group’s 
policies and the programme of compliance 
audits are regularly reviewed to ensure 
they are sufficient to address current risks. 
The Group placed additional emphasis on 
updating our business continuity plans over 
recent years ensuring that they are mutually 
complementary to our insurance programme.
The Group’s treasury-related policies are 
kept under review to ensure that appropriate 
accounting and banking arrangements 
are aligned with the Group’s growth and 
to ensure continued compliance with 
covenants and accounting requirements.
The Internal Audit function has operated 
independently since 2004, reporting to the 
Audit Committee. The team of three dedicated 
internal auditors, residing in the UK, USA and 
China, schedule visits to Group companies 
to conduct internal audit procedures which 
have recently been benchmarked to 
reflect changing circumstances, specific 
requirements and to enhance effectiveness. 
The results of each internal audit are 
documented for internal distribution and action 
with an executive summary going to the Audit 
Committee. The team may also be involved in 
any special investigations that may arise at the 
direction of the Company Secretary.
Group risk is mitigated by means of an 
operating structure which spreads the 
Group’s activities across a number of 
autonomous subsidiary companies. Each 
of these companies is overseen by sector 
executives and led by a high-quality board 
of directors including a finance executive. 
The introduction of internal non-executive 
director (NED) opportunities within the Group 
during 2017 will provide further, mutually 
beneficial, oversight of operations.
Embedding internal control and risk 
management within the operations of 
the business and dealing with areas of 
improvement which come to management’s 
and the Board’s attention is a continuous  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
process and one which is subject to 
rigorous scrutiny.
Group companies operate under a system of 
controls which includes but is not limited to:
• a defined organisational structure with  
an appropriate delegation of authority to 
operational management which ensures 
appropriate segregation of key duties; 
• the identification and appraisal of risks both 
formally, through the annual process of 
preparing business plans and budgets, 
through an annual detailed risk assessment 
carried out at local level and informally 
through close monitoring of operations; 
• a comprehensive financial reporting system, 
regularly enhanced, within which actual and 
forecast results are compared with approved 
budgets and the previous year’s figures on 
a monthly basis. Weekly cash/sales/orders 
reporting including details of financial 
institutions is also maintained within the 
financial reporting system, all of which is 
reviewed at both local, sector and Group level; 
• an investment evaluation procedure to ensure 
an appropriate level of approval for all capital 
expenditure and other capitalised costs; 
• self-certification by operating company  
and sector management of compliance 
and control issues with additional 
verification performed centrally; 
• a robust structure for electronic 
communication and conducting 
e-commerce to ensure that the Group 
is not adversely impacted by threats to 
its information technology infrastructure 
and to minimise potential for business 
disruptions. The Group has a wide 
range of measures and policies and  
a framework in place which includes  
a virtual private network covering over  
100 sites worldwide, secure firewalls,  
an IT security and threat monitoring 
system, information management  
audits, disaster recovery and a mobile 
devices management system; and 
• an acquisitions and disposals framework 
which governs the due diligence, 
negotiation, approval and integration 
processes to ensure that value-enhancing, 
quality investments are made in order to 
meet our strategic objectives.
See Viability Statement on page 68.
Group risk management
Sector boards
Senior Finance Executives Subsidiary company boards 
Chief Executive/Finance Director 
Executive Board 
Audit Committee
Company Secretary 
Internal Audit Whistleblowing 
Operational and ﬁnancial risk Compliance and monitoring
Board 
The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which is consistent with the Group’s 
structure. Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the risk  
review cycle throughout the year.
Board and Audit 
Committee
Executive Board 
and Senior Finance 
Executives
Subsidiary 
Companies
Top Down 
Strategic Risk Management
Bottom Up 
Operational Risk Management
 assessment of the effectiveness of risk management
systems across the Group; and
 reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
 reviewing completeness and consistency across
the sectors and adequacy of mitigation actions;
 consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures
across the businesses; and
 review/management/consolidation of operational
risks (both sector and business unit, delegated as
the Sector Chief Executive deems appropriate).
 reporting of signiﬁcant and emerging risks to the Group;
 identiﬁcation, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation
and monitoring of operational risks which are the
responsibility of each subsidiary company; and 
 identiﬁcation of strategic risks which are reported
to the Group.
 review and management of the strategic risks
of the Group with visibility of the sector risks;
 consideration of the environment in which the
Group operates; and
 setting the risk appetite of the Group.
 delivery of Group strategic actions; and
 monitoring Group key risk indicators.
 execution of any Group–level strategic actions;
and reporting on any identiﬁed key risks and
mitigation progress. 30 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Halma’s principal risks and uncertainties are detailed below and are supported by the robust risk management and internal control systems 
and procedures noted on pages 28 and 29.
Movements indicate management’s perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
Strategic 
objective Risk description
Risk 
appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Globalisation 
The global interconnectedness  
of operations poses wide-ranging 
challenges across the Group 
especially where businesses 
manage operational matters via 
remote locations; the increasing 
global spread of our businesses, 
particularly in China, requires 
additional vigilance over 
communication, culture, training 
and export controls/sanctions in 
order to anticipate and contain 
any vulnerabilities.
Medium High
• Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal 
control and divergence from overall Group 
strategy in remote operations, leading to 
businesses taking on more risks than intended 
or unexpected financial outcomes.
• Failure to comply with local laws and regulations 
in unfamiliar territories, leading to reputational 
issues and legal or regulatory disputes.
• Continued international growth increases risk.
• Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise 
resources efficiently.
• Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Group’s policy of autonomous management. We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
• The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises the importance the Group places on local knowledge and experience.
• The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
• Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review of the businesses. The right balance between  
autonomy and adherence to the overall objectives of the Group is a key function of the Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and  
Senior Finance Executives.
• Regular visits to remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit  
support local control.
• The Group’s geographic and product diversity reduces risk.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Competition 
The Group faces competition 
in the form of pricing, service, 
reliability and substitution.
Medium Medium
• Loss of market share due to price pressure 
and changing markets.
• Reduced financial performance arising from 
competitive threats both from third parties  
and customers bringing production in-house.
• By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward  
price pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
• We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff,  
we are better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
• The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers-to-entry.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Economic conditions  
In times of uncertain economic 
conditions, businesses face 
additional or elevated levels of 
risk. These include market and 
customer risk, customer default, 
fraud, supply chain risk and 
liquidity risk.
Medium High
• Reduced financial performance.
• Loss of market share.
• Unforeseen liabilities.
• Disruption of service to customers.
• Breaches of legal or regulatory requirements 
resulting in fines/penalties impacting the  
Group financially and reputationally.
• Potential impairment of goodwill.
• Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local knowledge is situated. The financial strength and availability of  
pooled finances within the Group mitigates local risks faced by operating companies as does the robust credit management processes  
in place across the Group.
• The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which require action.
• The Group’s geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory. The Group does not have significant  
operations, cash deposits or sources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Financial 
Funding 
A key risk is that the Group may  
run out of cash or not have access 
to adequate funding. In addition, 
cash deposits are required to be 
held in a secure form and location.
Low Medium
• Constraints on trading and/or acquiring 
new companies limiting the Group’s  
growth aspirations.
• Availability of additional funding in  
traditional debt markets.
• Permanent loss of shareholders’ funds 
and/or restrictions on dividend payments.
• Gearing has increased during the year.
• The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
• Cash needs are monitored regularly. In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the Group renewed and increased to £360m its five-year  
revolving credit facility in 2013 providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its current needs.
• The Group increased its funding capacity in 2016 via a US$250m US Private Placement.
• Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks.
Treasury 
Breaches of banking/USPP 
covenants and foreign currency risk 
are the most significant treasury-
related risks for the Group. In times 
of increased volatility this can 
have a significant impact on 
performance. The Group is 
exposed to a lesser extent to 
other treasury risks such as 
interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Medium Medium
• Volatile financial performance arising from 
translation of earnings from the Group’s 
increasing proportion of overseas operations or 
poorly-managed foreign exchange exposures.
• Deviation from core strategy through the  
use of speculative or overly complex  
financial instruments.
• Financial penalties, reputational damage 
and withdrawal of facilities arising from 
breach of banking/USPP covenants.
• Increased interest rate risk on higher 
forecast borrowings.
• The risk has increased because more of the Group’s profits are derived from non-Sterling currencies. Currency profits are not hedged. Currency 
hedging must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures. This requires  
the hedging of a substantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months (and in exceptional cases 24 months) ahead. Longer-term 
currency trends can only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
• The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
• We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and USPP and operate well within these covenants.
Pension deficit 
To meet our pension obligations, 
we must adequately fund our closed 
UK defined benefit pension plans.
Medium Medium
• Excessive consumption of cash,  
limiting investment in operations.
• Unexpected variability in the  
Company’s financial results.
• There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item. The Group’s strong cash flows  
and access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately managed.
• The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuary’s 
recommendations. Alternative means of reducing pension risk is evaluated in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
Halma’s principal risks and uncertainties are detailed below and are supported by the robust risk management and internal control systems 
and procedures noted on pages 28 and 29.
Movements indicate management’s perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
Strategic 
objective Risk description
Risk 
appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Globalisation 
The global interconnectedness  
of operations poses wide-ranging 
challenges across the Group 
especially where businesses 
manage operational matters via 
remote locations; the increasing 
global spread of our businesses, 
particularly in China, requires 
additional vigilance over 
communication, culture, training 
and export controls/sanctions in 
order to anticipate and contain 
any vulnerabilities.
Medium High
• Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal 
control and divergence from overall Group 
strategy in remote operations, leading to 
businesses taking on more risks than intended 
or unexpected financial outcomes.
• Failure to comply with local laws and regulations 
in unfamiliar territories, leading to reputational 
issues and legal or regulatory disputes.
• Continued international growth increases risk.
• Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise 
resources efficiently.
• Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Group’s policy of autonomous management. We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
• The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises the importance the Group places on local knowledge and experience.
• The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
• Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review of the businesses. The right balance between  
autonomy and adherence to the overall objectives of the Group is a key function of the Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and  
Senior Finance Executives.
• Regular visits to remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit  
support local control.
• The Group’s geographic and product diversity reduces risk.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Competition 
The Group faces competition 
in the form of pricing, service, 
reliability and substitution.
Medium Medium
• Loss of market share due to price pressure 
and changing markets.
• Reduced financial performance arising from 
competitive threats both from third parties  
and customers bringing production in-house.
• By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward  
price pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
• We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff,  
we are better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
• The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers-to-entry.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Economic conditions  
In times of uncertain economic 
conditions, businesses face 
additional or elevated levels of 
risk. These include market and 
customer risk, customer default, 
fraud, supply chain risk and 
liquidity risk.
Medium High
• Reduced financial performance.
• Loss of market share.
• Unforeseen liabilities.
• Disruption of service to customers.
• Breaches of legal or regulatory requirements 
resulting in fines/penalties impacting the  
Group financially and reputationally.
• Potential impairment of goodwill.
• Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local knowledge is situated. The financial strength and availability of  
pooled finances within the Group mitigates local risks faced by operating companies as does the robust credit management processes  
in place across the Group.
• The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which require action.
• The Group’s geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory. The Group does not have significant  
operations, cash deposits or sources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Financial 
Funding 
A key risk is that the Group may  
run out of cash or not have access 
to adequate funding. In addition, 
cash deposits are required to be 
held in a secure form and location.
Low Medium
• Constraints on trading and/or acquiring 
new companies limiting the Group’s  
growth aspirations.
• Availability of additional funding in  
traditional debt markets.
• Permanent loss of shareholders’ funds 
and/or restrictions on dividend payments.
• Gearing has increased during the year.
• The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
• Cash needs are monitored regularly. In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the Group renewed and increased to £360m its five-year  
revolving credit facility in 2013 providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its current needs.
• The Group increased its funding capacity in 2016 via a US$250m US Private Placement.
• Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks.
Treasury 
Breaches of banking/USPP 
covenants and foreign currency risk 
are the most significant treasury-
related risks for the Group. In times 
of increased volatility this can 
have a significant impact on 
performance. The Group is 
exposed to a lesser extent to 
other treasury risks such as 
interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Medium Medium
• Volatile financial performance arising from 
translation of earnings from the Group’s 
increasing proportion of overseas operations or 
poorly-managed foreign exchange exposures.
• Deviation from core strategy through the  
use of speculative or overly complex  
financial instruments.
• Financial penalties, reputational damage 
and withdrawal of facilities arising from 
breach of banking/USPP covenants.
• Increased interest rate risk on higher 
forecast borrowings.
• The risk has increased because more of the Group’s profits are derived from non-Sterling currencies. Currency profits are not hedged. Currency 
hedging must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures. This requires  
the hedging of a substantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months (and in exceptional cases 24 months) ahead. Longer-term 
currency trends can only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
• The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
• We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and USPP and operate well within these covenants.
Pension deficit 
To meet our pension obligations, 
we must adequately fund our closed 
UK defined benefit pension plans.
Medium Medium
• Excessive consumption of cash,  
limiting investment in operations.
• Unexpected variability in the  
Company’s financial results.
• There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item. The Group’s strong cash flows  
and access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately managed.
• The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuary’s 
recommendations. Alternative means of reducing pension risk is evaluated in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk 32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Strategic 
objective Risk description
Risk 
appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Cyber security/Information 
Technology/Business 
interruption 
Group and operational 
management depend on timely 
and reliable information from our  
IT systems to run their businesses. 
We seek to ensure continuous 
availability, security and operation 
of those information systems. 
Cyber threats continue to show 
an increasing trend.
Low High
• Delay or impact on decision making through 
lack of availability of sound data or disruption 
in/denial of service.
• Reduced service to customers due to poor 
information handling or interruption of business.
• Prevention, detection and containment of 
global threats to systems and critical 
information are inadequate.
• Loss of commercially sensitive and/or 
personal information.
• Intended and unintended actions of employees 
cause disruption, including fraud.
• There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into Group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
• A small central resource, Halma IT Services, assists Group companies with strategic IT needs and ensures adequate IT security policies are used 
across the Group.
• An IT security committee was set up in December 2012 comprising central and subsidiary IT personnel.
• Halma IT has been ISO 27001: 2013 certified for its information security management systems.
• Regular IT health checks are conducted. Comprehensive IT systems monitoring was introduced in 2014.
• Cyber risk and security is a regular Board agenda item addressing the landscape as it evolves.
• External penetration testing is utilised and the rollout of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes has been completed.
• Business continuity plans exist for each business unit and with ongoing testing.
• Education/awareness of cyber threats continues to ensure Group employees protect themselves and Group assets.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Acquisitions 
The identification and purchase 
of businesses which meet our 
demanding financial and growth 
criteria are an important part of our 
strategy for developing the Group, 
as is ensuring the new businesses 
are rapidly integrated into the Group.
Medium High
• Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high-quality 
businesses to meet our strategic growth target.
• Failure to deliver expected results resulting 
from poor acquisition selection.
• Failure to identify new markets in which 
to expand.
• Reduced financial performance arising from 
failure to integrate acquisitions into the Group. 
• Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to 
understand acquisition targets fully.
• The sector restructuring in April 2014 freed up additional resource to focus on M&A activities supported by the appointment of dedicated sector 
acquisition personnel. Such resources remain under constant review.
• We acquire small and medium sized businesses whose technology and markets we know well or who operate in adjacent markets.
• Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing acquisitions in their business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported by sector 
and central resources, as necessary. We employ detailed post-acquisition integration plans.
• Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, 
legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
• Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Laws and regulations  
Group operations are subject to 
wide-ranging laws and regulations 
including business conduct, 
employment, export controls/
sanctions, environmental and 
health and safety legislation. There 
is also exposure to product litigation 
and contractual risk. The laws and 
regulations we are exposed to as 
our businesses expand around the 
world increase each year.
Low High
• Unfavourable changes in laws and regulations 
that restrict the export of our products.
• Reputational damage and/or loss arising 
from inadvertent non-compliance.
• Diversion of management resources resulting 
in lost opportunities.
• Penalties arising from breach of laws 
and regulations.
• Loss of revenue and profit associated 
with contractual disputes.
• The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality management resources and the strong 
focus on quality control over products and processes in each operating business help to protect us from product failure, litigation, fraudulent activities 
and contractual issues.
• Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and our performance in this area is good. Health and Safety 
policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance 
compliance. Our well-established policies on bribery and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with  
best practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and externally, via appropriate clauses included in third-party agreements.
• Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories of insurable risk. Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to  
contractual liability.
• The Group’s whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotline assist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
• Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary 
to build a direct presence.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Succession planning  
and staff quality 
Group performance is dependent 
on having high-quality leaders at all 
levels and an organisation allowing 
us to continue to grow through 
acquisition as well as driving 
organic growth.
Low Medium
• Failure to recruit and to retain key staff 
leading to reduced innovation and progress 
in the business.
• Unethical actions of staff causing reputational 
damage to the Group.
• Acquisition growth limited due to our 
organisation’s and leaders’ inability to 
effectively manage acquisition integration.
• International growth increasing the need for 
high-quality local talent.
• Group development programmes are under continuous development to ensure they deliver enhanced skills for executives and middle managers  
as needed in their current and future roles.
• Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist high-quality hiring and development.
• The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals with Group values.
• The Group Talent Director assists the identification and development of Group executives.
• Ongoing focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwide to better meet our markets’ needs and provide sufficient opportunities  
for advancement as well as clear succession planning.
• Considerable time spent assessing senior management talent and establishing better processes to improve the talent pipeline has advanced our 
succession planning and talent quality.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Research & Development and 
Intellectual Property strategy 
New, high-quality products are 
critical to our organic growth and 
underpin our ability to earn high 
margins and high returns over the 
long term.
Medium Medium
• Loss of market share resulting from product 
obsolescence and failure to innovate to meet 
customer needs.
• Loss of market share resulting from a failure 
to protect key intellectual property.
• Loss of market share resulting from product 
quality issues including the necessity to  
recall/replace product.
• Diversion of resources to address 
related matters.
• Devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating businesses spreads risk and ensures that the people best placed to service 
the customers’ needs are driving innovation.
• New product development ‘best practice’ is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is 
tracked monthly. This ensures that the collective experience and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
• Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that the Group’s significant projects are aligned 
to overall strategy.
• Workforce quality and retention is a central objective. This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
• Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
• Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group, inter alia, via the Halma Innovation Awards.
Movements indicate management’s perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33
Strategic 
objective Risk description
Risk 
appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Cyber security/Information 
Technology/Business 
interruption 
Group and operational 
management depend on timely 
and reliable information from our  
IT systems to run their businesses. 
We seek to ensure continuous 
availability, security and operation 
of those information systems. 
Cyber threats continue to show 
an increasing trend.
Low High
• Delay or impact on decision making through 
lack of availability of sound data or disruption 
in/denial of service.
• Reduced service to customers due to poor 
information handling or interruption of business.
• Prevention, detection and containment of 
global threats to systems and critical 
information are inadequate.
• Loss of commercially sensitive and/or 
personal information.
• Intended and unintended actions of employees 
cause disruption, including fraud.
• There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into Group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
• A small central resource, Halma IT Services, assists Group companies with strategic IT needs and ensures adequate IT security policies are used 
across the Group.
• An IT security committee was set up in December 2012 comprising central and subsidiary IT personnel.
• Halma IT has been ISO 27001: 2013 certified for its information security management systems.
• Regular IT health checks are conducted. Comprehensive IT systems monitoring was introduced in 2014.
• Cyber risk and security is a regular Board agenda item addressing the landscape as it evolves.
• External penetration testing is utilised and the rollout of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes has been completed.
• Business continuity plans exist for each business unit and with ongoing testing.
• Education/awareness of cyber threats continues to ensure Group employees protect themselves and Group assets.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
GROW
ACQUIRE
Acquisitions 
The identification and purchase 
of businesses which meet our 
demanding financial and growth 
criteria are an important part of our 
strategy for developing the Group, 
as is ensuring the new businesses 
are rapidly integrated into the Group.
Medium High
• Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high-quality 
businesses to meet our strategic growth target.
• Failure to deliver expected results resulting 
from poor acquisition selection.
• Failure to identify new markets in which 
to expand.
• Reduced financial performance arising from 
failure to integrate acquisitions into the Group. 
• Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to 
understand acquisition targets fully.
• The sector restructuring in April 2014 freed up additional resource to focus on M&A activities supported by the appointment of dedicated sector 
acquisition personnel. Such resources remain under constant review.
• We acquire small and medium sized businesses whose technology and markets we know well or who operate in adjacent markets.
• Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing acquisitions in their business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported by sector 
and central resources, as necessary. We employ detailed post-acquisition integration plans.
• Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, 
legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
• Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Laws and regulations  
Group operations are subject to 
wide-ranging laws and regulations 
including business conduct, 
employment, export controls/
sanctions, environmental and 
health and safety legislation. There 
is also exposure to product litigation 
and contractual risk. The laws and 
regulations we are exposed to as 
our businesses expand around the 
world increase each year.
Low High
• Unfavourable changes in laws and regulations 
that restrict the export of our products.
• Reputational damage and/or loss arising 
from inadvertent non-compliance.
• Diversion of management resources resulting 
in lost opportunities.
• Penalties arising from breach of laws 
and regulations.
• Loss of revenue and profit associated 
with contractual disputes.
• The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality management resources and the strong 
focus on quality control over products and processes in each operating business help to protect us from product failure, litigation, fraudulent activities 
and contractual issues.
• Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and our performance in this area is good. Health and Safety 
policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance 
compliance. Our well-established policies on bribery and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with  
best practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and externally, via appropriate clauses included in third-party agreements.
• Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories of insurable risk. Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to  
contractual liability.
• The Group’s whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotline assist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
• Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary 
to build a direct presence.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Succession planning  
and staff quality 
Group performance is dependent 
on having high-quality leaders at all 
levels and an organisation allowing 
us to continue to grow through 
acquisition as well as driving 
organic growth.
Low Medium
• Failure to recruit and to retain key staff 
leading to reduced innovation and progress 
in the business.
• Unethical actions of staff causing reputational 
damage to the Group.
• Acquisition growth limited due to our 
organisation’s and leaders’ inability to 
effectively manage acquisition integration.
• International growth increasing the need for 
high-quality local talent.
• Group development programmes are under continuous development to ensure they deliver enhanced skills for executives and middle managers  
as needed in their current and future roles.
• Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist high-quality hiring and development.
• The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals with Group values.
• The Group Talent Director assists the identification and development of Group executives.
• Ongoing focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwide to better meet our markets’ needs and provide sufficient opportunities  
for advancement as well as clear succession planning.
• Considerable time spent assessing senior management talent and establishing better processes to improve the talent pipeline has advanced our 
succession planning and talent quality.
INNOVATE
EMPOWER
ACQUIRE
GROW
Research & Development and 
Intellectual Property strategy 
New, high-quality products are 
critical to our organic growth and 
underpin our ability to earn high 
margins and high returns over the 
long term.
Medium Medium
• Loss of market share resulting from product 
obsolescence and failure to innovate to meet 
customer needs.
• Loss of market share resulting from a failure 
to protect key intellectual property.
• Loss of market share resulting from product 
quality issues including the necessity to  
recall/replace product.
• Diversion of resources to address 
related matters.
• Devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating businesses spreads risk and ensures that the people best placed to service 
the customers’ needs are driving innovation.
• New product development ‘best practice’ is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is 
tracked monthly. This ensures that the collective experience and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
• Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that the Group’s significant projects are aligned 
to overall strategy.
• Workforce quality and retention is a central objective. This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
• Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
• Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group, inter alia, via the Halma Innovation Awards.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk 34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sector Review
Products which protect assets and people at work. 
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical processes. 
Instruments which detect flammable and hazardous gases. 
Explosion protection and corrosion monitoring products.
Philippe Felten
Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety
We met the challenges in the oil and gas sector by focusing 
on a continuing strategy of product and end-market 
diversification, geographic expansion and market-leading 
customer service. New product R&D investment to drive 
diversification was maintained. At the same time, we carried 
out rigorous overhead control and reorganised management 
to align our businesses with changing market conditions. 
Performance
KPIs 2016
Group
target
Revenue growth
1
(1.8%) –
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) (5.3%) >5%
Profit growth
1
 (11.6%) –
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) (14.8%) >5%
Return on Sales
2
 25.4% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
3.7% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 155 159 127 126 122
Profit 40 45 35 32 29
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the  
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation  
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see note 1 to the Accounts).
Revenue % of Group
19%
Profit % of Group
22%
Process Safety
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS
The underlying long-term drivers in our Process Safety markets are 
unchanged, despite challenging market conditions. We expect them 
to remain the key growth factors:
• increasing and more stringent global health, safety 
and environmental regulations
• population growth and industrialisation stimulating rising energy demand
• increasing development, complexity and geographic spread 
of energy resources and their safety requirements
The global expectation of improvements in workplace health and safety 
is backed by government occupational safety and health programmes 
worldwide and continually increasing regulation. This will continue to drive 
long-term growth in our target process safety niches at rates above general 
economic growth.
The dramatic fall in oil prices – 60% down from their high point in 2014 – 
was caused by oversupply combined with lower demand due to slowing 
economic growth, particularly in China. Oil price decline has had  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
a considerable impact on the oil and gas 
sector and on the wider global economy. 
Upstream capital expenditure (exploration  
and production) by the oil majors has been 
cut significantly, with many projects postponed. 
Capital investment in longer-term midstream 
and downstream projects (storage, processing 
and distribution), where our products have 
most exposure, is continuing. 
Current market conditions are not expected 
to affect worldwide government and local 
authority programmes of imposing stricter 
legislation to protect people and the 
environment. We do not anticipate significant 
change in oil and gas upstream capital 
expenditure during 2016/17 . Our businesses 
will continue to focus on market segments 
where investment continues and where our 
technical know-how translates into improved 
safety and operational efficiency for customers. 
Midstream petrochemical and chemical 
processors have benefited significantly from 
falling oil prices due to cheaper feedstocks. 
In these markets we expect continued 
investment in raising safety standards 
and we expect to benefit from this trend. 
Our businesses focusing on machine 
automation, sequential equipment control 
and gas detection have minor revenue 
exposure to oil and gas. These companies 
continued to grow strongly throughout 
2015/16 and we are confident of continued 
growth in 2016/17 . Innovation, deep 
understanding of customer applications  
and continuously improving geographic 
support are the main drivers for growth  
in the non-oil Process Safety markets. 
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS 
We performed well in US and Asian non-oil 
markets and these territories remain key 
growth targets for this sector. India is still a 
growth market where demand for improved 
safety throughout the process industries is 
rising and we anticipate stronger emphasis 
on safety and environmental protection 
regulation in the medium term. 
Europe was stable due to its flat economy 
but we expect to expand our position with 
our recently merged and strengthened 
business units.
In China our businesses are marketing 
collaboratively with shared sales teams 
and service facilities. This will reinforce our 
presence and deliver greater penetration in 
this market. The Tianjin chemical warehouse 
explosion in 2015, in which 173 people died, 
has prompted the Chinese government 
to raise safety standards in hazardous 
environments and actively enforce 
existing regulations.
In oil markets, the mature and declining 
North Sea and the USA will continue to be 
challenging. Production volumes are now 
falling even in the previously resilient US 
shale oil industry. 
While we expect the upstream oil market will 
remain subdued on a global basis, there are 
opportunities in Asia and the Middle East 
where the activity level remains attractive.
STRATEGY
Our strategy for growth in the Process Safety 
sector continues to focus on:
• investment in new products to diversify our 
end markets and meet local market needs
• geographic market expansion via shared 
regional sector hubs
• acquisitions, predominantly in adjacent 
markets with low oil and gas exposure
During 2015/16 we combined several 
companies with similar end markets to raise 
operating efficiency and support growth in 
chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, 
and food and beverage markets around the 
globe. The strategic goals were to:
• speed up product innovation 
• increase market and geographic 
diversification
• improve customer services
Two businesses that specialise in safety 
control systems for process valves were 
merged to create a strong and innovative 
valve management company. The merger  
will help accelerate product innovation and 
improved control technologies to make valve 
operation simpler, more efficient and safer.
Management of three of our machinery 
access safety businesses (based in the UK, 
USA and France) has been integrated with  
a single board. Each company continues  
to operate with its established branding  
and local manufacture, but R&D has been 
centralised. This strategy reinforces our ability 
to add value through innovation but maintains 
a local footprint so that close contact with 
customers remains a strength. 
Our Process Safety businesses will continue 
to invest in R&D with an increased focus 
on understanding local customer needs, 
particularly in the new markets we enter.  
We encourage collaborative sharing of 
market intelligence about routes to market, 
sales channels, tender projects, OEM 
customers and end-users. 
Our corrosion monitoring business,  
acquired in 2014, was impacted by the  
oil price fall and reduced capital and 
operating spend by customers. We have 
reorganised the business’ structure and 
already see benefits in terms of market  
reach and increased efficiency.
PERFORMANCE 
Revenue declined by 2% to £155m (2015: 
£159m) and profit fell by 12% to £40m (2015: 
£45m). At constant currency, organic revenue 
was down 5% and profit was down 15%. 
Return on sales was 25.4% (2015: 28.3%).
Half of our Process Safety sector businesses 
are exposed to markets affected by the  
oil price. Many customers were forced to  
cut capital expenditure which negatively 
impacted our revenue. The other half of the 
sector, including gas detection, machine 
automation and sequential safety, delivered 
growth in line with expectations. We grew 
revenue in the UK, US and China while 
facing more challenging conditions in 
Europe and Australia.
Our companies active in valve management 
and pressure management have delivered 
consistent growth in recent years, driven by 
rising energy demand. In 2015/16 we faced 
significant capex reduction in the upstream 
oil and gas sector. 
R&D spend in the sector increased to  
3.7% of revenue and focused on delivering 
products and solutions that support our 
market diversification strategy. In addition,  
we have added monitoring capabilities 
allowing digital data communication with  
our safety-critical products.
OUTLOOK
Cost reduction and the diversification  
strategy focusing on, for instance, the 
chemical, pharmaceutical, and food and 
beverage process markets, combined  
with structural management changes, will  
let us make progress. Continued growth 
in our non-energy niches – machine 
automation, gas detection and sequential 
safety control systems – will continue to 
support sector growth.
We see growth opportunities for our gas 
safety products in niche applications and we 
expect growth in 2016/17 due to improved 
market intelligence and better sales 
execution, particularly in export markets.
Well-designed process safety systems 
have the dual role of increasing safety  
while maintaining high productivity. The 
evolution of monitored process safety 
systems incorporating sensors and digital 
data communications for alarm triggering 
opens new possibilities to position our value 
proposition: raising production process 
efficiency combined with regulatory 
safety compliance.
There is a clear trend for greater regulation 
in the chemical and petrochemical markets, 
and this will continue to drive demand for our 
process safety solutions. Our Process Safety 
acquisition policy is to acquire in high growth 
sectors relatively immune to commodity 
price cyclicality.
We do not expect recovery in oil and gas 
customer spend during 2016/17 . The benefits 
of our cost reduction and diversification efforts 
should help to mitigate these unfavourable 
market conditions as we move through the 
coming year. 36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sector Review
Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public 
spaces, transportation and commercial buildings. Fire and smoke 
detectors, fire detection and suppression systems, security sensors 
and audible/visual warning devices. Sensors used on automatic doors 
and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Nigel Trodd
Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety
The Infrastructure Safety sector delivered strong revenue and 
profit growth in 2015/16. Our results benefited from good 
performances from both established and recently acquired 
businesses. Firetrace LLC was acquired in October 2015, 
adding fire suppression products to our global fire portfolio.
Performance
KPIs 2016
Group
target
Revenue growth
1
13.2% –
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 6.3% >5%
Profit growth
1
 12.3% –
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 4.5% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 21.2% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
5.3% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 265 234 220 205 204
Profit 56 50 44 42 39
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the  
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation  
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see note 1 to the Accounts).
Revenue % of Group
33%
Profit % of Group
31%
Infrastructure Safety
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS 
Increasing health and safety regulation and rising safety awareness in both 
developed and developing regions is the primary driver in our Infrastructure 
Safety sector. Customer demand in this sector is also driven by:
• continuing global trends of population ageing, urbanisation 
and population growth
• economic growth in the developing world leading to increased 
investment in infrastructure and modernisation
• increasing desire for wireless connectivity, enabling automation 
in ‘smart’ buildings
Governments throughout the world continue to introduce increasingly 
stringent health and safety regulations. In mature markets, safety standards 
are constantly updated and compliance becomes increasingly demanding 
for our customers. For example, the adoption of new standards is advancing 
technology in elevator phones and door detectors which will stimulate market 
growth. Developing markets increasingly adopt and enforce globally-
recognised safety standards in domestic, public and industrial environments. 
This includes the industrial high-speed door market which shows a clear trend  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
towards the use of more sensors, not only  
to activate the door but also to increase 
safety around the door area.
Urbanisation in Asia continues to drive 
demand for high-rise properties and, 
although new elevator installations in China 
have declined slightly for the first time in over 
10 years, growth in all other regions mitigates 
the global position. Over the next five years 
the number of new elevator installations is 
expected to remain relatively flat. Currently 
over half of elevator market revenue comes 
from maintenance and refurbishment and 
this is set to continue its current growth 
trajectory of around 5% per year.
An increasing focus on home security is 
driving market growth in wireless security 
systems that often integrate fire detection as 
a secondary function. We are establishing 
ourselves as a major wireless smoke detector 
supplier in this sizeable, growing market. 
The automatic door market is also evolving 
towards system integration. Our ability to 
link up with alarm and building management 
systems and with the outside world in general 
is becoming an increasingly important part of 
our strategy. 
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS
Our automatic door control products 
continued to penetrate more geographic 
markets. Action has been taken in Eastern 
Europe, the Nordics, South America, 
Canada, Australia, Japan, India and the 
Middle East. Dedicated resources have 
been put in place to fuel our growth in 
those regions. A new regional sales office 
in Singapore was established in 2015. Our 
global account management and local 
presence allows us to efficiently supply  
and support those regions. Additionally,  
we actively seek local distributors to grow  
our market share. 
The EMEA and US fire detection markets 
have predicted growth rates of 4% which, 
together with increasing our market share, 
provides healthy growth opportunities. China 
is projected to have the fastest growing fire 
detection market with growth estimated to 
be over 8% per year. South East Asia is also 
exhibiting strong growth of over 7%.
China remains a key growth market for our 
elevator products. As it matures from a 
market predominately dependent on new 
installations, to one driven by maintenance 
and refurbishment, the market will continue 
to grow. The mature western markets are 
forecast to continue to grow broadly in line 
with GDP while the rest of Asia-Pacific 
(including India) is forecast to grow in the 
region of 10%.
In security, we have a strong position in 
the UK market. There is an increasing 
contribution from India where many new 
bank branches are being built outside major 
cities and all are required to install intruder 
alarm systems.
STRATEGY
In automatic door sensors our strategy is 
based on the application of our core 
competency – detecting people, vehicles  
and objects – into a broader range of markets 
such as transport and security. We have 
developed novel new laser-based sensor 
platforms which are enabling us to grow 
market share in our core pedestrian door 
market and open up new opportunities.
Halma’s fire companies are increasingly 
focused on meeting customers’ needs by 
supplying systems in addition to our system 
components, such as fire detectors. The 
acquisition of Advanced Electronics last year 
has accelerated this approach. The US 
market continues to deliver strong returns 
and this will be boosted by the introduction 
of significant new products over the next 
few years. In China we are focusing on the 
upper market segment as this important 
market continues to grow and is becoming 
more regulated. 
Despite the changes in regulatory standards 
for elevator door detectors, this remains a 
market with price pressure, especially on  
new installations. However, as maintenance 
and refurbishment increasingly becomes the 
main global market our focus on premium 
products will, over time, increase sales and 
margins. We continue to diversify into other 
sections of the elevator market, namely LCD 
displays and elevator phones. The global 
market for phones is estimated to be around 
the same size as the elevator door detector 
market and the in-car display market is at 
least twice the size.
Our security sensors business growth 
strategy is based on new product innovation 
which provides added functionality and ease 
of installation. We increased investment in the 
development of new wireless intrusion 
detection products and associated ‘smart’ 
security and building automation systems.
PERFORMANCE 
The sector delivered strong revenue and 
profit growth in 2015/16. Revenue grew by 
13% to £265m (2015: £234m) and profit rose 
by 12% to £56m (2015: £50m). At constant 
currency, organic revenue was up 6% and 
profit up 5%. We continue to exceed Group 
targets on Return on Capital Employed and 
cash generation. 
Return on Sales remained strong at 21.2%, 
due primarily to successful new product 
launches and an effective balance between 
investment and cost control to maintain 
margins. Revenue in all major markets 
increased during the year, with 4% growth 
in the UK and 48% in Africa, Near and Middle 
East. In the USA we achieved 39% growth.
Our door sensors business performed well 
in all segments, driven by increased market 
demand for safety around the door and 
an enlarged customer base. Our strategy  
of diversification, with its focus on the 
transportation and security market, also 
delivered strong growth thanks to increased 
demand for sensor applications based on 
our advanced laser technology.
Our fire business surpassed the previous 
year’s performance. The first full year of 
the Advanced Electronics acquisition went 
well and the company performed above 
expectations. Firetrace met expectations 
in the first six months post acquisition. 
Due to increased competition, especially in 
China, demand for our elevator door sensors 
was lower and sales of our elevator displays 
were flat. However, there was strong growth 
in sales of our telephone products. 
In Security, we experienced a challenging 
year, due primarily to currency headwinds 
in our two major market areas, Europe 
and South Africa. 
OUTLOOK
Our door sensors business is expected  
to continue its growth in all regions.  
We will continue to invest in geographic  
growth and in all segments, supported by 
ongoing investment in new technologies,  
the development of new competitive 
products and sales and marketing.
The outlook for our fire companies is strong, 
with a growing market and several new 
products on the horizon.
Profitability is expected to stabilise in elevator 
safety due to a more regional-based sales 
structure and an increased focus on new 
product development.
In security markets, we foresee a recovery 
due primarily to a higher level of interest in 
wireless security systems and continued 
growth of the ‘smart buildings’ market.
We have a pipeline of potential acquisitions 
and aim to continue to add complementary 
businesses to the sector. The sector expects 
to make progress in the year ahead. 38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sector Review
Medical
Adam Meyers
Sector Chief Executive, Medical
The Medical sector delivered good organic revenue and  
profit growth in all of our niches, reaching record revenue  
and profit levels yet again. Profit and revenue growth,  
ROS and ROCE continue well above Group targets. We 
continued to strengthen the Medical sector organisation  
to support organic growth and acquisition activity.
Revenue allocated to R&D has increased, strengthening  
our innovative technology development pipeline and helping 
to fuel revenue growth. Despite this and other investments 
our cash contribution was still above Group target. 
Three new businesses were acquired during the year. 
We continue to focus on acquiring in this sector.
Performance
KPIs 2016
Group
target
Revenue growth
1
17.4% –
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 9.8% >5%
Profit growth
1
 13.9% –
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 9.1% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 26.0% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
4.5% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 199 169 163 136 100
Profit 52 45 42 36 26
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the  
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation  
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see note 1 to the Accounts).
Revenue % of Group
25%
Profit % of Group
28%
Products which enhance the quality of life for patients and improve the quality 
of care delivered by providers. Devices that assess eye health, assist with eye 
surgery and primary care applications. Critical fluidic components used by 
medical diagnostic OEMs and laboratories. Sensor technologies used in 
hospitals to track assets and support patient and staff safety.
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS
The Medical sector growth driver of increasing demand for healthcare 
is underpinned by:
• worldwide population ageing and increasing life expectancy 
• increasing prevalence of diabetes, obesity and hypertension 
• increasing healthcare access in developing economies 
• new medical diagnostic technologies
• new or improved surgical and pharmaceutical therapies 
Global demand for medical devices is forecast to continue to grow by about 
5% per year for the next few years with the highest growth of 8.5% in Asia. 
A steady rise in the proportion of the global population aged over 60 
drives demand for healthcare, in both developed and developing countries. 
Because eyesight problems and high blood pressure are both age-related, 
population ageing is a key driver for our ophthalmology and hypertension 
management businesses.  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39
A third of American adults suffer from high 
blood pressure; this chronic disease is the 
primary, or contributing, cause of over 2.4 
million American deaths each year. The 
prevalence of obesity throughout the world 
has almost doubled in the past 25 years 
leading to increases in both hypertension-
related illness and diabetes-related 
eye disorders. 
In China about 325 million adults have high 
blood pressure (the primary cardiovascular 
disease risk factor). Half of Chinese adults with 
hypertension are unaware of their condition 
and only 34% use anti-hypertensive drugs. 
Cataract surgery is one of the most frequent 
surgical operations carried out worldwide. 
The estimated 20 million cataract operations 
carried out globally each year is forecast 
to grow by 5% annually until 2019. 
Hospitals in both developed and developing 
markets are under pressure to improve 
patient outcomes, reduce costs, improve 
throughput and ensure safety of staff and 
patients. Our Real Time Location Systems 
(RTLS) let hospital managers track and 
monitor the location of patients, equipment 
and staff to cut costs and improve patient 
care. The global market for RTLS is forecast 
to grow at about 33% per year between 
2015 and 2020. 
Liquid handling is the principal process in 
laboratory automation and demand for our 
critical fluidic components is poised to grow 
at a CAGR of over 6%, at least until 2020.  
The largest geographic markets for laboratory 
automation are North America and Europe 
while Asia is expected to have the highest 
growth rate. 
Each year the medical product regulatory 
environment gets tougher; product 
registration costs rise, testing is more rigorous 
and more audits are needed. The growing 
complexity of medical device registration 
underlines the value of our investment in 
well-established medical sales channels 
and market access. 
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS
While the global medical device market 
growth should provide opportunity for 
sustained revenue growth, we anticipate 
geographic variation due to local economic 
conditions, government spending 
programmes and currency fluctuations. 
Medical device demand in North America, 
the largest global market for medical device 
technologies, is forecast to have a 3.7% 
CAGR until 2018, whereas Asia is expected 
to grow at a CAGR of 8.5%. In Europe 
medical device demand is forecast to grow  
at a CAGR of about 4% until 2018. 
US healthcare spending was again stronger 
than anticipated in the past year and is 
forecast to rise by about 6% per year until 
2024. This strong growth is due to many 
more Americans benefiting from health 
insurance through the Affordable Care Act, 
economic growth and the transition of an 
ageing population into the Medicare system. 
By 2024 the US government predicts that 
nearly US$1 in every US$5 spent will be on 
healthcare. We expect continued growth  
in the market for single-use surgical devices  
in the USA, but capital equipment sales  
may grow slowly.
Demand for ophthalmic products in China  
is growing fast at about 15% a year and the 
market is forecast to double in size by 2021. 
Our Chinese investment continues – more 
product registrations, more R&D engineers 
and development of localised products. 
Although 400,000 people become blind 
from cataracts every year in China, it has 
the lowest cataract surgery rate in Asia. 
Cataract surgery rates in China will increase 
as access is improved, particularly in rural 
areas. However, government pressure on 
top urban hospitals and preferences for local 
products is producing a more challenging 
environment in China in the short term. 
STRATEGY
The Medical sector is focused on enhancing 
the quality of life for patients and improving 
the quality of care delivered by providers. 
We serve niche applications in global 
markets. By investing in our current portfolio, 
and through acquiring additional companies, 
we aim to continue to deliver growth rates 
above Group targets.
Our businesses fall into two segments; 
Patient Care and Provider Solutions. The 
Patient Care segment involves businesses 
that develop and market devices to measure 
the health of patients. Areas of focus include 
ophthalmology and vital signs monitoring. 
In the Provider Solutions segment, we 
deliver products to diagnostic equipment 
manufacturers, laboratories and hospitals. 
Areas of focus here include critical fluidic 
components for instruments such as blood 
analysers, finished devices for laboratories, 
and sensor technologies that track assets 
and support patient and staff safety.
Key strategic initiatives to increase growth 
organically and via acquisition include:
• increasing collaboration to drive expansion 
and joint product development 
• increasing R&D investment to broaden 
product lines and commercialise innovative 
new products
• further geographic penetration and 
increased local manufacturing
• improving talent and increasing diversity
• adjacent market niche expansion
We measure active collaboration across the 
sector and have seen an increase of 83% in 
inter-company trading this year. Collaboration 
on R&D projects continues within and outside 
the sector. 
As indicated last year, R&D investment 
increased and reached 4.5% of revenue. This 
is an increase in spending of £2m and is now 
above Group target. Increased investment 
was mostly within the Patient Care segment. 
Medical sector R&D focuses on components 
and instrumentation that will be readily 
accepted by our existing conservative 
customer base. We have begun expanding 
local development and manufacturing efforts 
in emerging markets to better satisfy local 
customer needs. This year we launched a 
locally developed and manufactured blood 
pressure device in China and began 
registering more devices for local 
manufacture there.
A growing Medical sector sales team in China 
jointly markets many of our ophthalmologic 
products. Collaborative selling helps us 
recruit high calibre talent and share customer 
intelligence and distribution channels.  
We also plan to set up a medical product 
manufacturing hub in Shenzhen.
PERFORMANCE
The Medical sector grew revenue by 17% 
to £199m (2015: £169m) and profit by 14% 
to £52m (2015: £45m). Organic constant 
currency revenue growth and organic 
constant currency profit growth were  
10% and 9% respectively.
We delivered revenue growth in major 
geographies with the USA ahead 23%, 
Europe up 19% and Asia Pacific ahead  
20%. We also delivered 8% growth in the  
UK but were disappointed in Rest of World 
growth down 3%, largely due to a slowdown 
in Latin America. 
Return on Sales remained strong at 26% 
despite increased investment, particularly 
in R&D. 
Cash generation was above the Group 
target of 85% as we make investments  
to continue our strong revenue growth.  
We completed three acquisitions: 
VAS; Visiometrics; and CenTrak.
OUTLOOK
In the medium term we expect our Patient 
Care and Provider Solutions segments to 
outperform the market with sales driven by 
enhanced distribution in export markets, 
new products, increased penetration in 
existing markets and acquisitions. 
The Medical businesses acquired in 
2015/16 will have a significant positive 
impact on the sector’s results in 2016/17 
and beyond. We continue to build our 
pipeline of acquisition targets both 
within existing and adjacent niches. 40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sector Review
Environmental & Analysis
Chuck Dubois
Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis
The Environmental & Analysis sector achieved record revenue 
and profit. 
There was strong growth in emerging markets, in particular 
China and India. Our water network monitoring companies 
benefited from the new five-year investment cycle in the UK 
water industry. Renewed international emphasis on climate 
change is strengthening the position of our environmental 
applications.
The contribution to growth from new products continues to 
rise, specifically for our photonics businesses, and places 
us in a strong position for sustained growth in the future.
Performance
KPIs 2016
Group
target
Revenue growth
1
14.9% –
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 11.4% >5%
Profit growth
1
 26.0% –
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 21.5% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 18.3% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
6.6% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 189 164 167 152 154
Profit 34 27 32 30 32
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the  
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation  
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see note 1 to the Accounts).
Revenue % of Group
23%
Profit % of Group
19%
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS
Our products protect and analyse the air we breathe, the water we drink  
and the food we eat. They enable the development and manufacture of  
new products that improve our health and well-being. The Environmental  
& Analysis sector long-term growth is sustained by four key drivers:
• increasing demand for life-critical resources such as energy and water
• increasing environmental monitoring and regulations
• scientific advances transferring into new industries
• worldwide population ageing and increasing standards of living
According to the United Nations, by 2030 demand for water may be 40% 
higher than supply. By 2050 water shortages are expected to affect over 
50% of the global population due to increasing water usage by agriculture, 
manufacturing, domestic usage and energy production. Energy production  
is water-intensive and, with the world’s population expected to reach 8 billion 
by 2025, an ever stronger emphasis is placed on energy management and 
efficiency. Our diversification in energy monitoring and building management 
systems, and continued efforts in water conservation technologies capture 
growth from these trends.
Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental 
markets. Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning 
products. Products to monitor water networks, UV technology for disinfecting 
water and water quality testing products. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
Today 1.8 billion people drink faecally-
contaminated water and an even greater 
number drink water that is unsanitary. Our 
water testing kits help protect an increasing 
number of people in remote areas. 
The UN Climate Change Conference in Paris 
in 2015 reiterated the efforts to limit global 
warming, and reach carbon neutrality in the 
second part of the 21st century. The EU is 
targeting a 40% emission reduction by 2030 
compared to 1990 levels. This will multiply 
the opportunities for our environmental 
monitoring and analysis products.
Rapid urbanisation particularly affects air 
pollution. An estimated 80% of global 
greenhouse gas emissions are derived from 
cities, where 50% of the population being 
monitored is exposed to air pollution that 
is at least 2.5 times higher than the WHO 
recommended levels. Our mass flow 
meters are used to calibrate pollution 
monitoring equipment.
In China only 9% of the 190 largest cities 
meet the National Ambient Air Quality 
Standards. Our new gas conditioning 
equipment is suitable to measure the 
finest particles which are believed to 
be the greatest risk to health.
R&D investment continues to generate 
opportunities in adjacent and new markets.
Increasing demand for calibration and 
quality control sensors is a strong driver 
for our technologies in food processing, 
pharmaceuticals and agriculture. Increasing 
adoption of cloud computing and extension 
of digital communications into new areas 
boosts demand for our technologies that 
enhance data communication. 
Rising concerns about food safety are 
creating opportunities in both developed 
and developing economies. 
By 2030, 150 million more city dwellers will 
be 65 or older, increasing the share of the 
population at higher risk from contamination 
of food and water. 
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS
The Environmental & Analysis sector sells into 
diverse market niches. The modest growth 
rates of the developed economies are being 
exceeded by, and at a more accelerated 
pace in, emerging economies. 
Sales in emerging markets continue to grow 
strongly, reaching 30% of sector revenue. 
Developing world economic growth is 
driving profound transformations, raising 
expectations for cleaner air, purer water and 
safer food. China’s environmental concerns 
are driving strong sales in environmental 
monitoring water testing, building on 
expanded R&D and manufacturing. 
Food contamination scandals throughout 
the world are rising. Governments in 
emerging markets are tightening food 
quality regulations and the Food Safety 
Modernization Act is beginning to have  
an impact in the USA. Opportunities for  
our spectroscopy applications in the food 
safety market are appearing globally.
India is a key market for our light 
measurement equipment, where our 
technology is used to calibrate scientific 
instruments for remote sensing. We expect 
this to continue to grow in the coming year 
as governmental spending grows. 
Our water network monitoring companies 
are benefiting from the new five-year 
investment cycle in the UK water industry, 
while diversification into energy distribution 
monitoring is a growing niche for sales of  
their sensors and data loggers.
Demand for water quality testing by NGOs, 
particularly in Africa and South America, 
continues to grow. Implementation of water 
safety regulations in China is also fuelling 
growth for our water quality test kits.
STRATEGY
Environmental & Analysis growth strategy 
centres on market-led new product 
development, geographic expansion and 
collaboration to increase market reach.
R&D is focused on applications with 
long-term drivers and defensible positions. 
Our businesses have increased marketing 
spend to ensure that new products fulfil 
specific market needs.
We continue to invest in hiring high calibre 
people in developing regions. As the sector 
expands in emerging markets, products to 
meet regional customer need and local 
manufacture continues to increase. 
Our businesses share knowledge and have  
a strong pipeline of joint development projects. 
Several businesses re-sell other sector 
companies’ products, and there are many 
active joint sales and marketing projects.
Acquisitions are integral to our sector growth 
strategy and we expect this to be a key part 
of our growth story in the future. 
PERFORMANCE
The Environmental & Analysis sector grew 
revenue by 15% to £189m (2015: £164m)  
and profit by 26% to £34m (2015: £27m).  
At constant currency, organic revenue  
growth was 1 1% and organic profit growth 
was 21%. Return on Sales improved to 
18.3% (2015: 16.7%) and was back 
above Group target.
This was a strong year for our photonics 
businesses. R&D projects created 
opportunities in existing and new markets, 
geographies and applications. As increasing 
numbers of industrial processes need more 
sophisticated measurement devices, we  
have been able to capture substantial growth. 
China provided substantial growth for our 
water business, as we developed test kits 
specific to new environmental regulations. 
The return of business in the Middle East, 
along with the start of the new AMP five-year 
capital investment cycle in the UK, drove 
growth at our water monitoring businesses. 
Continuing emerging market growth created 
a favourable environment for rising sales 
at our gas conditioning businesses where 
new products penetrated growth markets 
in China and India and increased developed 
region revenue.
OUTLOOK
Externally, global population growth, 
population ageing and increasing standards 
of living are driving demand for basic energy 
resources, cleaner air, safer water and food 
and healthcare spending. Our products and 
companies are well positioned to continue 
to take advantage of these long-term 
growth drivers.
We are strengthening our acquisition pipeline, 
and we expect to add complementary 
businesses in the coming years.  42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Review
Through a combination of organic and acquisitive growth Halma  
aims to deliver sustained long-term shareholder value. We have  
a long track record of growing dividends and of investment in our 
business. This year’s record results build on that achievement.
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director
RECORD RESULTS
Halma achieved record revenue and  
profit for the thirteenth consecutive year. 
Revenue increased by 1 1.2% to £807 .8m 
(2015: £726. 1m) and adjusted
1
 profit was  
up by 8. 1% to £166.0m (2015: £153.6m).  
Our balance sheet remains strong following 
our highest ever spend on acquisitions.  
The Board is proposing a dividend increase  
of 7%, the 37th consecutive year of 5% 
or more dividend growth.
The 1 1.2% (£81.7m) increase in revenue 
included 5.7% organic constant currency 
revenue growth. Acquisitions, net of a small 
disposal in the prior year, contributed 3.5%  
to growth and there was a 2.0% positive 
currency translation impact.
The adjusted
1
 profit increase of 8. 1% (£12.4m) 
included 3.4% organic constant currency profit 
growth. Acquisitions contributed 2.9% to 
growth and there was a 1 .8% positive currency 
translation impact. 
Statutory profit before taxation increased 
by 2.0% to £136.3m (2015: £133.6m). 
Statutory profit is calculated after charging 
the amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets of £23. 1m (2015: £19.9m) and after 
charging acquisition related items, including 
revisions to provisions for acquisition 
contingent consideration and related foreign 
exchange movements, of £7 .2m (2015: 
£1.5m) arising from current and prior year 
acquisitions. There was also a gain on 
disposal of £0.6m (2015: £1.4m) relating to 
the part disposal of shares in our Associated 
operation, Optomed Oy. 
In both the first and second half years 
revenue grew by 1 1%. There was a positive 
contribution from currency translation in both 
halves. Organic revenue growth at constant 
currency was 7% in the first half, and principally 
due to the performance of the Process Safety 
sector, was 4% in the second half. 
Adjusted
1
 profit grew by 8% in both the first 
and second half. The first half/second half 
profit split was 45%/55% as in the prior year. 
Organic constant currency profit growth was 
4% in the first half and 3% in the second half. 
Three of the four sectors delivered strong 
revenue and profit growth. Environmental  
& Analysis recovered strongly this year as 
expected to deliver a record result and 
delivered profit growth well ahead of significant 
revenue growth. Process Safety revenue and 
profit was lower than the prior year due to the 
impact of tougher conditions in oil and gas 
related markets, which make up around 40% 
of sector revenue, and the non-repeat in the 
second half of a contract in South America. 
Organic constant currency profit decline  
for Process Safety in the second half was 
broadly in line with the first half. Medical and 
Infrastructure Safety sectors achieved double 
digit rates of revenue and profit growth 
boosted by a contribution from acquisitions 
and good underlying organic growth.
This year we have simplified the calculation 
of our organic growth KPI to now exclude the 
first 12 months’ performance (for profit, net of 
financing cost) of any acquisitions to calculate 
the organic growth rate. Previously we used 
the run rate at the time of acquisition to make 
the calculation. There was little impact this 
year on the organic growth rates arising from 
this change and we have revised the KPI 
comparatives for prior years accordingly.
Building on long-term 
achievement
REVENUE AND PROFIT GROWTH Percentage growth
2016
£m
2015
£m
Increase
£m Total
Organic 
growth
2
Organic growth
2
at constant 
currency
Revenue 807.8 726.1 81.7 11.2% 7.7% 5.7%
Adjusted
1
 profit 166.0 153.6 12.4 8.1% 5.2% 3.4%
1
  In addition to those figures reported under IFRS Halma uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators. The Directors believe the adjusted figures give a more representative view of underlying 
performance. Adjusted profit excludes the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items and profit or loss on disposal of operations. All of these are included in the statutory figures. 
More details are given in note 3.
2
 See Highlights. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
In the year, we have 
continued to develop 
risk and control 
capability within 
each sector to 
support the growth 
of our businesses. 
Central administration costs of £8.9m 
(2015: £9.0m) were in line with last year. As 
expected there was an increase in investment 
in talent development, international expansion 
and the cost of our biennial HITE conference. 
This increase was offset by the profit on sale 
of a Group freehold property. We expect a 
further increase in the underlying costs in 
2016/17 as we continue to support the 
growth of the Group.
WIDESPREAD GROWTH 
Revenue grew in all major regions. The 
USA continues to be our largest revenue 
destination increasing by 22% to now 
contribute 34% (2015: 31%) of Group 
revenue, with strong growth in both the  
first and second half of the year. The high 
rates of organic growth in the Infrastructure 
Safety and Medical sectors were boosted  
by acquisitions, with the strong growth in  
the Environmental & Analysis sector being  
all organic. Currency translation benefited  
USA revenue and organic constant  
currency growth in the USA was 9%.
Mainland Europe revenue grew by 7% 
with growth in all sectors and a particularly 
strong increase in the Medical sector, which 
was largely organic. UK revenue increased  
by 5% with steady growth across all four 
sectors. 10% of Group revenue with its 
destination in Mainland Europe originates  
in the UK. Changes in short/medium term 
trading or regulatory arrangements between 
the UK and the EU would have an impact  
on the Group but are unlikely to be material.
Adjusted profit bridge £m
2015 Acquisition Disposals Currency Organic 
constant
currency
2016
153.6 4.4 0.1 2.7 5.2 166.0
2.9% –%
1.8%
3.4% 8.1%
160
155
150
145
140
Revenue bridge £m
2015 Acquisition Disposals Currency Organic 
constant
currency
2016
726.1 27.1 (1.2) 14.5 41.3 807.8
3.7% (0.2%)
2.0%
5.7% 11.2%
800
750
700
650
600
Geographic revenue bridge £m
2015 USA Mainland
Europe
UK Asia
Paciﬁc
Other* 2016
726.1 49.5 11.9 6.5 5.6 8.2 807.8
22%
7%
5%
7%
7%
11%
800
750
700
650
600
* Comprises Africa, Near and Middle East & Other Countries.
GEOGRAPHIC REVENUE GROWTH
2016 2015
Change
 £m
%
growth
% 
organic 
growth at 
constant 
currency £m
% of
total £m
% of
total
United States of America 272.9 34% 223.4 31% 49.5 22% 9%
Mainland Europe 179.3 22% 167.4 23% 11.9 7% 7%
United Kingdom 144.8 18% 138.3 19% 6.5 5% 4%
Asia Pacific 125.0 15% 116.8 16% 8.2 7% 3%
Africa, Near and Middle East 55.7 7% 44.0 6% 11.7 27% 16%
Other countries 30.1 4% 36.2 5% (6.1) (17)% (22)%
807.8 100% 726.1 100% 81.7 11% 6% 44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Asia Pacific revenue grew by 7%. Medical 
and Environmental & Analysis delivered 
very good growth in Asia Pacific, leading 
to 10% growth in China, and together with 
Infrastructure Safety showed strong growth 
in India. Process Safety was affected by a 
slowdown in Australia. Africa, Near and 
Middle East grew by 27% with all sectors 
delivering growth and a very strong increase 
in the Middle East for Infrastructure Safety. 
There was revenue decline of 17% in Other 
countries with weak trading across South 
America, following last year’s major oil and  
gas related contract for Process Safety.
In total, revenue grew from territories  
outside UK/Mainland Europe/USA  
by 7% although slightly behind our 10% 
growth target for such revenue. This 
compares with 13% growth in revenue  
in UK/Mainland Europe/USA.
CONTINUED HIGH RETURNS
Halma’s Return on Sales
2
 has exceeded  
16% for over 30 consecutive years. We  
aim to deliver Return on Sales in the range  
of 18-22%. This year Return on Sales was 
20.6% (2015: 21.2%). Return on Sales for 
Process Safety reduced this year due 
to tough trading conditions but remains 
at the high rate of 25% with an improved 
performance in the second half. Medical 
and Infrastructure Safety sectors remained 
broadly in line with last year. Environmental 
& Analysis improved profitability as expected 
and exceeded 18% Return on Sales. Higher 
financing costs also reduced Return on Sales.
Adjusted
1
 gross margin (revenue less direct 
material and direct labour costs) remained 
steady at 64.2% (2015: 64.6%) continuing a 
long trend of stability and reflecting strong 
management of pricing and input costs.
Return on Total Invested Capital
2 
(ROTIC), 
the post-tax return on the Group’s total 
assets including all historic goodwill, was 
15.6% (2015: 16.3%). ROTIC remains well in 
excess of Group Weighted Average Cost of 
Capital (WACC) of 8. 1% (2015: 7 .6%).
VOLATILITY IN CURRENCY  
MANAGED EFFECTIVELY
Halma reports its results in Sterling. Our other 
key trading currencies are the US Dollar, Euro 
and to a lesser extent the Swiss Franc. Over 
40% of Group revenue is denominated in 
US Dollars and approximately 10% in Euros.
The Group has both translational  
and transactional currency exposure. 
Translational exposures arise on the 
consolidation of overseas company results 
into Sterling. Transactional exposures arise 
where the currency of sale or purchase 
transactions differs from the functional 
currency in which each company prepares  
its local accounts.
We take a neutral view of the future 
movements of currencies. After matching 
currency of revenue with currency costs 
wherever practical, forward exchange 
contracts are used to hedge a proportion 
(up to 75%) of the remaining forecast 
net transaction flows where there is a 
reasonable certainty of an exposure.  
We hedge up to 12 months and, in certain 
specific circumstances, up to 24 months 
forward. At 2 April 2016 over 50% of our next 
12 months’ currency trading transactions 
were hedged. There is a good degree of 
natural hedging within the Group in US 
Dollars but we typically spend less in Euros 
than we sell and so have a net exposure of 
approximately €35m at any time.
We saw continued volatility in currencies 
throughout the year. In the first half year 
Sterling weakened on average by 8%  
relative to the US Dollar and strengthened 
12% against the Euro resulting in a 3% 
positive currency translation impact on 
revenue and 2% positive impact on profit.  
At that time we expected a broadly neutral 
currency translation impact for the year as  
a whole. However for the full year Sterling  
was 6% weaker relative to the US Dollar and 
8% stronger relative to the Euro. Currency 
translation therefore had a positive impact  
of 2% on both revenue and profit in the full 
year. The sectors benefiting most from 
positive currency translation in the full year 
were Medical and Environmental & Analysis.
Based on the current mix of currency 
denominated revenue and profit, a 1% 
movement in the US Dollar relative to  
Sterling changes revenue by £3.4m and  
profit by £0.7m. Similarly, a 1% movement  
in the Euro changes revenue by £0.9m  
and profit by £0.2m.
Since the start of 2016, we have seen Sterling 
weaken and then strengthen against both 
the US Dollar and the Euro. We expect 
currency rates to continue to be volatile.  
If currencies were to continue at approximately 
US Dollar 1.45/Euro 1.30 relative to Sterling 
and assuming a constant mix of currency 
results, we would expect approximately 2% 
favourable currency translation impact on 
revenue and profit due to currency translation 
in 2016/17 compared with 2015/16. The 
positive impact would be greater in the first 
half of 2016/17 than the second half.
INCREASED FINANCING COST
The net financing cost in the Income 
Statement of £7 . 1m was higher than the 
prior year (2015: £4.9m). The average cost 
of financing was higher than 2015 due to 
the increased interest rate on long-term 
borrowing and the higher levels of average 
debt for the year, following acquisitions 
made in the second half of the year (see 
the ‘Average debt and interest rates’ 
table on page 45 for more information). 
Interest cover (EBITDA as a multiple of net 
interest expense as defined by our revolving 
credit facility) was 46 times (2015: 51 times) 
which was well in excess of the four times 
minimum required in our banking covenants. 
The net pension financing charge is included 
within the net financing cost. This year it 
increased to £2.0m (2015: £1.4m) because 
the net pension deficit at the start of the  
year, on which the interest cost is based,  
was above the deficit at the corresponding 
date in the prior year.
LOWER GROUP TAX RATE
The Group’s approach to tax is to ensure 
compliance with the tax regulations in all of 
the countries in which it operates. The key 
features of this are: (1) Tax compliance – 
Halma is committed to maintaining good 
relationships with tax authorities based on 
cooperation, transparency and paying in  
full the tax due in each jurisdiction; (2) Tax 
strategy – our tax arrangements have an 
underlying business purpose and, where 
possible, we consider mitigating tax in 
compliance with local legislation; and (3) Tax 
policy – the Board of Directors is regularly 
updated, either directly or through the Audit 
Committee, on the Group’s Tax policy and 
management of tax risks.
The Group has major operating subsidiaries 
in 10 countries so the Group’s effective  
tax rate is a blend of these national tax  
rates applied to locally generated profits.  
A significant proportion (approximately one 
quarter) of Group profit is generated and 
taxed in the UK. The Groups’ effective tax 
rate on adjusted profit reduced to 21.9% 
(2015: 23.2%). The UK corporation tax rate  
Financial Review continued
Weighted average rates used in 
the Income Statement
Exchange rates
used to translate
the Balance Sheet
2016 2015 2016 2015
First half Full year Full year Year end Year end 
US$ 1.54 1.51 1.61 1.42 1.48
Euro 1.39 1.37 1.27 1.25 1.37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
fell from 21% to 20% this year, and we 
benefited from an increase in widely claimed 
R&D related tax incentives, exemptions  
and reliefs (for example under the UK 
‘Patent Box’ rules).
STRONG CASH GENERATION
Cash generation is an important component 
of the Halma model underpinning further 
investment in our businesses, supporting 
value enhancing acquisitions and funding an 
increasing dividend. Our cash performance  
in 2015/16 was strong. Adjusted operating 
cash flow was £148.3m (2015: £138.7m) 
and represented 86% (2015: 87%) of 
adjusted operating profit, ahead of our 
cash conversion KPI target of 85%.
A summary of the year’s cash flow is shown 
in the table on page 46. The largest outflows 
in the year were in relation to our record 
spend on acquisitions, dividends and taxation 
paid. Working capital outflow, comprising 
changes in inventory, receivables and 
creditors, totalled £5.8m (2015: £6.0m) and 
reflected strong control of operations at local 
company level.
Dividends totalling £46.5m (2015: £43.4m) 
were paid to shareholders in the year. 
Taxation paid was £27 .2m (2015: £30.8m).
CAPITAL ALLOCATION AND FUNDING
Halma aims to deliver high returns, measured 
by Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), 
well in excess of our cost of capital. Future 
earnings growth and strong cash returns 
underpin ROTIC and our capital allocation  
as follows:
• Investment for organic growth
Organic growth is our priority and is driven 
by investment in our businesses, in particular 
through capital expenditure, innovation of 
new products, international expansion and 
the development of our people.
• Regular and increasing returns 
to shareholders
We have maintained a long-term progressive 
dividend policy as our preferred route for 
delivering cash returns to shareholders.
• Value enhancing acquisitions
We supplement organic growth with 
acquisitions in related markets at sensible 
prices. This brings new technology and 
Intellectual Property into the Group and  
can expand our market reach.
The above investment and shareholder 
returns are funded by strong cash flow and 
moderate levels of debt appropriate to our 
needs. Ensuring we have sufficient financial 
capacity is important to our model. 
INVESTMENT FOR ORGANIC GROWTH
All sectors continue to innovate and invest  
in new products with R&D spend controlled 
by each individual Halma company. This  
year R&D expenditure grew by 19% with 
increased investment through the year,  
in particular in the Medical sector. R&D 
expenditure as a percentage of revenue 
increased to 5. 1% (2015: 4.8%). There is  
a good pipeline of new products and the 
increased investment by our businesses 
reflects their strategy to expand their range  
of products to drive growth. In the medium 
term we expect R&D expenditure to increase 
broadly in line with revenue.
Under IFRS accounting rules we are required 
to capitalise certain development projects 
and amortise the cost over an appropriate 
period, which we determine as three years. 
In 2015/16 we capitalised/reclassified 
£8.6m (2015: £7 .4m), acquired £3.6m, and 
amortised/disposed of £5.3m (2015: £5.6m). 
This results in an asset carried on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, after 
£0.7m of foreign exchange movements, 
of £23.5m (2015: £15.9m). All R&D 
projects and particularly those requiring 
capitalisation, are subject to rigorous 
review and approval processes.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and 
computer software this year was £24. 1m 
(2015: £23.2m). This maintains investment 
in our operating capability and includes 
investment of £4m in a property in our 
Medical sector (2015: £5m).
REGULAR AND INCREASING 
RETURNS FOR SHAREHOLDERS
Adjusted
1 
earnings per share increased by 
10% to 34.26p (2015: 31. 17p) ahead of the 
increase in adjusted
1
 profit, primarily due to 
the lower tax rate. Statutory earnings per 
share increased by 5% to 28.76p (2015: 
27 .49p) due to the lower tax rate and the 
factors noted previously affecting the 
calculation of statutory profit. We deliver 
shareholder value via consistent growth in 
earnings per share and this is reflected in our 
senior management share based incentives.
The Board is recommending a 7 . 1% increase 
in the final dividend to 7 .83p per share (2015: 
7 .31p per share), which together with the 
4.98p per share interim dividend, gives a total 
dividend of 12.81p (2015: 1 1.96p), up 7 . 1%. 
The final dividend for 2015/16 is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the AGM on 
21 July 2016 and will be paid on 17 August 
2016 to shareholders on the register at 
15 July 2016. With this latest rise, Halma 
will have increased its dividend by 5% 
or more for 37 consecutive years.
Our long-term progressive dividend policy 
balances dividend increases with the 
medium-term rates of organic profit growth 
achieved, taking into account potential 
acquisition spend and maintaining moderate 
debt levels. Our policy is to maintain dividend 
cover (the ratio of adjusted profit after tax to 
dividends paid and proposed) above two 
times and this year dividend cover is 2.67 
times (2015: 2.61 times). We continue to 
determine the dividend payout each year 
based on all of the factors noted above.
VALUE ENHANCING ACQUISITIONS
Acquisitions and disposals are an important 
part of our growth strategy. We buy 
businesses already successful in, or adjacent 
to, the niches in which we operate. Sector 
acquisition resources to support this strategy 
continue to be increased. 
In the year we spent £193m on four 
acquisitions (net of cash/(debt) acquired 
of £2m). In addition we paid £10m in 
contingent consideration and settlement 
of loan notes for acquisitions made in 
prior years, giving a total spend of £203m.
The acquisitions made in 2015/16 were 
as follows:
Value Added Solutions, LLC (VAS) was 
acquired in May 2015. VAS has been 
integrated with one of our Medical sector 
companies, Diba Industries, which is also 
based in Connecticut, USA. The initial cash 
consideration was US$5m (£3m). 
Firetrace USA, LLC was acquired in October 
2015 and is based near Phoenix, Arizona. 
The initial consideration was US$1 10m (£73m).
Visiometrics, S.L., located outside 
Barcelona, Spain and Visual Performance 
Diagnostics, Inc., located in Aliso Viejo, 
California, USA (together referred to as 
Visiometrics) were acquired in December 
2015, joining our Medical sector. The cash 
consideration comprises three elements: 
€18m (£13m) paid at closing; deferred 
contingent consideration up to €69m (£50m) 
paid based on the profit performance of 
Visiometrics over the next three years;  
and deferred contingent consideration up to 
€40m (£29m) paid in royalties over the next 
five years with a maximum total consideration 
of €125m (£91m). Our current estimate is  
that €30m (£22m) will be paid in deferred 
contingent consideration and this has been 
accrued in these accounts.
CenTrak, Inc., based in Newtown, 
Pennsylvania, USA was acquired in February 
2016 and also joins the Medical sector. The 
cash consideration was US$140m (£97m).
AVERAGE DEBT AND INTEREST RATES
2016 2015
Average gross debt (£m) 208.1 164.8
Weighted average interest rate on gross debt 1.54% 1.38%
Average cash balances (£m) 57.7 45.6
Weighted average interest rate on cash 0.38% 0.29%
Average net debt (£m) 150.4 119.2
Weighted average interest rate on net debt 1.99% 1.80% 46 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Review continued
Taking the four acquisitions together,  
£100m of the consideration was attributed  
to intangible assets which will be amortised, 
and £1 15m is goodwill which will be subject 
to an annual impairment review. 
Based on their run rate at the time of 
acquisition, the businesses acquired in 
2015/16 would add £41m to revenue and 
£8m (after financing costs) to profit in 2016/17 . 
FUNDING CAPACITY INCREASED 
VIA US PRIVATE PLACEMENT
Halma operations are inherently cash 
generative and the Group has access to 
competitively priced debt finance providing 
good liquidity for the Group. Group treasury 
policy is conservative and no speculative 
transactions are undertaken. 
We continue to fund the combination of 
organic and acquisition growth through our 
strong cash flow and use of debt facilities.  
We hold a syndicated revolving credit facility 
of £360m which runs to November 2018. 
In November 2015 a US Private Placement 
was agreed for US$250m, in a mix of Sterling, 
US Dollars, and Euros, at a weighted average 
interest rate of 2.5% over the outstanding 
borrowing period of five, seven and ten years. 
Funds were drawn down in January 2016 
providing diversification of Group funding.
At the year end net debt was £246.7m (2015: 
£100.9m), a combination of £300.6m of debt 
and £53.9m of cash held around the world to 
finance local operations. The gearing ratio at 
year end (net debt to EBITDA) increased to 
1.27 times (2015: 0.56 times) following strong 
acquisition expenditure this year. We are 
comfortable operating at this level of gearing 
and would increase to 2 times gearing if the 
timing of acquisitions required it. Net debt 
represents 7% (2015: 4%) of the Group’s 
year end market capitalisation. The Group 
continues to operate well within its banking 
covenants with significant headroom under 
each financial ratio.
These sources of funding provide Halma with 
the financial resources to operate within its 
existing business model for the medium term, 
continuing investment in our business and 
with capacity for further acquisitions.
PENSIONS UPDATE
We closed the two UK defined benefit (DB) 
plans to new members in 2002. In December 
2014 we ceased future accrual within these 
plans with future pension benefits earned 
within the Group’s Defined Contribution (DC) 
pension arrangements. These changes 
reduce Group risk for the future.
OPERATING CASH FLOW SUMMARY
2016
£m
2015
£m
Operating profit 142.9 137.1
Net acquisition costs and contingent consideration fair value 
adjustments 7.2 1.5
Amortisation of acquisition-related acquired intangible assets 23.1 19.9
Adjusted operating profit 173.2 158.5
Depreciation and other amortisation 21.8 21.0
Working capital movements (5.8) (6.0)
Capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds (22.1) (22.2)
Additional payments to pension plans (7.7) (6.6)
Other adjustments (11.1) (6.0)
Adjusted operating cash flow 148.3 138.7
Cash conversion % 86% 87%
NON-OPERATING CASH FLOW AND RECONCILIATION TO NET DEBT
2016
£m
2015
£m
Adjusted operating cash flow 148.3 138.7
Tax paid (27.2) (30.8)
Acquisition of businesses including cash/debt acquired (202.6) (88.2)
Net movement in loan notes 0.1 2.1
Net finance costs and arrangement fees (4.7) (3.0)
Dividends paid (46.5) (43.4)
Own shares purchased/issue of shares (3.0) (6.0)
Adjustment for cash outflow on share awards not settled by own shares (2.5) –
Disposal of operations 0.9 4.2
Effects of foreign exchange (8.6) –
Movement in net debt (145.8) (26.4)
 
Opening net debt (100.9) (74.5)
 
Closing net debt (246.7) (100.9)
NET DEBT TO EBITDA
2016
£m
2015
£m
Adjusted operating profit 173.2 158.5
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding acquired intangible assets) 21.8 21.0
EBITDA 195.0 179.5
Net debt to EBITDA 1.27 0.56 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47
The Group accounts for post-retirement 
benefits in accordance with IAS19 Employee 
Benefits. The Consolidated Balance Sheet 
reflects the net deficit on our pension plans  
at 2 April 2016 based on the market value  
of assets at that date and the valuation  
of liabilities using year end AA corporate  
bond yields.
On an IAS19 basis the deficit on the Group’s 
DB plans at March 2016 has reduced to 
£52.3m (2015: £66.8m) before the related 
deferred tax asset. The value of plan assets 
reduced slightly to £221.9m (2015: £224.8m). 
In total, about 50% of plan assets are 
invested in return seeking assets providing a 
higher expected level of return over the longer 
term. Plan liabilities reduced to £27 4.2m 
(2015: £291.6m) primarily due to the increase 
in the discount rate.
The plan’s actuarial valuation reviews, rather 
than the accounting basis, determine any 
cash deficit payments by Halma. Following 
the most recent triennial actuarial valuation of 
the two UK pension plans in 2014 and 2015, 
future cash contributions to eliminate the 
deficit have been agreed with the trustees.  
In 2015/16 these contributions amounted  
to £7 .7m and it is planned that the annual 
amount will increase to £10.7m in 2016/17 
with modest increases in subsequent years.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Halma has a well-established business  
and financial model which has delivered 
success consistently over the long term.  
The model is based on considerable 
autonomy and accountability at operating 
company and sector level, within a robust 
strategic framework supported by strong 
policies and clear procedures. In the year  
we have continued to develop risk and 
control capability within each sector to 
support the growth of our businesses. 
Risk is managed closely and is spread  
across well-resourced companies, each  
of which manages risk to its individual level  
of materiality. There are extensive review 
processes in place including peer financial 
review and Internal Audit. The key Group risks 
have been referenced in this Annual Report 
primarily on pages 30 to 33 and in the Chief 
Executive’s Strategic Review and Sector 
Reviews. In addition key risks are highlighted 
in the Audit Committee Report on page 69 
and Auditor’s Report on page 96.
The Strategic Report was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 14 June 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director
Cautionary note: this Strategic Report has 
been prepared solely to assist shareholders 
to assess the Board’s strategies and their 
potential to succeed. It should not be relied 
on by any other party, for other purposes. 
Forward‑looking statements have been 
made by the Directors in good faith using 
information available up until the date that 
they approved the Report. Forward‑ looking 
statements should be regarded with caution 
because of the inherent uncertainties in 
economic trends and business risks.
The UK Corporate Governance Code  
issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) requires regular monitoring of risk by 
the Board. As noted above, for many years 
we have had comprehensive and regular 
review of risk taking place at many levels 
throughout the organisation and this is 
discussed more fully in the Strategic  
Report and Corporate Governance Report. 
We are conscious of the increased risks 
arising in the area of cyber security and 
have continued to be very active this year 
in monitoring such threats and improving 
our defences. Awareness of these potential 
threats has been increased with our 
employees across the Group and good 
progress continues to be made.
The Board considers all of the above  
factors in its review of ‘Going Concern’ as 
described on page 68. In addition a new 
Viability Statement is presented on page 68, 
extending the Board’s review over a three 
year period. Both reviews have been 
concluded satisfactorily. 
This Annual Report and Accounts is  
prepared in line with the latest requirements 
for integrated reporting and the Board has 
taken care to ensure that it is ‘fair, balanced 
and understandable’. The Audit Committee 
took a key role in assessing compliance  
with reporting requirements supported by 
robust management processes.
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director 48 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sustainability
Our commitment
Halma companies are involved in the 
manufacture of a wide range of products 
that protect and improve the quality of life for 
people worldwide. This report focuses on 
areas of progress and our performance for all 
areas of sustainability which are considered 
to be material by our stakeholders and are 
also important to the success of our business. 
Halma has developed meaningful key 
performance indicators (KPIs) that reflect the 
importance the Group places on sustainability 
and enables the Board to monitor the 
Group’s progress in meeting its objectives 
and responsibilities in these areas. Further 
details are given on pages 27 and 49.
These areas of emphasis include health 
and safety, employee engagement and 
development, human rights, ethics and 
sustainability. Safety is critical to the Group 
and is a major priority. We recognise the 
necessity of safeguarding the health and 
safety of our own employees while at work 
and operate so as to provide a safe and 
comfortable working environment for 
employees, visitors and the public. Our policy 
is to manage our activities to avoid causing 
any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to 
health and safety and the environment. 
Halma has an excellent health and safety 
record and a culture of safety is deeply 
embedded within the Group. 
Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, 
Empowerment and Customer satisfaction. 
These core values have been selected 
following extensive surveying of employees 
across the Group. Our culture is one of 
openness, integrity and accountability. 
We encourage our employees to act fairly 
in their dealings with fellow employees, 
customers, suppliers and business partners. 
We recognise that our employees determine 
our success and we continue to invest in, 
and encourage further development of, our 
employees each year, not only utilising the 
suite of Halma development programmes, 
but also by providing clear leadership and 
Health and safety  
Our commitment to safeguarding the 
health and safety of our employees while 
at work is demonstrated by our culture 
of safety and our excellent health and 
safety record.
Employee engagement 
and development 
Our commitment to investing in our 
people and developing talent is visible 
through our tailored global development 
programmes. 
Corporate responsibility 
and sustainability 
Our commitment to managing our 
business activities in a sustainable way 
and minimising the environmental impact 
is evidenced by the reduction of CO2e  
in our business and the Group’s carbon 
reduction target. 
Human rights and ethics 
Our commitment to respecting human 
rights and operating in an ethical way is 
embedded throughout our Group and 
underpins the way that we work.
decisive action. Jennifer Ward, our Group 
Talent Director, champions our talent 
leadership and works with our teams to 
ensure that we have the right capabilities and 
best talent required to develop and grow our 
people to match Halma’s growth ambition. 
We support the concept of sustainability 
and recognise that, in common with all 
businesses, our activities have an 
environmental impact. Our strategy is not 
to have capital-intensive manufacturing 
processes and to operate close to our 
end markets in terms of geography, so the 
environmental impact of our operations is 
relatively low compared to manufacturers in 
other sectors. We also recognise that we can 
improve our own environmental performance 
and so resources are deployed to actively 
reduce our own carbon footprint. Halma  
has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK 
index since its establishment in July 2001.
THE ENVIRONMENT
We have an excellent long-term record and 
a clear strategy for addressing environmental 
issues that affect our businesses and 
for developing products that protect the 
environment and improve safety at work 
and in public places.
OUR PRODUCTS
Many of our innovative products play a very 
positive role in monitoring and improving  
the environment. Halma brands lead the 
world in a number of technologies which  
help to minimise environmental damage.  
Our principal environmental technologies  
are water leakage detection and wireless 
monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water 
and effluent analysis, UV water treatment  
and optical sensing. We promote the use  
of UV water sterilisation which eliminates  
the need to use dangerous chemicals,  
as well as making products that minimise  
the waste of clean water.
Our commitment to the development of 
equipment for measuring and monitoring 
environmental changes and controlling the 
damaging impact of industrial activities is 
long term. We are the major world supplier 
in several of these areas.
OUR IMPACT
The environmental effect of our operations 
is relatively low compared to manufacturers 
in other sectors. Our manufacturing model 
is decentralised, permitting our operations 
to be located close to their customers. 
Manufacturing operations are established 
across the world for this very reason rather 
than to save labour costs. The ethos of 
being close to our customers reflects the 
importance we place on the quality of our 
products and the service levels we provide to 
our customers. It also makes our operations 
more flexible and responsive to their markets 
and customers. With operations spread 
around the globe, our supplier base is 
understandably fragmented. Therefore, 
responsibility for vetting and managing 
suppliers is devolved to local management 
while meeting the Group’s ethical standards.  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM (EMS)
We are committed to developing and 
implementing an EMS throughout the 
Group to measure, control and reduce our 
environmental impacts. We have developed 
performance indicators that assist local 
management in implementing the policy 
and ultimately developing an EMS. All Group 
companies are encouraged to undertake  
ISO 14001 accreditation, where warranted. 
The requirement to implement an EMS will  
be extended to the rest of the Group in the 
medium term. 
Group companies are also encouraged to 
improve energy efficiency, to reduce waste 
and emissions and reduce the use of 
materials in order to minimise their 
environmental impact. 
The Group has identified its key 
environmental impacts as emissions to air 
and water, water and energy consumption, 
and waste production. We established 
baseline data for these impacts in 2004/05 
and set targets for reductions against  
the baseline on a rolling three year cycle.  
We support innovation and investment  
that drives environmental performance.  
For example, Fortress Interlocks have 
implemented an initiative to shred its 
cardboard waste packaging and use it  
as a bulk fill for shipments to customers  
in place of purchased expanding foam. Not 
only has this had a significant environmental 
impact, it has also delivered a commercial 
benefit. Similarly, sites such as Fortress 
Interlocks and our Group head office, have 
replaced halogen lighting with more efficient 
LED lighting.
CARBON FOOTPRINT
The Group’s policy on carbon is published 
on our website and has been distributed 
and explained to all Halma business units. 
A senior executive in each of our higher 
impact business units is responsible 
for implementing the carbon policy at 
local level. Our Finance Director, Kevin 
Thompson, has principal responsibility 
for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
We are committed to reducing our carbon 
footprint. The Group set a target of reducing 
its total carbon emissions relative to revenues 
by 10% over the three years from March 
2010,  which was met in March 2013. The 
same target was set for the three year period 
to March 2016 and has been significantly 
exceeded. The Board are pleased with the 
carbon emissions reduction across all three 
categories of emissions and on a tonne per 
£m of revenue basis. For the three year period 
to March 2019, the Board has agreed a 
targeted reduction of total carbon emissions 
relative to revenues by a further 10%, further 
demonstrating our commitment in this area.
From April 2010, we have worked with 
providers of energy efficiency and carbon 
reduction solutions to ensure compliance 
with the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC) which is 
the UK’s mandatory energy saving scheme 
administered by the Environment Agency. 
We are in full compliance with the CRC 
requirements. All major UK sites have 
received an energy survey and set an 
action plan for improved energy usage. 
Halma has complied with the Energy Savings 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Reporting
We continue to work with our consultants to better monitor our environmental performance and future external reporting requirements. 
GHG Emissions data for the period 29 March 2015 to 2 April 2016
2015/16  
CO2e emissions
global tonnes 
2014/15
CO2e emissions
global tonnes
Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 3,955 4,348
Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 15,083 16,247
Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT (Well to Tank) 13,883 14,022 
Total gross emissions 32,921 34,617 
Intensity measure of tonnes of CO
2
e gross emissions per £m revenue 40.8 47.7 
CO2e emissions reduction
Performance 
26%
reduction over  
3 years to 2016
Target
10%
reduction over 
3 years to 2016
CO2e emissions 
(tonnes/£m of revenue)
12 13 14 15 16
43
42
39**
36**
51*
48*
41*
31**
* Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013/14 
figures onward have been calculated to include Well to  
Tank (WTT) emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel.  
It is not required to restate years prior to 2013/14 due to  
the methodological changes.
** The figures for 2013/14 onwards have also been calculated 
on the same basis as prior years (excluding Well to Tank 
(WTT) emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel) to allow 
for a direct comparison over the longer time scale. 50 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sustainability continued
Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) regulations 
and submitted its compliance report to the 
Environment Agency in November 2015, 
ahead of the 5 December 2015 deadline. 
The observations made following site energy 
surveys were shared with local management 
and reviewed centrally at Group level.
The Group does not operate a fleet of 
distribution vehicles although we do own a 
number of company cars. To support the 
Group’s commitment to sustainability, we 
operate a cap on permissible CO 2 emissions 
for all company vehicles, which is subject to 
regular review. 
We comply with the mandatory carbon 
reporting requirements which UK 
listed companies are subject to and have 
reported on all of the emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. 
We have employed the Operation Control 
definition to outline our carbon footprint 
boundary; included within that boundary are 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing 
sites and offices which we own and operate. 
Excluded from our footprint boundary are 
emissions from manufacturing sites and 
offices which we do not own and control, 
and emissions considered non-material by 
the business. We have reported on emissions 
from Scope 1 and 2 emissions sources with 
some Scope 3 emissions sources included 
(business air travel for all years, and Well 
to Tank emissions for 2013/14, 2014/15 
and 2015/16).
We have also used the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition) and guidance 
provided by UK’s Department for 
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 
(Defra) on voluntary and mandatory carbon 
reporting. Emission factors were used from 
UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting 2014 and 2015. 
The Group’s environmental performance will 
continue to be reported both in our Annual 
Report and Accounts and on our website. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Halma companies are involved in the 
manufacture of a wide range of products 
that protect and improve the quality of life 
for people worldwide. Therefore, safety is 
critical to the Group and is a major priority 
for management and to demonstrate the 
Group’s added emphasis on health and 
safety. The Board has endorsed the inclusion 
of the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate 
(AFR) as one of our non-financial KPIs on 
page 27 . 
The Group manages its activities to avoid 
causing any unnecessary or unacceptable 
risks to the health and safety of our 
employees in the workplace or to the public 
as a result of our activities. Health and safety 
performance is closely monitored to ensure 
that adequate processes, procedures and 
reporting are in place, and operating, to 
ensure a safe working environment for  
our employees and visitors to our sites. 
Halma has an excellent health and safety 
record and a culture of safety is deeply 
embedded within the Group. Health and 
safety performance is regularly reviewed  
at multiple levels within the Group – at 
subsidiary board level, at sector level and  
by the Halma Board. Each Group company  
is required to have an independent health  
and safety review carried out every three 
years, with a view to ensuring a consistent 
approach in the quality of reporting, 
adherence to internal processes and 
procedures, adequate reporting and 
investigation and to promote further 
a health and safety culture. 
The Health and Safety performance this year 
improved against last year but remains above 
our target to match our lowest ever recorded 
Accident Frequency Rate of 0.09 in 2014. 
As we strive to have zero accidents in our 
businesses, we thoroughly review the root 
Injuries recorded
2016 2015 2014 2013
Days lost due to reportable*  
work-related injuries 464 546 118 382
Total recorded injuries to all employees 342 298 323 320
*  Specified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
cause of any accidents to ensure that we 
take preventative measures, including further 
training and education of our employees. 
Given the autonomous structure of the 
Group, operational responsibility for 
compliance with relevant local health and 
safety regulations resides with the board 
of each operating company. The Halma 
Board sets the tone and minimum standards 
expected of Group companies, in addition 
to its role in monitoring health and 
safety performance. 
Kevin Thompson, Group Finance Director, 
is the director responsible for Halma’s health 
and safety compliance and he is provided 
with sufficient information to routinely 
monitor health and safety performance 
across the Group. 
We are also pleased to report that there 
were no work-related fatalities in 2015/16 
or prior years.
OUR PEOPLE
Our sustained, high level of performance has 
been achieved through the commitment, 
innovation and excellence of our people.
We believe in empowerment. Our 
decentralised management structure  
allows local managers to be autonomous  
and be responsible for making timely 
decisions in the best interests of their 
business. Halma supports personal and 
professional development through a range  
of training programmes. The value of this 
investment is shown both in our financial 
performance and succession planning. 
Almost all of the members on our Executive 
Board have been promoted from our 
subsidiary companies.
We are committed to innovation and 
customer satisfaction. Creating and 
developing new products and new ways  
of working gives us a competitive edge,  
while delivering solutions to some of the 
world’s major problems in safety, health  
and the environment.
We encourage the sharing of knowledge  
and technology throughout Halma. This 
ability to transfer state-of-the-art technology 
from company to company, from one 
sector to another, is something most of our 
competitors simply do not have. Through 
collaboration and sharing best practice we 
continue to deliver market-leading products 
that create benefits for our customers.
We invest a lot of time finding and developing 
the right people who have the initiative, 
knowledge and leadership qualities to make 
a positive impact. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51
In return, we offer:
• The opportunity to make a difference – 
our products make the world a safer 
and healthier place;
• An entrepreneurial business culture;
•  In-house training for personal and 
professional development; 
•  International career development 
opportunities;
•  P e r f or ma n c e - l i n k e d r e w a r ds ;
•  A culture of innovation; and
•  An environment in which success 
breeds success. 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
We offer challenging personal development 
programmes to raise the quality of leadership 
throughout Halma. Our development 
programmes are designed to promote 
personal growth, enhance leadership 
and relationship skills. They also offer the 
chance for employees from diverse Halma 
companies to come together and learn 
from each other. 
Our objective is to provide these individuals 
with the tools and training they need to 
achieve more in their existing role and 
potentially to advance through the 
organisation if their achievements merit it.
The following courses are offered in China, 
USA and Europe:
 – HPD Enterprise – developing ability 
at Managing Director and Sector Vice 
President level to innovate across all 
aspects of the business;
 – Talent Mindset – ensuring the Group 
and company leaders have the capability 
to maximise the quality of talent on their 
teams;
 – HPD Executive – focusing on the 
leadership skills needed at board level 
in our operating companies;
 – HPD Management – personal 
development, enhancing self-awareness 
and teamwork skills for managerial roles; 
and
 – HPD Graduate – our graduate programme 
recruiting and developing the next 
generation of leaders and technical 
specialists.
HPD Enterprise was launched in April 2016 
and helps our Senior Vice Presidents and 
Managing Directors to think entrepreneurially 
about how they can grow their businesses in 
fast-changing markets. HPD Executive and 
HPD Management are well established 
programmes and the cumulative number 
of candidates that have completed each 
course is set out below:
HPD Executive
12 13 14 15 16
194 221 235 263 278
HPD Management
12 13 14 15 16
392 471 539 578 638
During the year we launched a new 
programme that will see Halma MDs serve as 
a non-executive director on the board of a 
sister operating company. We anticipate 
two-way benefit from this programme for 
both the receiving company to gain additional 
insight, perspective and talent; and for the 
non-executive director to have the 
opportunity to see how another Halma board 
operates. 
OUR VALUES 
Periodically we complete a survey of 
employees to determine whether our core 
values are authentic in our organisation. 
The survey establishes the values individual 
employees wish to see in our operating 
culture and to what extent they exist in 
our current culture. In 2006, our survey of 
senior managers showed that five (50%) of 
the values they wanted to see in our business 
were actually present. Since then, we have 
improved the accessibility of the survey by 
making it available in paper format as well  
as online, and by offering it in various 
languages. In the latest survey, conducted in 
January 2016, we had record participation, 
increasing 12% on last year. The number 
of matching values met the target of five 
(50%) indicating that the alignment between 
the values that employees want to see in their 
business and the values that are actually 
present is very good.  
 
Our value driven culture consistently 
demonstrates a sense of purpose in our 
businesses – teams that are aligned and 
highly productive and people that take pride 
in and have commitment to their work – 
resulting in a highly engaged and loyal 
customer base.
The Group will continue to monitor the survey 
results to enable us to better support our 
people in bringing these values and strengths 
to work so that they and we may derive 
further benefit from them.
DIVERSITY
We see diversity and inclusiveness as an 
essential part of our productivity, creativity, 
innovation and competitive advantage. It 
is the foundation of a performance culture 
that promotes respect, understanding 
and appreciation of different perspectives, 
backgrounds and experiences.
Developing regions, including China,  
Brazil, India and Africa make up an  
increasing share of the world population. 
They will account for approximately 88% of 
the global population by 2050. Economically, 
diverse markets represent a growing source 
of consumption and buying power, and we 
must be prepared to serve the needs of the 
changing marketplace.
Because our customer base is constantly 
changing and growing, we need to be 
prepared in the following ways:
• diverse and inclusive enough to recognise 
the needs of customers in our current and 
new markets;
• aware enough to anticipate, respond to, 
and serve the needs of the changing 
marketplace; and
• engaged enough to contribute at the highest 
levels to deliver superior performance. 52 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Sustainability continued
By increasing the diversity and inclusion of 
our workforce and leveraging the insights 
of our diverse talent through an inclusive 
environment, we enhance our ability to 
compete in the world’s increasingly diverse 
marketplace. Our efforts are directed towards 
increasing the proportion of individuals 
with experience in the business and 
geographic markets in which we see 
our operations growing.
Our strong preference is to develop policies 
and actions which support our long-term 
aims as well as establishing appropriate 
measurable targets. We believe the former 
evolves into being embedded into corporate 
culture more readily. 
As part of our Diversity and Inclusion  
Initiative, we have a new programme which 
encourages our  operating companies to 
review the diversity of their directors. Where 
companies decide that they need greater 
diversity they now invite a member of staff to 
join board discussions and decision-making 
as ‘co-opted’ board members.
Co-opted board members are chosen for 
their ability to make a valuable contribution  
to board discussions. Their participation is 
entirely voluntary and they have no legal 
responsibilities. They usually contribute  
to board discussions for a year and then 
another employee is invited to fill the role.
GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY
As our businesses continue to expand 
globally, it is imperative that the insights and 
perspectives of local markets be represented 
on our leadership teams. Several Group 
initiatives have been implemented to support 
and encourage our operating companies to 
put leaders on the ground in key markets.  
We have well-established Halma hubs in China 
and India and have expanded into Brazil as 
well. The China hub has introduced innovative 
R&D programmes to incentivise local product 
development for local markets. We continue 
to seek ways to ensure that local leadership is 
contributing to the global business strategies.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY
At Halma we recognise that the diversity of 
the people in our business and the inclusion 
of all enriches our products, performance 
and the lives of our employees. We believe 
that the diversity of our workforce contributes 
significantly to our aim to protect and improve 
the quality of life for people worldwide.
We are building a culture that encourages 
talented people of all backgrounds, beliefs or 
any form of personal identity to be involved, 
respected and inspired to develop to their 
full potential.
Halma plc Board Directors
1
Other senior managers
2
Other employees
M F Total
6 3 9
M F Total
192 21 213
M F Total
3,238 2,283 5,521
Total (number) Total (%)
M F Total
3,436 2,307 5,743
Male 60%
Female 40%
1
 Includes non-executive Directors of the Company.
2
 For Halma ‘senior managers’ is defined as subsidiary company officers and above.
3
 Figures as at 2 April 2016. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53
Our intention is to create effective team 
environments that enhance decision-making 
processes. We achieve this by encouraging 
the contribution of unique perspectives and 
capabilities to achieve superior business 
results through trust, collaboration and 
innovation of new ideas.
By ensuring fairness and equality of 
opportunity in recruitment, training, 
development, career progression and  
reward, Halma is committed to ensuring 
diversity and inclusion in the workplace  
and all areas of our business.
Each year the Board reviews our policies  
and their implementation to ensure that they 
create and maintain a diverse and inclusive 
organisation. To the same end, the Executive 
Board recently revised our KPIs for Diversity 
to reflect our ambitions for representation 
of women and international leaders at 
all levels in our Group.
Halma believes that the diversity of our staff 
is a significant contributor to our success 
and has identified two specific areas for 
improvement in Halma’s organisation, 
particularly at managerial levels:
1)  Geographic diversity – each board to 
include at least one member whose 
nationality is other than US, UK or 
European. For Emerging Market 
headquartered companies, this becomes 
reversed and the goal is to have at least 
one member whose nationality is of the 
US, UK or Europe. 
2)  Gender diversity – to have at least 30% 
female executives on operating company 
boards by the end of our 2019 financial year.
DISABLED EMPLOYEES
Applications for employment by disabled 
people are always fully considered, bearing 
in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of  
staff becoming disabled, every effort will  
be made to ensure that their employment 
with the Group continues and that 
appropriate training is arranged. It is the 
policy of the Group that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled 
people should, as far as possible, be  
identical to that of other employees.
Compliance with, and respect for, these 
core requirements are integrated within 
our organisation. Everyone working for  
Halma is responsible for having due regard 
for human rights. Managers and supervisors 
must provide leadership that promotes 
human rights as an equal priority to other 
business issues. All employees are 
responsible for ensuring that their own 
actions do not impair the human rights of 
others, and are encouraged to bring forward, 
in confidence, any concerns they may have 
about human rights. Our Chief Executive, 
Andrew Williams, has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that human rights considerations 
are integral to the way in which existing 
operations and new opportunities are 
developed and managed.
ETHICS
The Group culture is one of openness, 
integrity and accountability. Halma requires 
its employees to act fairly in their dealings 
with fellow employees, customers, suppliers 
and business partners. Halma introduced 
a Code of Conduct in 201 1/12 which  
applies to all Group company employees  
and our external business relationships.  
We require suppliers to be of high quality  
and to operate to accepted international 
standards. Halma operates a confidential 
whistleblowing policy, which was refreshed 
and republished in 2015. The external 
provider enables employees to raise any 
concerns they may have in confidence and,  
if they wish, anonymously.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on 
bribery and corruption which extends 
to all business dealings and transactions 
in which we are involved. This includes a 
prohibition on making political donations, 
offering or receiving inappropriate gifts  
or making undue payments to influence  
the outcome of business dealings. Our  
robust policy and guidance in this area  
is routinely reviewed and compliance  
with the policy is checked as part of the 
half-year and year-end process.
 
EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION
The Group places considerable value on 
the involvement of its employees and has 
continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them as employees and on the 
various factors affecting the performance  
of the Group. This is achieved through  
formal and informal meetings, the Group 
collaboration platform and the annual 
financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted 
routinely on a wide range of matters affecting 
their current and future interests.
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria 
of many professional and private investors 
who base their decisions on environmental, 
ethical and social considerations. The Group 
is a world leader in several key environmental 
technologies and has a reputation for 
honesty and integrity in its relationships 
with employees, customers, business 
partners and shareholders.
Social conditions can be improved for all 
through the creation of wealth. Halma creates 
wealth responsibly allowing our employees, 
customers, business partners and 
shareholders to determine where this 
wealth is best distributed.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Halma’s Human Rights and Labour 
Conditions Policy reflects the core 
requirements of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, 
including the conventions relating to forced 
labour, child labour, non-discrimination, 
freedom of association and right to collective 
bargaining. We do not tolerate practices 
which contravene these international 
standards. Regulatory demands upon 
us vary considerably around the world, 
so Halma establishes the core structure to 
ensure that Group companies fully comply 
with legislative and regulatory requirements 
while permitting them to tailor their approach 
to their particular needs. 54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s introduction to Governance
Leading the governance 
agenda
Paul Walker
Chairman
Our success is 
underpinned by the 
robust and meaningful 
corporate governance 
framework that we 
have in place.
Good governance is essential for promoting 
the success of the Company and it sits 
at the heart of how we manage our Group. 
Our success is underpinned by the robust 
and meaningful corporate governance 
framework that we have in place, supported 
by our Group-wide culture of openness, 
transparency, constructive challenge 
and support.
The Board is committed to maintaining  
the highest standards of corporate 
governance and, on their behalf, I am  
pleased to present Halma’s Corporate 
Governance Report for 2016.
This report provides an explanation of  
the framework within which the Group is 
governed and sets out how we have applied 
the main principles and relevant provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
LEADERSHIP
Developing effective leadership throughout the 
Group is essential for attracting and retaining 
talent and aiding succession planning. The 
additional focus that has been given to 
improving the quality and performance of 
Halma’s management talent over the past 
two years has been invaluable. The Board’s 
support of executive activity surrounding 
talent has reinforced this strategic imperative 
across the entire business.
Equally, at Board level, it is important to have 
the right balance of skills and experience, 
while enabling a refresh of non-executive 
Directors over time. Over the past year, we 
have had the opportunity to change the 
composition and responsibilities within the 
Board. Following Stephen Pettit’s retirement 
from the Board after last year’s annual 
general meeting, Tony Rice, non-executive 
Director, became the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and Senior 
Independent Director. Jane Aikman will  
step down as a non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee after our 
Annual General Meeting in July, and Carole 
Cran, who was appointed a non-executive 
Director in January 2016, will assume the  
role of Audit Committee Chairman. 
I would like to thank Jane for her valuable 
contribution to the Company over the last 
nine years, in particular in her role as Audit 
Committee Chairman and for her support 
with Carole Cran’s induction. I am delighted 
to have Carole as a member of our Board 
and welcome her further contribution as  
she prepares for and takes up the role of 
Audit Committee Chairman. 
I believe that we have the right balance of 
skills, experience and knowledge on our 
Board to deliver strong leadership, make 
clear and effective decisions and harness 
an open and transparent culture which 
encourages an entrepreneurial approach 
at a business level.
Biographies for each of the Directors are set 
out on pages 56 and 57 and for those 
Directors standing for election or re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting, are also 
contained within the Notice of Meeting. 
EFFECTIVENESS
Building on the externally facilitated Board 
evaluation that was concluded last year, I have 
continued to work closely with my fellow 
Directors to improve the effectiveness of the 
Board. The competence and culture of open 
challenge that lies within our Board enables 
us to deliver effective decision-making within 
a governance framework which is fit for the 
future growth of the Company.  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PEOPLE AND CULTURE
I reported in last year’s Chairman’s statement 
that we were upgrading our talent and 
education programmes to ensure that we 
have the best people to meet the growing 
demands of our business and customers. 
I am pleased to report that we have made 
considerable progress in this area and have 
continued to foster a culture which is more 
diverse and inclusive. You can read more 
about our talent and leadership initiatives 
on pages 50 and 51.
REWARDING SUCCESS
We recognise that recruiting and retaining 
talent that can deliver the capabilities that 
we need to match Halma’s growth requires 
a reward structure that motivates our people 
to outperform and enables them to share in 
Halma’s success. The executive share plan 
adopted at last year’s annual general meeting 
was designed to incentivise our executives 
and senior management to achieve superior 
returns for the Company and align their 
How the Board supported strategy
Governance at Halma, like its business model, is ingrained in the operating culture throughout the organisation and within the Board of 
Directors. With a model that has had great success in terms of consistent dividend growth and TSR performance in the UK, the Board has 
not needed to oversee any large scale changes but has not been complacent and has continued to improve its processes and procedures  
to ensure that they are fitting for a company that is near the top of the FTSE 250. 
Strategy The Board’s governance role
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board monitors the diversity of the Group’s portfolio of businesses to ensure that proposed acquisitions 
or new market niches of strategic interest complement the strategic objectives of the Group and do not 
dilute the resources of the management teams. The Board also provides sufficient challenge to the internal 
resources dedicated to identifying and evaluating the deal pipeline.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board exemplifies the autonomous culture of the Group as one of providing our employees with the 
space to exercise control and authority having given them the guidance and tools to operate. The Board’s 
support in such endeavours underpins the right behaviours.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board recognises that part of Halma’s fundamental strength not only derives from our selection  
of specialist technologies in markets with resilient growth drivers, but also in our targeting of investment  
in the right opportunities and deliberately placing that investment close to our end markets. The Board 
endorses the agile operating structure which is best suited to deliver successful innovation.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board provides each business with the necessary investment to meet our growth targets,  
but equally, subjects them to rigorous scrutiny so that investment priorities can be evaluated.
reward with the interests of shareholders. 
Further information on the Company’s 
remuneration policy and approach is set 
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
73 to 90.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
CODE 2014 (THE CODE) 
Throughout the year ended 2 April 2016, 
the Company has fully complied with the 
provisions as set out in the Code (a copy of 
which is available on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk). The 
Group’s approach to risk management  
and internal control is summarised on  
pages 28 and 29. 
The Directors confirm that they consider  
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken  
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance. 
The Group’s business model is set out on 
page 12 and an explanation of the strategy 
and longer-term objectives of the Company  
is contained within the Strategic Review on 
pages 4 to 47 . 
BOARD PRIORITIES
Our priorities for 2017 are to continue to: 
improve focus on our customers and their 
needs through innovation and our go-to-
market strategies; seek acquisition 
opportunities in existing and new markets 
which complement our current portfolio  
and which can deliver the growth that 
we expect; and improve the capabilities  
and diversity of our talent.
Paul Walker
Chairman
14 June 2016 56 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Board of Directors
Composition of the Board 
and the Executive Board
PAUL WALKER 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Paul was appointed non-executive Chairman 
of Halma in July 2013, having been appointed 
to the Board in April 2013. Paul is non-
executive Chairman of Perform Group plc 
and WANdisco plc and a non-executive 
director of Experian plc and Sophos Group 
plc. He was CEO at the Sage Group plc from 
1994 to 2010 and has previously served on 
the boards of Diageo plc and Mytravel Group 
plc. Paul qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young, having graduated from 
York University with an economics degree.
ANDREW WILLIAMS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Andrew was appointed Chief Executive of 
Halma plc in February 2005. He was 
promoted to Director of the Halma plc Board 
in 2004. Andrew joined the Halma Executive 
Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief Executive 
after joining Halma in 1994 as Manufacturing 
Director of Reten Acoustics (now HWM-
Water), where he became Managing Director 
in 1997 . He is a Chartered Engineer and 
a production engineering graduate of 
Birmingham University. He attended the 
Advanced Management Program at Wharton 
Business School in 2004. Andrew is a 
non-executive director of Capita plc.
KEVIN THOMPSON 
FINANCE DIRECTOR
Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board 
in 1998. He became Group Finance Director 
in 1997 after joining the Halma Executive 
Board as Finance Director in 1995. Kevin 
joined Halma as Group Financial Controller 
in 1987 . Kevin qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Price Waterhouse and is 
an economics and accounting graduate of 
Bristol University. He attended the Advanced 
Management Program at Harvard Business 
School in 2007 .
CAROLE CRAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Carole Cran was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in January 2016. She is 
Chief Financial Officer at Aggreko plc having 
held a number of senior financial roles since 
joining Aggreko in 2004. Previously Carole 
spent seven years at BAE Systems, in a 
range of senior financial positions, including 
four years in Australia. Carole qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with KPMG and has 
a degree in Accountancy from the University 
of Aberdeen.
TONY RICE
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Tony was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in August 2014. He 
is a non-executive director of Dechra 
Pharmaceuticals PLC and was formerly 
the senior independent director and 
remuneration committee chairman of Spirit 
Pub Company plc. Earlier in his career, 
Tony was chief executive officer of Cable 
& Wireless Communications plc, CEO of 
Tunstall Plc and held a number of senior 
roles in BAE Systems plc (including British 
Aerospace). Tony has a BA in Business 
Studies from City of London College, an MBA 
from Cranfield School of Management and 
is a member of both the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers and the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
ROY TWITE
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Roy was appointed a non-executive Director 
of Halma in July 2014. He is an executive 
director at IMI plc, having been appointed to 
the plc board in February 2007 . During his 
career with IMI, Roy has led all of the divisions 
including Severe Service (201 1), Fluid Power 
(2009), Beverage and Merchandising (2007) 
and Indoor Climate (2004). Roy has a BEng 
in Engineering from Nottingham University 
and gained his Masters in Manufacturing 
Business Leadership from Cambridge 
University in 1998.
Committee membership 
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Paul Walker • • Andrew Williams • Kevin Thompson
Adam Meyers
Jane Aikman • • • Daniela Barone Soares • • • Roy Twite • • • Tony Rice • • • 1
Carole Cran
2
• • • • Chairman • Member 
1
 Appointed Chairman following Stephen Pettit’s retirement in July 2015.
2
 Appointed in January 2016.
ADAM MEYERS 
SECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE, MEDICAL
Adam joined the Halma plc Board in April 
2008 and is Chief Executive of the Medical 
sector. He became a member of the Halma 
Executive Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief 
Executive, having joined Halma in 1996 as 
President of Bio-Chem Valve. Adam gained 
his MBA from Harvard Business School and 
is a systems engineering graduate of the 
University of Pennsylvania.
JANE AIKMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Jane was appointed a non-executive Director 
of Halma in August 2007 . She was Chief 
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
of Phoenix IT Group plc until August 2015 
and was previously Finance Director of Infinis 
Limited, Wilson Bowden Plc and Pressac plc. 
Jane spent three years as an internal audit 
manager with GEC Alsthom and five years 
in East Asia with Asia Pulp and Paper 
Co Limited. She qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Ernst & Young and has 
a degree in civil engineering from 
Birmingham University.
DANIELA BARONE SOARES
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Daniela was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in November 201 1. In 
September 2014, Daniela was appointed  
as non-executive Director of Brazil-based 
holding company Evora S.A. She was 
previously Chief Executive of Impetus  
– the Private Equity Foundation and she  
has held senior roles at Save the Children, 
BancBoston Capital, Goldman Sachs and 
Citibank. Daniela has an MBA from Harvard 
Business School and a BSc in economics 
from Universidade Estadual de Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Brazil.
CAROL CHESNEY 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Carol was appointed Company Secretary  
of Halma plc in 1998. She joined Halma in 
1995 as Group Finance Manager having 
spent three years with English China Clays 
plc. She qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Arthur Andersen and is a mathematics 
graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman’s 
College, Virginia. Carol is a non-executive 
director of Renishaw plc where she chairs 
the Audit Committee. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PAUL WALKER 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Paul was appointed non-executive Chairman 
of Halma in July 2013, having been appointed 
to the Board in April 2013. Paul is non-
executive Chairman of Perform Group plc 
and WANdisco plc and a non-executive 
director of Experian plc and Sophos Group 
plc. He was CEO at the Sage Group plc from 
1994 to 2010 and has previously served on 
the boards of Diageo plc and Mytravel Group 
plc. Paul qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young, having graduated from 
York University with an economics degree.
ANDREW WILLIAMS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Andrew was appointed Chief Executive of 
Halma plc in February 2005. He was 
promoted to Director of the Halma plc Board 
in 2004. Andrew joined the Halma Executive 
Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief Executive 
after joining Halma in 1994 as Manufacturing 
Director of Reten Acoustics (now HWM-
Water), where he became Managing Director 
in 1997 . He is a Chartered Engineer and 
a production engineering graduate of 
Birmingham University. He attended the 
Advanced Management Program at Wharton 
Business School in 2004. Andrew is a 
non-executive director of Capita plc.
KEVIN THOMPSON 
FINANCE DIRECTOR
Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board 
in 1998. He became Group Finance Director 
in 1997 after joining the Halma Executive 
Board as Finance Director in 1995. Kevin 
joined Halma as Group Financial Controller 
in 1987 . Kevin qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Price Waterhouse and is 
an economics and accounting graduate of 
Bristol University. He attended the Advanced 
Management Program at Harvard Business 
School in 2007 .
CAROLE CRAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Carole Cran was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in January 2016. She is 
Chief Financial Officer at Aggreko plc having 
held a number of senior financial roles since 
joining Aggreko in 2004. Previously Carole 
spent seven years at BAE Systems, in a 
range of senior financial positions, including 
four years in Australia. Carole qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with KPMG and has 
a degree in Accountancy from the University 
of Aberdeen.
TONY RICE
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Tony was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in August 2014. He 
is a non-executive director of Dechra 
Pharmaceuticals PLC and was formerly 
the senior independent director and 
remuneration committee chairman of Spirit 
Pub Company plc. Earlier in his career, 
Tony was chief executive officer of Cable 
& Wireless Communications plc, CEO of 
Tunstall Plc and held a number of senior 
roles in BAE Systems plc (including British 
Aerospace). Tony has a BA in Business 
Studies from City of London College, an MBA 
from Cranfield School of Management and 
is a member of both the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers and the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
ROY TWITE
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Roy was appointed a non-executive Director 
of Halma in July 2014. He is an executive 
director at IMI plc, having been appointed to 
the plc board in February 2007 . During his 
career with IMI, Roy has led all of the divisions 
including Severe Service (201 1), Fluid Power 
(2009), Beverage and Merchandising (2007) 
and Indoor Climate (2004). Roy has a BEng 
in Engineering from Nottingham University 
and gained his Masters in Manufacturing 
Business Leadership from Cambridge 
University in 1998.
Committee membership 
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Paul Walker • • Andrew Williams • Kevin Thompson
Adam Meyers
Jane Aikman • • • Daniela Barone Soares • • • Roy Twite • • • Tony Rice • • • 1
Carole Cran
2
• • • • Chairman • Member 
1
 Appointed Chairman following Stephen Pettit’s retirement in July 2015.
2
 Appointed in January 2016.
ADAM MEYERS 
SECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE, MEDICAL
Adam joined the Halma plc Board in April 
2008 and is Chief Executive of the Medical 
sector. He became a member of the Halma 
Executive Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief 
Executive, having joined Halma in 1996 as 
President of Bio-Chem Valve. Adam gained 
his MBA from Harvard Business School and 
is a systems engineering graduate of the 
University of Pennsylvania.
JANE AIKMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Jane was appointed a non-executive Director 
of Halma in August 2007 . She was Chief 
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
of Phoenix IT Group plc until August 2015 
and was previously Finance Director of Infinis 
Limited, Wilson Bowden Plc and Pressac plc. 
Jane spent three years as an internal audit 
manager with GEC Alsthom and five years 
in East Asia with Asia Pulp and Paper 
Co Limited. She qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Ernst & Young and has 
a degree in civil engineering from 
Birmingham University.
DANIELA BARONE SOARES
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Daniela was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in November 201 1. In 
September 2014, Daniela was appointed  
as non-executive Director of Brazil-based 
holding company Evora S.A. She was 
previously Chief Executive of Impetus  
– the Private Equity Foundation and she  
has held senior roles at Save the Children, 
BancBoston Capital, Goldman Sachs and 
Citibank. Daniela has an MBA from Harvard 
Business School and a BSc in economics 
from Universidade Estadual de Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Brazil.
CAROL CHESNEY 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Carol was appointed Company Secretary  
of Halma plc in 1998. She joined Halma in 
1995 as Group Finance Manager having 
spent three years with English China Clays 
plc. She qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Arthur Andersen and is a mathematics 
graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman’s 
College, Virginia. Carol is a non-executive 
director of Renishaw plc where she chairs 
the Audit Committee. 58 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Executive Board
ANDREW WILLIAMS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
Location UK
KEVIN THOMPSON 
FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Location UK
ADAM MEYERS 
SECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE, MEDICAL 
Location USA
The biographies of Andrew Williams, Kevin Thompson and Adam Meyers are on page 56.
CHUCK DUBOIS
SECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE, 
ENVIRONMENTAL & ANALYSIS
Location USA
Chuck was appointed to the Executive Board 
in April 2008 and is Chief Executive of the 
Environmental & Analysis sector. He joined 
the Group in 1999 as Vice President of Perma 
Pure LLC and was previously President of 
Diba Industries. He earned his MBA from 
the F .W. Olin School of Business at Babson 
College and holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
physics from the College of the Holy Cross. 
Chuck attended the Advanced Management 
Program at Harvard Business School in 2013.
PHILIPPE FELTEN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE,  
PROCESS SAFETY
Location Belgium
Philippe joined the Executive Board in  
April 2012 and is Chief Executive of the 
Process Safety sector. He joined the Group 
as Sales Director of BEA Europe when that 
company was acquired in 2002 and was  
later Chief Executive of BEA Group. Philippe 
completed the Programme for Executive 
Development at IMD Lausanne, holds a 
degree in Marketing and Management 
(ICHEC – Brussels) and is an Electro-
Mechanical Engineer (ECAM – Brussels).
NIGEL TRODD
SECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE, 
INFRASTRUCTURE SAFETY
Location UK
Nigel was appointed to the Executive  
Board in July 2003 and is Chief Executive  
of the Infrastructure Safety sector. He joined 
Halma in July 2003 as Chief Executive of the 
Process Safety Division. Nigel is a member  
of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and  
a business studies graduate of Thames 
Valley University. 
JENNIFER WARD
GROUP TALENT DIRECTOR
Location UK
Jennifer was appointed as Halma’s first 
Group Talent Director in March 2014. Prior to 
joining Halma, Jennifer spent over 15 years 
leading HR, Talent and Organisational 
Development for divisions of PayPal (an eBay 
company), Bank of America and Honeywell. 
She has a Master’s degree from Michigan 
State University and a Bachelor of Science 
degree from Oregon State University.
MARTIN ZHANG
PRESIDENT – HALMA CHINA
Location China
Martin joined the Executive Board in 2010 
having advised that board since 2008.  
He joined the Group in June 2006. Martin 
holds an Executive MBA from the University 
of Texas at Arlington (Tongji University 
Shanghai) and a degree in chemical 
engineering from Chengdu University of 
Science and Technology. Martin attended  
the Advanced Management Program at 
Wharton Business School in 2014 and is  
also a Certified Management Accountant. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Governance Report
Leadership
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
The ultimate role of the Board is to promote 
the long-term success of the Company by 
delivering sustainable shareholder value. In 
order to fulfil its duty, the Board must ensure 
that the Group operates within a clearly 
defined operating structure which fits within 
a robust governance and control framework.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the 
management, direction and performance of 
the Group, and sets the strategic goals which 
the Company’s businesses implement 
through their business plans. The Board is 
also responsible for ensuring appropriate 
resources are in place to achieve its strategy 
and deliver sustainable performance.
The Board’s powers are derived from the 
Company’s Articles of Association but certain 
decisions and oversight roles have been 
delegated to its Committees. The Board has 
established a formal schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision and has approved 
terms of reference where it has delegated 
responsibilities to its Committees. 
The Chairman of each Committee reports 
at Board meetings on the activities of the 
Committee and Committee minutes are 
reviewed and approved at Board meetings. 
Matters that are formally reserved for 
decision by the Board are set out in 
writing and include:
• setting the Group’s long-term objectives 
and commercial strategy;
• approving annual operating and capital 
expenditure budgets;
• ceasing all or a material part of the 
Group’s business;
• significantly extending the Group’s activities 
into new business or geographic areas;
• changing the share capital or 
corporate structure of the Company;
• changing the Group’s management 
and control structure;
• approving half year and full year results 
and reports;
• approving dividend policy and the 
declaration of dividends;
• approving significant changes 
to accounting policies;
• approving key policies;
• approving risk management 
procedures and policies, including 
anti-bribery and corruption;
• approving major investments, disposals, 
capital projects or contracts (including 
bank borrowings and debt facilities);
• approving guarantees and material 
indemnities (not otherwise delegated 
to the Bank Guarantees and 
Facilities Committee);
• approving resolutions to be put to  
the AGM and documents or circulars  
to be sent to shareholders; and
• approving changes to the Board  
structure, size or its composition  
(following the recommendation  
of the Nomination Committee).
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
The role of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate and the division of their 
responsibilities is set out below.
Board roles and responsibilities
CHAIRMAN’S 
RESPONSIBILITIES
Governance
• promoting high standards of corporate governance;
• leading, chairing and managing the Board;
• ensuring all Board Committees are properly structured and operate with appropriate terms of reference;
• regularly considering the composition and succession planning of the Board and its Committees;
• ensuring that the Board and its Committees’ performance are evaluated on a regular basis;
• ensuring adequate time is available for all agenda items and that the Board receives accurate, 
clear and timely information; and
• ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders.
Strategy
• leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business and achievement of its objectives;
• promoting open and constructive debate in Board meetings;
• ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions with the support of the Chief Executive;
• ensuring that the Board manages risk effectively; and
• consulting, where appropriate, with the Senior Independent Director on Board matters.
People
• chairing the Nomination Committee;
• identifying and meeting the induction and development needs of the Board and its committees;
• developing a strong working relationship with the Chief Executive; 
• ensuring a strong working relationship between executive and non-executive Directors;
• setting clear expectations concerning the Company’s culture, values and behaviours; and
• ensuring effective relationships are maintained with all major stakeholders in the business. 60 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Board roles and responsibilities continued
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
RESPONSIBILITIES
• providing coherent leadership and management of the Company with the Chairman;
• developing objectives, strategy and performance standards to be agreed by the Board;
• providing input to the Board’s agenda;
• providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to achieve the agreed strategies and objectives;
• securing an Executive Board of the right calibre, with specific responsibility for its composition, and 
ensuring that its succession plan is reviewed annually with the Chairman and the non-executive Directors;
• monitoring, reviewing and managing key risks and strategies with the Board;
• ensuring that the assets of the Group are adequately safeguarded and maintained;
• building and maintaining the Company’s communications and standing with shareholders, financial 
institutions and the public and effectively communicating the Halma plc investment proposition to 
all stakeholders;
• ensuring the Board is aware of the view of employees on issues of relevance to Halma plc;
• living and fostering the Group values which promote ethical practices, integrity and a positive  
work environment, enabling the Group to attract, retain and motivate a diverse group of high-quality 
employees; and leading by example in establishing a performance orientated, customer focused  
and publicly responsible Group culture.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS • implementing and delivering the strategy and operational decisions agreed by the Board;
• making operational and financial decisions required in the day-to-day management of the Company;
• providing executive leadership to senior management across the business;
• championing the Group’s values and reinforcing the governance and control procedures; and
• promoting talent management, encouraging diversity and inclusion.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTOR
• acting as a sounding board for the Chairman; 
• serving as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors; and
• providing an alternative channel for shareholders to raise concerns, independent of executive 
management and the Chairman.
INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
• contributing independent thinking and judgement, and providing external experience and knowledge, 
to the Board agenda;
• scrutinising the performance of management in delivering the Company’s strategy and objectives;
• providing constructive challenge to the executive Directors; and
• monitoring the reporting of performance and ensuring that the Company is operating within the 
governance and risk framework approved by the Board.
COMPANY SECRETARY • acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and other Directors;
• ensuring clear and timely information flow to the Board and its Committees; and
• providing advice and support to the Board on matters of corporate governance and risk. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK
Halma companies benefit from a highly 
decentralised organisational structure which 
delivers sustainable competitive advantage 
while maintaining the benefit of being part 
of a larger group (through collaboration 
with other Group companies and central 
investment in areas such as talent 
development, innovation and international 
expansion). A robust corporate governance 
framework is essential in a decentralised 
group in order to maintain good oversight 
and control over: financial and management 
reporting; compliance and regulatory matters; 
risk management; and the approval of 
significant decisions (such as acquisitions, 
disposals or material agreements). The 
operation of the Board and its Committees  
is described in this Report and further 
information on each Committee is detailed 
within the separate Committee Reports. 
The diagram opposite sets out the top level 
corporate governance framework for Halma 
and how the Board and its Committees 
interact. The interface between the operating 
companies and this governance framework  
is described below and is illustrated in the 
diagram on page 29 in relation to Group risk 
management.
Each operating subsidiary company within 
the Group has its own board of directors, 
which meets regularly to fulfil its legal duties 
and operational and financial obligations in 
managing the affairs of the company. The 
Sector CEO, or a Sector Vice President, is 
appointed as a director of each subsidiary 
within their sector and acts as Chairman at 
each board meeting. Each subsidiary must 
operate in accordance with the Group’s 
internal procedures, which set out the 
minimum standards required in the areas 
of financial reporting, health and safety, 
ethics, administration and information
technology. These procedures are made 
available throughout the Group via a  
centrally managed electronic portal and  
each procedure is subject to regular review.
Each of the four sectors has a management 
board which meets regularly to review 
financial and operational performance and 
governance matters relating to companies 
within that sector. Reports prepared by each 
Sector CEO are provided to, and reviewed 
by, the Executive Board. 
Corporate Governance Report continued Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Board governance structure
Reporting requirements chart
Reporting requirement Location
Description of the business model and strategy. Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 
and Sector Reviews 
 See pages 4 to 12 and 34 to 41
Description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to 
the financial statements and how these issues were addressed, having regard to the 
matters communicated to it by the external audit team. 
Audit Committee Report  
 See page 69
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process and the approach taken to the reappointment of the external auditor to 
enable shareholders to understand why it recommended reappointing. 
Audit Committee Report  
 See page 69
Identification of search consultancies used and any connections with the Company. Nomination Committee report  
 See page 66
Statement that the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance. 
Corporate Governance Report 
 See page 54
Future policy table and notes, performance scenario charts, remuneration obligations in 
service contracts and statement of shareholder vote on the 2015 remuneration report. 
Remuneration Committee Report  
 See page 73
Policy implementation, remuneration paid to service advisers, single total figure tables, 
CEO pay comparison to Company performance and relative importance of spend on pay. 
Remuneration Committee Report  
 See page 73
Directors’ shareholdings and variable pay awarded in the year. Remuneration Committee Report  
 See page 73
Board 
Provides strategic leadership to the Group within a framework of robust corporate governance and internal control, setting the culture, values and 
standards that are embedded throughout our business to deliver long-term sustainable growth for the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders
Nomination Committee
• reviews the composition 
of the Board;
• oversees the Board’s 
succession planning; and
• keeps under review the 
leadership needs of, and 
succession planning for, 
the Company.
Audit Committee
• monitors the integrity  
of financial statements;
• oversees risk management 
and control;
• monitors the effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function; 
and
• reviews external auditor 
independence and will lead 
the audit tender process.
Remuneration Committee
• keeps under review the 
framework and policy on 
executive Director and senior 
management remuneration 
(including pension 
arrangements); and
• approves the design,  
targets and framework  
for share plan awards.
Share Plans Committee
Responsible for the 
administration arrangements 
relating to employee share 
based incentives (following 
approval of the award basis 
by the Remuneration 
Committee or the Board).
Bank Guarantees and 
Facilities Committee
Agrees and approves 
arrangements for issuing 
guarantees, indemnities or 
other support for bank loans 
and other financing facilities.
Acquisition and 
Disposals Committee
Reviews and approves  
the terms and structure of 
acquisitions or disposals 
which have been agreed  
in principle by the Board.
Executive Board
• a management committee 
chaired by the Chief 
Executive, which reviews 
operational matters and 
business performance;
• reinforces the operational 
and governance 
structures that are in place 
across the Group; and
• acts as a forum for 
management decisions.
Read more p69 Read more p73 Read more p66 62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance Report continued
The Board’s year
April 2015
• Budget
• Chairman and NED fees 
• CEO conference 
objectives
• Sector review
• NED search and 
candidate specification
• AGM formal business
• Approval of terms  
of reference
• Approval of European 
cash pooling 
arrangements
June 2015
• Preliminary results
• Dividend planning
• Evaluation of prior  
year objectives
• Annual objectives  
for the Group
• Annual assessment  
of internal control 
processes
• AGM Notice of Meeting
• Review of new share 
plan rules
• Cyber security update
• Sector review
July 2015
• AGM and trading update
• PSP awards
• SIP award review
• M&A update
• Sector review
• Strategy planning review
October 2015
• Group strategic performance and priorities
• Talent assessment and development
• Diversity
• Sector strategy reviews
• PSP award vesting
• M&A update
• Cyber security update
November 2015
• Half year results
• Dividend planning
• Sector review
• M&A update
January 2016
• Budget (draft)
• Board effectiveness and  
Committee evaluation
• Annual review of non-executive  
Director conflicts, independence  
and division of responsibilities
• Trading update
• Risk management review
• Sector review
• M&A update
• Cyber security update
• Employee Benefit Trust funding
• HITE arrangements
STANDING BOARD AGENDA ITEMS
In addition to the above Board matters considered over the past year, at each meeting 
there are standing items, which include:
• Review and approval of the previous minutes;
• Status update on any matters outstanding from previous meetings;
• Updates from each Board Committee on the activities since the last Board meeting;
• Report from the Chief Executive;
• Report from the Finance Director;
• Investor Relations report;
• Health & Safety review;
• Risk review;
• Corporate governance update;
• Compliance & integrity report; and
• Updates from the Company Secretary on administrative matters.
Board meeting attendance
During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Committees
Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Overall 
attendance  
%
Paul Walker 6/6 – 4/4 3/3 100%
Andrew Williams 6/6 – – 3/3 100%
Kevin Thompson 6/6 – – – 100%
Stephen Pettit
1
3/3 1/1 2/2 1/1 100%
Neil Quinn
2
1/1 – – – 100%
Jane Aikman
3
6/6 3/3 4/4 2/3 94%
Adam Meyers 6/6 – – – 100%
Daniela Barone Soares
3
6/6 3/3 4/4 2/3 94%
Roy Twite 6/6 3/3 4/4 3/3 100%
Tony Rice 6/6 3/3 4/4 3/3 100%
Carole Cran
4
1/1 1/1 1/1 1/1 100%
1
  Stephen Pettit retired following the conclusion of the AGM on 23 July 2015.
2
  Neil Quinn retired from the Board on 14 May 2015.
3
  Jane Aikman and Daniela Barone Soares were unable to attend the Nomination Committee meeting on 3 June 2015 due to illness.
4
 Carole Cran was appointed as non-executive Director on 1 January 2016.
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board has six regular meetings 
scheduled each year but will meet, as 
required, to consider urgent matters. 
During the year an ad hoc meeting was 
held to consider and approve the US 
Private Placement.
Directors are issued with an agenda and 
comprehensive electronic meeting papers 
in the week preceding each Board meeting. 
The Board and each Director has access 
to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, as well as the option of obtaining 
independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense. 
PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES 
OF THE BOARD
The Board has established three  
principal Committees:
• the Nomination Committee;
• the Audit Committee; and
• the Remuneration Committee.
Details of their constitution and the roles  
and responsibilities of each Committee  
are set out in their respective Reports,  
which follow this Corporate 
Governance Report.
The Board has also established three formal 
Committees to which it has delegated certain 
powers to negotiate, review and administer 
specific areas of responsibility:
• the Share Plans Committee;
• the Bank Guarantees and Facilities 
Committee; and
• the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Each Committee operates under its own 
terms of reference, which have been 
approved by the Board.
In addition, the Board has established an 
informal management committee, the 
Executive Board, which is chaired by the 
Chief Executive. This Executive Board 
provides a forum in which the executives, 
representing their sector or functional area, 
can review and take decisions on operational 
and financial matters that arise in the 
day-to-day business operations. The 
Executive Board is also an effective means 
of communicating actions from the Halma 
Board and obtaining executive support 
to implement such decisions. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board’s year
April 2015
• Budget
• Chairman and NED fees 
• CEO conference 
objectives
• Sector review
• NED search and 
candidate specification
• AGM formal business
• Approval of terms  
of reference
• Approval of European 
cash pooling 
arrangements
June 2015
• Preliminary results
• Dividend planning
• Evaluation of prior  
year objectives
• Annual objectives  
for the Group
• Annual assessment  
of internal control 
processes
• AGM Notice of Meeting
• Review of new share 
plan rules
• Cyber security update
• Sector review
July 2015
• AGM and trading update
• PSP awards
• SIP award review
• M&A update
• Sector review
• Strategy planning review
October 2015
• Group strategic performance and priorities
• Talent assessment and development
• Diversity
• Sector strategy reviews
• PSP award vesting
• M&A update
• Cyber security update
November 2015
• Half year results
• Dividend planning
• Sector review
• M&A update
January 2016
• Budget (draft)
• Board effectiveness and  
Committee evaluation
• Annual review of non-executive  
Director conflicts, independence  
and division of responsibilities
• Trading update
• Risk management review
• Sector review
• M&A update
• Cyber security update
• Employee Benefit Trust funding
• HITE arrangements
STANDING BOARD AGENDA ITEMS
In addition to the above Board matters considered over the past year, at each meeting 
there are standing items, which include:
• Review and approval of the previous minutes;
• Status update on any matters outstanding from previous meetings;
• Updates from each Board Committee on the activities since the last Board meeting;
• Report from the Chief Executive;
• Report from the Finance Director;
• Investor Relations report;
• Health & Safety review;
• Risk review;
• Corporate governance update;
• Compliance & integrity report; and
• Updates from the Company Secretary on administrative matters.
Board meeting attendance
During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Committees
Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Overall 
attendance  
%
Paul Walker 6/6 – 4/4 3/3 100%
Andrew Williams 6/6 – – 3/3 100%
Kevin Thompson 6/6 – – – 100%
Stephen Pettit
1
3/3 1/1 2/2 1/1 100%
Neil Quinn
2
1/1 – – – 100%
Jane Aikman
3
6/6 3/3 4/4 2/3 94%
Adam Meyers 6/6 – – – 100%
Daniela Barone Soares
3
6/6 3/3 4/4 2/3 94%
Roy Twite 6/6 3/3 4/4 3/3 100%
Tony Rice 6/6 3/3 4/4 3/3 100%
Carole Cran
4
1/1 1/1 1/1 1/1 100%
1
  Stephen Pettit retired following the conclusion of the AGM on 23 July 2015.
2
  Neil Quinn retired from the Board on 14 May 2015.
3
  Jane Aikman and Daniela Barone Soares were unable to attend the Nomination Committee meeting on 3 June 2015 due to illness.
4
 Carole Cran was appointed as non-executive Director on 1 January 2016. 64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance Report continued
Effectiveness
TIME ALLOCATION
The Board benefits from the wide variety of 
skills, experience and knowledge that each 
Director has. However, being available and 
committing sufficient time to the Company 
is essential and therefore the number of 
external directorships that a non-executive 
Director holds is an important consideration 
when recruiting and when performing the 
annual evaluation of non-executive 
Directors effectiveness. 
Executive Directors are permitted to accept 
one external appointment, subject to the prior 
approval of the Chairman. Approval will only 
be given where the appointment does not 
present a conflict of interest with the Group’s 
activities and where the role is considered 
to be beneficial to the development of 
the individual, which will also benefit 
the Company.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings 
(six per year), non-executive Directors are 
expected to attend the AGM, the annual 
strategy meeting and certain other Company 
events and site visits throughout the year. 
A time commitment of around 20 days per 
annum is the anticipated requirement for 
each non-executive Director. Confirmation 
is obtained on appointment from each 
non-executive Director that they can allocate 
sufficient time to the role. Details of Board 
attendance during the year is set out on page 
63 and biographical details of each Director 
are set out on pages 56 and 57 .
INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTORS
Newly appointed non-executive Directors 
follow a tailored induction programme, 
which includes dedicated time with Group 
executives and visits to companies within 
each of the four sectors. 
Carole Cran met with the Company Secretary 
to review the tailored induction materials, 
which provide a comprehensive overview of: 
the Group and the legal and organisational 
structure; the governance framework; the 
role of non-executive Director; key business 
contacts at Group, sector and operating 
company level; and details of the external 
advisers. In addition to the latest Annual 
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
The Board is comprised of the Chairman,  
five independent non-executive Directors  
and three executive Directors. The Board 
views this structure as a suitable balance  
of direct knowledge of the Group’s  
operations with independent challenge  
and experience from outside the Company.
BOARD DIVERSITY
The Board recognises the benefits to an 
International group of greater diversity on 
the Board and in management positions 
throughout the Group. At the year end, and at 
the date of this Report, the Board comprised 
nine Directors, including three women (33%). 
The spread of nationalities are seven British, 
one American and one Brazilian. 
Halma has the ambition to increase the 
number of executives based outside Europe 
and the USA to better reflect the revenue 
generated outside those markets and to 
embrace diversity and inclusion across the 
Group. To support this ambition, the Board 
has adopted a Diversity and Inclusion policy 
and a programme of training to support the 
policy has been rolled out to senior 
executives and head office personnel. 
Operating subsidiary company boards are 
encouraged to invite local personnel with 
diverse skill sets to attend board meetings 
to provide a fresh perspective and bring 
a diverse and inclusive approach to the 
decision-making body.
INDEPENDENCE
The Board has reviewed the independence 
of the Chairman and each non-executive 
Director and considers the Chairman and 
all of the non-executive Directors to be 
independent of management and free from 
business or other relationships that could 
interfere with the exercise of independent 
judgement. The Board believes that any 
shares in the Company held by the Chairman 
and non-executive Directors serve to align 
their interests with those of the shareholders.
Tony Rice was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director in July 2015, following 
the retirement of Stephen Pettit from 
the Board. 
Report and Company announcements, 
further materials such as recent broker 
coverage, the last Board evaluation and  
CEO conference presentations were  
also provided. Carole met the Chairman,  
Chief Executive and Finance Director on a 
one-to-one basis on her appointment and 
has subsequently met the other members  
of the Board and Executive Board along with 
senior managers from Head Office functions 
and the sectors. A varied programme of site 
visits to operating companies across the 
sectors is being arranged, which will include 
the opportunity for Carole to meet investors 
at the forthcoming investor event.
The Chairman reviews training and 
development needs of the Board, and each 
individual Director, at least annually. Briefings 
and presentations from subject specialists 
form part of the ongoing training needs for 
the Directors.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of 
its performance, and of each Director, on an 
annual basis. The principal Committees of the 
Board undertake an annual evaluation of their 
effectiveness, in accordance with their terms 
of reference.
As in prior years, the Board met in January 
2016 before its scheduled meeting to provide 
a forum for discussion of the Board evaluation 
outside the formal meeting. This forum has 
proven useful for a number of years. The 
Chairman and non-executive Directors also 
meet after each Board meeting without 
executive Directors present to ensure there is 
an opportunity to discuss potentially sensitive 
matters. The Chief Executive will join for part 
of these meetings at least once per annum. 
The Senior Independent Director meets with 
the non-executive Directors without the 
Chairman present, at least annually, to 
evaluate the Chairman’s performance. 
The Executives are also given the opportunity 
to meet with the Chairman and/or the Senior 
Independent Director separately. The 
outcome of these meetings is fed back 
to individuals by the Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director or Chief Executive, 
as appropriate. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board and Committee evaluations 
conducted in 2015 were externally facilitated 
by EquityCommunications. Accordingly, the 
Board and Committee evaluation for 2016  
was an internal evaluation, conducted by the 
Chairman having a structured one-to-one 
session with each member of the Board/
Committees and the Company Secretary. 
The results were anonymised and provided 
to the whole Board in January 2016. 
The main areas of focus arising from the 
evaluation process, and subsequently 
discussed by the Board, were: the size  
and balance of the Board; the continued 
development of the Group’s strategic priorities 
and future direction; executive succession 
planning; and the allocation of resources. 
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
With the exception of Jane Aikman who will 
retire from the Board after the AGM, all of the 
current Directors will stand for re-election, 
and in the case of Carole Cran, election, 
at the forthcoming AGM.
Following the annual evaluation of the Board 
and its Committees, all Directors standing for 
election or re-election at the AGM continue 
to be effective, hold recent and relevant 
experience and continue to demonstrate 
commitment to the role. Biographical details 
of each Director standing for election or 
re-election are set out in the Notice of Meeting. 
LIABILITY INSURANCE
Each Director is covered by appropriate 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, at 
the Company’s expense. In addition, there 
are Deeds of Indemnity in place, which 
provide an indemnity from the Company to 
the Director in respect of any proceedings 
brought by third parties against Directors 
personally in their capacity as Directors of the 
Company. The indemnity does not extend to 
certain areas, including: any liability to pay a 
fine levied in criminal proceedings; defending 
criminal proceedings where the Director is 
convicted and such conviction is final; 
defending any civil proceedings brought by 
the Company or an associated company; 
or in any proceedings for disqualification 
of the Director.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance  
of effective communication with our 
shareholders. In regular meetings with 
shareholders and analysts the Chief 
Executive and Finance Director communicate 
the Group’s strategy and results, disclosing 
such information as is permitted within 
the guidelines of the Listing Rules. Such 
meetings ensure that institutional shareholders 
representing over 50% of the Company’s 
issued share capital meet or hold discussions 
with the Company on a regular basis. Major 
shareholders are also offered the opportunity 
to meet the Chairman and/or Senior 
Independent Director. Notes from all investor 
meetings are circulated to the Chairman with 
investor feedback from results roadshows 
circulated to the whole Board.
The Company consults with its major 
shareholders on significant matters – for 
example, the Remuneration Committee 
consulted the top 10 shareholders last year 
regarding its proposed remuneration policy 
and practice. Major shareholders are invited 
to attend briefings following the half-year 
and annual results. Once again, the Chief 
Executive hosted a dinner in London 
during February 2016 for analysts and 
institutional investors. No new material 
financial information or updates on trading  
is provided at such events. In September 
2015, the Company hosted a site visit to 
Crowcon in Abingdon, UK, for analysts and 
investors. The event focused on Halma’s 
Process Safety sector, including Crowcon’s 
operations. Slides and a summary of the 
presentation given may be viewed or 
downloaded from the Company’s website 
at www.halma.com.
The content of presentations to shareholders 
and analysts at results announcements,  
news releases about the Group and all 
regulatory announcements are also available 
on the Company’s website. Shareholders  
are encouraged to visit www.halma.com  
to access Annual Report and Accounts,  
Half Year Reports, biographical information 
on Directors and the Executive Board, share 
price information and subsidiary company
contact details (including links to their 
own websites). The website features the 
facility to request e-mail alerts relating to 
announcements made by the Group and 
there is a feedback form to invite suggestions 
for improvements to the website and our 
investor relations activities.
Shareholders can keep up to date with the 
latest Halma financial news, on the move, 
with our Investor Relations iPad app. This is 
available as a free download from the Apple 
iTunes store, as detailed below. The app is 
updated at the same time as our website 
and delivers news releases, regulatory 
announcements, presentations, reports, 
webcasts, videos, financial documents 
and the share price.
To help investors understand the scope of 
our business we have produced a series of 
corporate videos outlining our strategy, our 
performance, our future and an animated 
video on the products that we make. These 
can be viewed from the home page of our 
website (www.halma.com) and from our  
iPad investor app. Type this link into your 
browser to go to the Halma Investor  
Relations app download page on iTunes: 
http://goo.gl/4W91y
The Financial calendar is set out on 
page 180.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in London 
where they can gain a better understanding 
of the Company and meet the Directors. 
The AGM provides an opportunity for 
shareholders to ask questions to the Board 
on the matters put to the meeting, including 
the Annual Report and Accounts and the 
management of the Company. The results 
of the AGM are published on the Company’s 
website once they become available. 66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Nomination Committee
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
Over the past year, we have seen minor 
re-shaping of the Board and Committee 
membership and change in individual 
responsibilities as described below. 
In July 2015, Tony Rice succeeded Stephen 
Pettit as Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The search for a new non-executive Director, 
to fill the subsequent vacancy, was 
successfully concluded at the end of the 
calendar year and the Committee were 
delighted to recommend the appointment  
of Carole Cran to the Board. Carole will 
succeed Jane Aikman as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee after she steps down at  
our 2016 AGM.
I reported in the 2015 Committee report  
that the resignation of Neil Quinn from the 
Board provided an opportunity to consider 
the executive composition of the Board. The 
Committee has considered this over the past 
year and, at the present time, continues to 
believe that the balance of executive and 
non-executive Directors is appropriate, as 
the focus remains on building the new sector 
structure, both in terms of operations and 
talent. The Committee will keep the Board 
and Executive Board composition under 
review over the coming year.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee is appointed by the Board 
and operates under written terms of 
reference, which are available on the Group’s 
website. The primary role and responsibilities 
of the Committee is to:
• review the size, balance and composition 
(evaluating the skills, knowledge and 
experience) of the Board and its 
Committees, ensuring that they remain 
appropriate and making recommendations 
to the Board with regard to any changes;
• lead the process for Board appointments; 
• oversee the succession planning 
requirements for the Board and other 
senior executives, including the 
identification and assessment of potential 
candidates and making recommendations 
to the Board for its approval; and
• keep under review the leadership needs of 
the Group in relation to both its executive 
Directors and other senior executives, 
including any recommendations made  
by the Chief Executive for changes to  
the executive membership of the Board.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee currently comprises the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive and five 
independent non-executive Directors, 
therefore comprising a majority of non-
executive members. The Chairman acts 
as the Chairman of the Committee but  
would not chair a meeting which was  
dealing with the appointment of a successor 
to the chairmanship. The following members 
served on the Committee during the year:
• Paul Walker (Chairman)
• Andrew Williams
• Stephen Pettit (retired 23 July 2015)
• Jane Aikman
• Daniela Barone Soares
• Roy Twite
• Tony Rice
• Carole Cran (appointed 1 January 2016)
ACTIVITIES IN 2015/16
During the year, the Committee has 
undertaken the following activities:
• recommending the appointment of Tony 
Rice as Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee;
• non-executive Director succession 
planning, resulting in the appointment 
of Carole Cran;
• preparing a non-executive profile for the 
replacement of Jane Aikman and working 
with Lygon Group to initiate the search;
• review of Executive succession plans 
and talent review; 
• annual self-evaluation and review of 
Director independence in accordance 
with the terms of reference; and
• proposing the election and re-election 
of Directors at the AGM.
Allocation of time
Recruitment 33%
Succession planning 39%
Governance and reporting 12%
Independence and (re-)election of Directors 7%
Composition of the Board 9%
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE
As at the date of this Report, the tenure of  
the five non-executive Directors is spread 
across a nine-year period, as illustrated in  
the chart opposite. Any term beyond six 
years is subject to particularly rigorous  
review to ensure that the non-executive 
Director continues to be effective and that  
the Committee is not being stifled in any way.
Corporate Governance Report continued Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Non-executive Director tenure
Years 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Jane Aikman
Daniela
Barone Soares
Carole Cran
Tony Rice
Roy Twite
Jane Aikman is in her final term, having 
served nearly nine years on the Board, 
Daniela Barone Soares is in her second 
three-year term, Tony Rice and Roy Twite  
are in their first three-year terms and Carole 
Cran will be subject to her first term on being 
elected at the AGM in July 2016.
BOARD APPOINTMENT PROCESS
Prior to making a recommendation to 
the Board for the appointment of Carole 
Cran, the Committee undertook the 
following process:
• identification of skills, experience and 
knowledge that would be complimentary 
for the general role of non-executive 
Director, in addition to recent and relevant 
financial experience required for the role  
of Audit Committee Chairman;
• selection and recommendation of a global 
search firm. Lygon Group, who have no 
connection with the Company, were 
selected based on an interview process 
involving key executives and the Chairman;
• a shortlist of candidates was reviewed by 
the Committee based on candidate 
reports prepared by Lygon Group;
• interviews and meetings were arranged 
with the Chairman, Chief Executive, 
Finance Director and several members  
of the Committee and other senior 
management; and
• a full review of the candidates was 
undertaken by the Committee at its 
meeting in November and a unanimous 
recommendation made to the Board.
DIVERSITY
The Committee and the Board support 
diversity and inclusion and has developed a 
policy for use throughout our Group. Further 
details on Board diversity are set out in the 
Effectiveness section on page 64 and for the 
wider employee base, in the Sustainability 
section on pages 51 and 52. 
BOARD GENDER
Male 6
Female 3
PRIORITIES FOR 2016/17
The Committee’s priorities for 2016/17 will be:
• to recruit a non-executive Director, to fill the vacancy when Jane Aikman steps down,  
with the right skills, knowledge and experience to bring further insight and challenge 
to the executive Directors; and
• a continued focus on succession planning and talent development. 
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Paul Walker
Chairman
14 June 2016 68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate Governance Report continued
VIABILITY STATEMENT
During the year, the Board carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks 
affecting the Company, including those 
that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
The principal risks and uncertainties, 
including an analysis of the potential 
impact and mitigating actions, are set 
out on pages 30 to 33 of the 
Strategic Report. 
The Board has assessed the viability of 
the Company over a three year period, 
taking into account the Group’s current 
position and the potential impact of the 
principal risks and uncertainties. Whilst  
the Board has no reason to believe that 
the Group will not be viable over a longer 
period, it has determined that three years 
is an appropriate period. In drawing its 
conclusion, the Board has aligned the 
period of viability assessment with the 
Group’s strategic planning process (a 
three year period). The Board believes  
that this approach provides greater 
certainty over forecasting and, therefore, 
increases reliability in the modelling and 
stress testing of the Company’s viability.  
In addition, a three year horizon is typically 
the period over which we review our 
external bank facilities, and is also the 
performance period over which awards 
granted under Halma’s share-based 
incentive plan are measured.
In reviewing the Company’s viability, 
the Board has identified the following 
factors which they believe support 
their assessment:
• the Group operates in diverse but 
relatively non-cyclical markets;
• there is considerable financial capacity 
under current facilities and the ability 
to raise further funds;
• the decentralised nature of our Group 
ensures that risk is spread across our 
businesses and sectors, with limited 
exposure to any particular industry 
or market;
• there is a strong culture of local 
responsibility and accountability  
within a robust governance and  
control framework; and
• an ethical approach to business is set 
from the top and flows throughout 
our business.
In making their assessment, the Board 
carried out a comprehensive exercise of 
financial modelling and stress-tested the 
model with various scenarios based on 
the principal risks identified in the Group’s 
annual risk assessment process. In 
each scenario, the effect on the Group’s 
KPIs and borrowing covenants was 
considered, along with any mitigating 
factors. Based on this assessment, 
the Board confirms that they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company 
will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
three year period to 31 March 2019. 
Accountability
INTERNAL CONTROL STATEMENT
The Board’s responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility to the 
shareholders for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management, and 
the review of the system’s effectiveness is 
carried out with the assistance of the Audit 
Committee. Whilst not providing absolute 
assurance against material misstatements  
or loss, this system is designed to identify  
and manage those risks that could adversely 
impact the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives. The Group’s risk management 
structure and process is detailed on pages 
28 and 29. The Group’s principal risks 
and uncertainties are detailed on 
pages 30 to 33.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group and for determining the nature and 
extent of the significant risks it is willing to 
take in achieving its strategic objectives. 
The Board, advised by the Audit Committee, 
regularly reviews the process, which has 
been in place for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts. This process is in 
accordance with the Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting. The Board 
has continued to improve and embed 
controls throughout the Group and will 
continue to keep the systems under review 
to ensure that the internal control and risk 
management framework remains fit 
for purpose.
REVIEW OF INTERNAL 
CONTROL EFFECTIVENESS
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls. The 
review is principally based on reviewing 
reports from management to consider 
whether significant risks have been identified, 
evaluated, managed and controlled. 
The Group’s external Auditor, Deloitte LLP , 
has audited the financial statements and  
has reviewed the financial control systems  
to the extent considered necessary to 
support the audit report.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
CODE 2014 (THE CODE)
Throughout the year ended 2 April 2016, 
the Company has fully complied with the 
provisions as set out in the Code. The 
Group’s internal controls are summarised 
on pages 28 and 29. 
The Directors confirm that they consider 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance. The 
Group’s business model is set out on page 
12 and an explanation of the strategy and 
longer-term objectives of the Company is 
contained within the Strategic Review on 
pages 4 to 47 . 
GOING CONCERN
The Group’s business activities, together with 
the main trends and factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position, 
and the financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, 
are set out in the Strategic Report. In addition, 
note 26 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities, and its 
exposures to currency and liquidity risks.
The Group has considerable financial 
resources (including a £360m five-year 
revolving credit facility, of which £236m  
was undrawn at 2 April 2016) together with 
contracts with a diverse range of customers 
and suppliers across different geographic 
areas and industries. No one customer 
accounts for more than 2% of Group 
turnover. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully.
After conducting a formal review of the 
Group’s financial resources, the Directors  
have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
LONGER-TERM VIABILITY
In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Board has  
considered the Company’s longer 
term viability and sets out its Viability 
Statement below. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Audit Committee
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
This is the last Report that I will present  
to shareholders in my role as Chairman  
of the Audit Committee and I am proud of  
the work that the Committee has achieved  
in improving and embedding the control 
framework throughout Halma. I am working 
closely with Carole Cran, who will succeed 
me as Committee Chairman after the 2016 
Annual General Meeting, and I wish her 
success in building on the solid foundation 
that has been laid during my tenure.
During the year, the Committee continued 
to focus on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
controls and areas to improve awareness 
and compliance. The increased awareness 
of the identification and monitoring of risks 
at all levels, carried out at the Committee’s 
request, has improved the Committee’s 
oversight of risk. 
The Committee agreed the content of the 
Viability Statement following a thorough 
process of review and stress testing the 
assumptions. The Viability Statement is  
set out on page 68 above.
I hope that you find this Report helpful in 
understanding the work of the Committee 
generally and the matters that it has 
considered over the past year.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee is appointed by the  
Board and operates under written terms  
of reference, which are available on the  
Group’s website. The primary role and 
responsibilities of the Committee is to:
Financial Reporting
• review significant financial reporting 
judgements and accounting policies and 
compliance with accounting standards;
• ensure the integrity of the financial 
statements and their compliance with UK 
company law and accounting regulation;
• ensure the Annual Report and Accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable and 
recommend their approval to the Board;
• monitor announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance;
Internal Controls
• monitor the effectiveness of internal 
controls and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code;
• review the operation of the Group’s risk 
management processes and the control 
environment over financial risks;
Risk Management
• review and provide oversight, on behalf of 
the Board, of the processes by which risks 
are managed;
• review the process undertaken and stress 
testing required to approve the Group’s 
Viability Statement and Going Concern 
statement;
Fraud and Whistleblowing
• receive reports on the processes in place 
throughout the Group to prevent and 
detect fraud and to enable employees  
to raise concerns in confidence;
• receive reports on fraud attempts  
or incidents;
Internal Audit
• agree the Internal Audit work programme 
and regularly review reports arising from 
internal audits;
• monitor the resourcing and review the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function;
• continue to strengthen the Internal Audit 
function to match the growth and 
complexity of the Group; 
• monitor the status of actions resulting  
from internal audits and consider  
remedial action for overdue items;
External Audit
• manage the relationship with the  
Group’s external auditor;
• monitor and review the independence  
and performance of the external auditor 
and, at least annually, formally evaluate 
their effectiveness;
• review the policy on non-audit services 
carried out by the external auditor, taking 
account of relevant ethical guidance;
• negotiate and agree the external auditor’s 
fee; 
• lead the audit tender process at least 
every 10 years; and
• make recommendations to the Board  
for the appointment or reappointment  
of the external auditor.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee currently comprises the  
five independent non-executive Directors. 
The following members served on the 
Committee during the year:
 – Jane Aikman (Chairman)
 – Stephen Pettit (retired 23 July 2015)
 – Daniela Barone Soares
 – Roy Twite
 – Tony Rice
 – Carole Cran (appointed 1 January 2016)
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance 
Director are also in attendance at Committee 
meetings. Representatives from the external 
Auditor and the Internal Audit Manager are 
invited to join the meeting for certain agenda 
items. The Committee, and separately the 
Committee Chairman, meet with the Internal 
Audit Manager on a regular basis.
ACTIVITIES IN 2015/16
The Committee spends a significant amount 
of time reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control 
process which supports its oversight of the 
integrity of its financial reporting. Further 
detail on the areas reviewed by Committee 
throughout the year are set out in the table  
on page 70.
Allocation of time
Financial statements and business reports 43%
Risk management 11%
Internal audit 11%
External audit 28%
Other 7%
GOVERNANCE
The Committee meets at least three  
times per year and routinely meets with  
the external Auditor without the executive 
Directors present. It is chaired by Jane 
Aikman, independent non-executive Director, 
who is a chartered accountant with recent 
and relevant financial experience. The 
Finance Director works closely with the 
Committee Chairman to facilitate open 
communication and regular information flow. 70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee activities
Financial statements and reports
• reviewed the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2015 Half Year Report and  
the trading updates issued in July 2015 and February 2016. As part of these reviews 
the Committee received a report from the external Auditor on the audit of the Annual 
Report and Accounts; 
• reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts; 
• reviewed the process and stress testing undertaken to support the Group’s Viability 
and Going Concern statements;
• considered acquisition valuation and accounting methodology; 
• reviewed pension fund accounts; 
• reviewed treasury policy; 
• reviewed currency exposure and hedging policies; and 
• reviewed taxation provisions. 
Risk management
• considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process to identify, evaluate 
and mitigate risks, the Group’s changing risk profile and future risk reports; 
• devoted additional time to adequately address risk management and internal 
control in the Group; and 
• considered export controls and other compliance-related matters. 
Internal audit
• evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be undertaken by the Internal 
Audit function;
• reviewed management responses to audit reports issued during the year; 
• reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing policy and procedures; and
• reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
External auditor and non-audit work
• considered the timing and process for the external Auditor tender;
• reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit 
and non-audit work to be undertaken by the external Auditor;
• evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor; 
• agreed changes to the policy on non-audit services; and
• agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external Auditor 
for the audit of the 2 April 2016 financial statements.
Corporate Governance Report continued
Audit Manager investigates cases relating  
to financial matters (including fraud), the 
Company Secretary investigates other 
matters and monitors all open cases 
through to their conclusion.
During the year, the Committee carried  
out a review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s whistleblowing arrangements.  
A refresh of the whistleblowing service was 
carried out across the Group in May 2015.
ENGAGEMENT OF THE  
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The external Auditor is engaged to  
express an opinion on the Group and 
Company financial statements. The audit 
includes the review and testing of the data 
contained in the financial statements to the 
extent necessary for expressing an audit 
opinion on the truth and fairness of the 
financial statements.
Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor 
of the Group since 2003 and a review of the 
independence of Deloitte LLP is undertaken 
each year. At the year end, the Auditor 
formally confirmed its independence and 
that objectivity has been maintained. The 
Committee concluded that the relevant 
independence continues to be met. In 
addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor 
responsible for the Group audit is rotated 
at least every five years. A new Senior 
Statutory Auditor has been appointed 
for the financial year ended 2 April 2016. 
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee 
with relevant reports, reviews and advice 
throughout the year, as set out in their 
terms of engagement.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDERING
In accordance with UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Committee  
has primary responsibility for making  
a recommendation to the Board on the 
reappointment of the external Auditor and  
will lead the process for putting the audit 
contract out to tender at least every 10 years. 
In accordance with The Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive 
Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014 (the 2014 Order), 
Halma is required to re-tender the external 
audit contract by June 2023. As reported  
last year, it is anticipated that the external 
tender process will be completed before  
the end of December 2018. Accordingly, the 
Committee’s current intention is to conduct  
a competitive tender process in the financial 
year 2018/19. The Committee believes that  
it is in the best interests of the Company’s 
members to conduct a competitive tender 
ahead of the 2023 deadline and, due to the 
transitional arrangements, the change in 
Senior Statutory Auditor and Carole Cran 
being appointed as Committee Chairman 
from July 2016, that concluding a tender by 
December 2018 is also in the best interests  
of the Company. The Committee confirms 
that the Company was in compliance with  
the provisions of the 2014 Order during the 
financial year ended 2 April 2016. 
The Committee receives regular updates on 
changes to financial accounting standards 
and reporting requirements, regulatory and 
governance changes, the evolving landscape 
around risk, fraud and cyber security.
In its advisory capacity, the Committee 
confirmed to the Board, that based on its 
review of the Annual Report and Accounts and 
internal controls that support the disclosures, 
that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provide the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, its 
business model and strategy.
WHISTLEBLOWING
The Committee has responsibility for 
ensuring that arrangements are in place for 
employees to raise concerns or suspicions 
they may have about possible wrongdoing 
in financial reporting or other matters.  
An external organisation, Expolink, operates 
a 24 hour confidential reporting service 
for the Group, which provides employees 
with the choice of making a report via a 
multilingual telephone line or by web 
reporting. The service allows employees 
to remain anonymous (subject to local 
legislation) and also provides a case reporting 
number which ensures that there is a 
mechanism for two-way communication 
between the reporter and the Company, even 
if they have chosen to remain anonymous. 
Confidential reports from this service are 
provided to the Company Secretary for 
investigation and to report any significant 
cases to the Committee. The Internal   Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The policy states that the Group will only use 
the appointed external auditor for non-audit 
services in cases where these services do 
not conflict with the auditor’s independence.
The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP 
remains best placed to advise the Group on 
matters related to tax compliance and the 
structure of the Group. The Committee 
accepts that certain work of a non-audit 
nature is best undertaken by Deloitte, and 
appointments are made taking into account 
factors including expertise and fees.
The Committee regularly reviews the amount 
and nature of the non-audit work that Deloitte 
performs. The fee levels for non-audit 
services are subject to an annual cap equal 
to 70% of the average audit fees charged 
over a three-year period.
At each meeting, the Committee receives 
a summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, 
payable to the external Auditor.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP for 
the year ended 2 April 2016 were £957 ,000 
(2015: £803,000) and non-audit service  
fees were £290,000 (2015: £172,000). The 
principal non-audit service is tax advisory 
related. A summary of fees paid to the 
external Auditor is set out in note 6 to 
the Accounts on page 125.
The external Auditor has confirmed its 
independence as Auditor of the Company, 
in a letter addressed to the Directors. 
EXTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS
The effectiveness of the external audit 
process is assessed by the Committee, 
which meets regularly throughout the year 
with the Senior Statutory Auditor and senior 
audit managers. Key to the overall 
effectiveness of the process is the open 
approach adopted by the Group and the 
Auditor under which each party raises 
potential accounting and financial reporting 
issues as and when they arise, rather than 
limiting this exchange to the period in which 
formal audit and review engagements take 
place. This approach is supported by a 
formal annual survey process involving 
subsidiary and Group management as  
well as Committee members and attendees.
Surveys are tailored and issued to three 
distinct groups of respondents:
• Subsidiary Finance Directors, including 
Group Finance;
• Sector Chief Executives and Sector 
Finance Directors; and
• Committee members and attendees.
The survey completed by the first group is 
divided between questions focusing on audit 
quality and client service. As this group is 
involved primarily in the execution phase of 
the audit, the responses cover practical audit 
management issues as well as observations 
made on the integrity and quality of audit  
field teams. As the second and third group 
interact mainly with the senior audit team and 
the Senior Statutory Auditor, the questions 
are focused more on general audit planning 
and wider areas of the audit relationship.
In addition to assessing the effectiveness 
of the external Auditor, the Committee 
recognises that Group management has 
an important role to play in the overall 
effectiveness of the external audit process 
and the Auditor is therefore asked to  
conduct its own survey of both subsidiary 
and head office companies with which 
Deloitte interacts. This survey addresses 
items such as the timeliness, quality and 
reliability of data provided to the Auditor.
Taken together, the Committee believes  
that sufficient and appropriate information  
is obtained to form an overall judgement  
on the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. The external audit effectiveness 
process findings from last year’s review  
were incorporated into the audit processes 
for this year, to maintain the process of 
continuous improvement.
Taking into consideration the Auditor’s 
confirmation that they remain independent 
and the review of the effectiveness of the 
external audit, the Committee unanimously 
recommended to the Board that a resolution 
for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as 
the Company’s independent Auditor be 
proposed to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting in July 2016. The Board 
has accepted and endorsed this 
recommendation.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND  
INTERNAL CONTROLS
Through monitoring of the effectiveness of 
its internal controls and risk management 
processes, the Committee is able to 
maintain a good understanding of business 
performance and key areas of judgement 
and decision-making within the Group.
Details of risk management and internal 
controls are set out on pages 28 and 29. 
POLICY ON AUDITOR 
INDEPENDENCE AND SERVICES
Prohibited non-audit services
• appraisal or valuation services;
• financial information systems design 
and implementation;
• bookkeeping services;
• management functions;
• executive recruiting and resource services;
• broker-dealer services; and
• legal services.
Audit-related services not subject  
to separate tender if fees <£150,000
• audits of businesses acquired or to be 
sold and due diligence services;
• opinions/audit reports on information 
provided by the Company upon 
request from a third party;
• advice on accounting policies;
• electronic data processing audits; and
• tax services including local tax 
compliance.
Permitted non-audit services, 
subject to approval with requirement 
to tender if fees >£150,000
• due diligence services relating to 
acquisitions with fees in excess of 
£150,000;
• public reporting on investment circulars;
• liquidation services in respect of 
redundant subsidiaries or associate 
companies; and
• tax-advisory fees in excess of £150,000 
where the firm’s existing knowledge of 
the Group structure is preferred.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
The Group’s ‘Policy on Auditor Independence 
and Services provided by the External 
Auditor’ sets out restrictions on the 
categories of non-audit services which 
the external auditor is allowed to provide 
to the Group, in order to safeguard auditor 
objectivity and independence. A summary 
of the services provided by the auditor 
which are permitted and prohibited under 
the policy, is set out above.
This policy is regularly reviewed and was 
most recently reviewed and updated in 
January 2016. Following that review, the 
threshold at which a tender process is 
required (to determine whether the auditor 
is the most suitable supplier of specific audit 
related or non-audit services) was increased 
from £100,000, which was set in 2005, to 
£150,000 reflecting the current size of the 
Group. In addition, the level at which the 
Committee are notified of all non-audit 
services carried out by the external auditor 
increased from fees between £50,000 and 
£100,000, to fees between £75,000 
and £150,000.  72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES IN  
RELATION TO FINANCIAL  
REPORTING MATTERS IN 2016
During the year, the Committee considered 
significant risks and issues in relation to the 
Group’s financial statements and disclosures 
relating to:
• the assessment of the carrying value of 
goodwill due to the significance of the 
amounts recorded on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet and the judgements 
involved in assessing goodwill 
for impairment;
• the risk that acquisitions are not accounted 
for correctly in line with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
combinations’ including the recording of 
fair value adjustments and the identification 
and valuation of acquired intangible assets;
• the valuation of any contingent 
consideration arising on acquisitions 
in current and prior periods;
• the judgements involved in valuing defined 
benefit pension plans including the 
discount rate, the mortality assumption 
and the inflation rate;
• the risk around capturing the capitalised 
development costs in relation to qualifying 
products as well as the subsequent 
impairment review based on predicted 
product launch and performance; and
• ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable.
These issues were discussed with 
management at various stages during 
the year and during the preparation and 
finalisation of the financial statements.  
After reviewing the presentations and reports 
from management the Committee is satisfied 
that the financial statements appropriately 
address the critical judgements and key 
estimates, both in respect of the amounts 
reported and the disclosures made. The 
Committee is also satisfied that the significant 
assumptions used for determining the  
value of assets and liabilities have been 
appropriately scrutinised, challenged and 
are sufficiently robust. The Committee has 
discussed these issues with the Auditor 
during the audit planning process and at 
the finalisation of the year end audit and is 
satisfied that its conclusions are in line 
with those drawn by the Auditor in relation 
to these issues.
The Committee’s process for challenging 
the assumptions of management and 
addressing the risks identified includes 
the following activities:
• considering the appropriateness of  
reviews conducted of acquisition purchase 
agreements against the related accounting 
entries and fair value calculations for the 
acquired opening balances. This involved 
challenging, where required, assumptions 
and key judgements underpinning the 
valuations, and benchmarking acquisitions;
• assessing treatments of contingent 
consideration payment arrangements 
against the requirements of IFRS 3 
and IFRS 13;
• focusing on, monitoring regularly and 
constructively challenging, the 
reasonableness of the assumptions 
used in impairment calculations by 
management; challenging the 
appropriateness of judgements and 
forecasts used including discount rates, 
growth rates, the level of aggregation 
of individual cash generating units and 
methodology applied, and any other 
associated disclosures in note 1 1 to 
the Accounts;
• assessing capitalisation of development 
costs in line with the accounting policy 
and standards;
• assessing the assumptions in determining 
the pension obligations, particularly given 
market volatility and determining whether 
the key assumptions were reasonable. 
These assumptions were also 
benchmarked against other listed 
companies and variances highlighted 
for consideration; and
• considering the appropriateness and 
reasonableness of stated judgements 
and conclusions and that reporting 
was accurate.
As part of the above process the Committee 
specifically considered the following:
• the treatment and valuation of the 
contingent consideration payable in 
relation to Value Added Solutions LLC  
and Visiometrics, S.L.;
• review of the fair value of acquired 
intangible assets;
• composition of the cash generating 
units and related calculations;
Corporate Governance Report continued
• the evidence supporting the going concern 
basis of accounts preparation, the viability 
statement and the risk management and 
internal control disclosure requirements;
• the relative value of projects in 
development and completed projects 
comprising the capitalised development 
costs balance and the coverage of these 
values by expected future cash flows to 
test the assertion of management that no 
projects were at risk of impairment; and
• accounting assumptions and disclosures 
of the defined benefit pension plans.
FAIR, BALANCED AND 
UNDERSTANDABLE REPORT 
AND ACCOUNTS
One of the key governance requirements 
is for the report and accounts to be fair, 
balanced and understandable. Ensuring  
that this standard is met requires continuous 
assessment of the financial reporting issues 
affecting the Group on a year-round basis in 
addition to a number of focused exercises 
that take place during the Annual Report 
and Accounts production process.
These focused exercises can be summarised 
as follows:
• a qualitative review of disclosures and a 
review of internal consistency throughout 
the Annual Report and Accounts. This 
review assesses the Annual Report and 
Accounts against objective criteria drawn 
up for each component of the requirement 
(individual criteria that indicate ‘fairness’, 
‘balance’ and ‘understandability’ as 
well as criteria that overlap two or 
more components);
• a risk comparison review, which assesses 
the consistency of the presentation of risks 
and significant judgements throughout the 
main areas of risk disclosure in the Annual 
Report and Accounts;
• a formal review of all Board and Committee 
meeting minutes by the Company 
Secretary to ensure that all significant 
issues are appropriately reflected and given 
due prominence in narrative reporting; and
• preparation and issue to the Audit 
Committee of the key working papers  
and results for each of the significant 
issues and judgements considered by  
the Audit Committee in the period.
The Directors’ statement on a fair, balanced 
and understandable Annual Report and 
Accounts is set out on page 68.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Jane Aikman
Chairman
14 June 2016 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Remuneration Committee
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 
to present the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 2 April 2016.
Our executive remuneration framework 
operates within a culture of strong 
governance, a discipline which is reflected 
throughout the Company’s activities. Halma’s 
strategy is to build a strong competitive 
advantage in specialised safety, health and 
environmental technology markets with 
resilient growth drivers. This strategy has 
long been underpinned by the remuneration 
framework which balances a short-term 
incentive related to improvements in the 
Economic Value Added (EVA) in a financial 
year – including an element deferred for two 
years in the form of shares – with a longer-
term share incentive related to Return on 
Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) and Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and, more recently, 
Earnings per Share (EPS).
The Committee undertook a significant 
review of the remuneration policy in 2015 
leading to a new policy receiving the support 
of 98% of shareholders at our 2015 AGM. 
This was our first full policy review for 10  
years and coincided with the need to seek 
shareholder approval for a new long-term 
equity incentive plan to replace the previous 
time-expired plan. 
Having reviewed the implementation of 
the policy in its first year of operation I am 
pleased to say that no structural changes 
are considered necessary to policy or its 
implementation for the forthcoming year.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES 
IN 2015/16
The Company has delivered another year 
of strong performance against our KPIs. 
In particular revenue grew by 1 1%, adjusted 
EPS grew by 10% and the Board is proposing 
a further 7% increase in dividend per share for 
shareholders. With tight controls on capital, 
the economic value added performance 
condition generated total annual bonus 
appropriate mid-market positioning,  
the Committee has determined that Paul 
Walker’s fee should be increased to a 
mid-market level in two stages from the 
current £180,000 fee. Initially this will increase 
to £210,000 from 1 April 2016 and we 
anticipate this could be increased further 
in two years’ time, coincident with the 
next triennial policy review, subject to 
the Committee considering this to be 
appropriate in the circumstances.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING  
AT THE 2016 AGM
As we are not making any further changes 
to our remuneration policy as approved by 
shareholders at the 2015 annual general 
meeting, there is no vote to approve the 
remuneration policy this year. There will  
be the usual advisory resolution to approve 
the Annual Report on Remuneration, which 
focuses on the remuneration outcomes 
for the year under review and how the 
Remuneration Committee intends to 
implement the policy next year. 
The Committee is aware of the latest 
developments in the executive pay 
arena, particularly those from institutional 
shareholders and we monitor these closely.
My colleagues on the Remuneration 
Committee and I hope that you will 
support the resolution approving the 
Remuneration Report.
Tony Rice
Remuneration Committee Chairman
14 June 2016
Allocation of time
Governance and reporting 32%
Remuneration Framework 39%
Incentive targets 11%
Equity incentives 18%
payments to executive Directors of between 
80% and 105% of base salary. Of these 
amounts one third will be deferred for two 
years and is payable in shares.
Performance was similarly strong over the 
three-year performance period for the 
performance share awards granted in 2013, 
with averaged ROTIC of 16.2% and Total 
Shareholder Return of 77% putting Halma  
in the top quartile of its comparator group. 
Accordingly, 94.7% of the performance share 
awards is expected to vest. The Committee  
is satisfied that there has been a robust link 
between reward and performance over 
these periods.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY 
FOR 2016/17
As mentioned there are no structural  
changes proposed to the implementation  
of the policy for 2016/17 . Base salaries for 
executive Directors have been increased by 
2% to 2. 1%, in line with the average increase 
for the workforce generally. 
The Committee has determined appropriately 
stretching economic profit based targets for 
the annual bonus and has determined that 
the range of EPS and ROTIC targets for the 
performance share awards should be 
unchanged from the prior year.
The Committee is also responsible for 
determining the fee level for the Chairman 
and we have reviewed the current fee level 
against market positions in peer companies. 
Recognising the shortfall of the current fee 
level in relation to our assessment of an  74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy
This section of the report details the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders approved at the  
2015 annual general meeting. This policy formally came into effect from 23 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 AGM, and is effective  
for up to three years.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and Regulation 1 1 and Schedule 8  
of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The report also meets the 
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating  
to Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code. As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the Annual Report on 
Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration for 
each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 2 April 2016; plan interests awarded 
during the year; pension entitlements; payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office; and Directors’ shareholdings and share 
interests. All other parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Salary
A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope  
of the executive’s responsibilities which attracts and  
retains high calibre talent necessary for the delivery  
of the Group’s strategy.
Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities. Salary 
is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators of a similar  
size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to individual performance 
and contribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual 
reviews (normally with effect from 1 April). Salaries for the financial year  
under review (and the following year) are disclosed in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average 
of the wider employee population other than in exceptional circumstances. 
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, 
for example where there is a material change in the responsibility, size or 
complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the 
relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Benefits
To provide benefits that are competitive within  
the relevant market.
Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically  
comprise (but are not limited to) a company car, life insurance, permanent 
disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation and tax advice for 
international assignments.
Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the 
role and circumstances of each individual executive Director. The maximum 
value will equate to the reasonable market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits (as set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration) would increase materially over the period for which 
this policy applies.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on 
recruitment, etc.) or in circumstances where factors outside the Company’s 
control have changed materially (e.g. market increases in insurance costs). 
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the 
relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Pension
To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the 
cash allowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity 
for executives to save for their retirement.
Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution 
pension plan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement. 
Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be made 
to some individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and length of service. 
Cash supplements may be reduced to reflect the additional employer social 
costs thereon.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, 
the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to taxes and 
social charges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group defined benefit 
pension plan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable salary 
which is capped at £155,528 (2014/15: £153,684). The maximum contribution 
rate for executives joining prior to 2014/15 was 27 .5%.
Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the executive 
Director is a former active member of the defined benefit pension plan. 
Defined Contribution members whose contributions exceed the local tax 
allowance are paid the excess contributions, on the capped pensionable 
salary, as a cash supplement, net of employer social costs.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share 
component subject to IRS caps. 
Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum 
pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, up to a 
CPI-indexed cap; £155,528 for 2015/16 and 2016/17 .
Not applicable Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Salary
A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope  
of the executive’s responsibilities which attracts and  
retains high calibre talent necessary for the delivery  
of the Group’s strategy.
Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities. Salary 
is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators of a similar  
size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to individual performance 
and contribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual 
reviews (normally with effect from 1 April). Salaries for the financial year  
under review (and the following year) are disclosed in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average 
of the wider employee population other than in exceptional circumstances. 
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, 
for example where there is a material change in the responsibility, size or 
complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the 
relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Benefits
To provide benefits that are competitive within  
the relevant market.
Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically  
comprise (but are not limited to) a company car, life insurance, permanent 
disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation and tax advice for 
international assignments.
Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the 
role and circumstances of each individual executive Director. The maximum 
value will equate to the reasonable market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits (as set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration) would increase materially over the period for which 
this policy applies.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on 
recruitment, etc.) or in circumstances where factors outside the Company’s 
control have changed materially (e.g. market increases in insurance costs). 
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the 
relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Pension
To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the 
cash allowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity 
for executives to save for their retirement.
Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution 
pension plan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement. 
Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be made 
to some individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and length of service. 
Cash supplements may be reduced to reflect the additional employer social 
costs thereon.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, 
the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to taxes and 
social charges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group defined benefit 
pension plan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable salary 
which is capped at £155,528 (2014/15: £153,684). The maximum contribution 
rate for executives joining prior to 2014/15 was 27 .5%.
Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the executive 
Director is a former active member of the defined benefit pension plan. 
Defined Contribution members whose contributions exceed the local tax 
allowance are paid the excess contributions, on the capped pensionable 
salary, as a cash supplement, net of employer social costs.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share 
component subject to IRS caps. 
Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum 
pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, up to a 
CPI-indexed cap; £155,528 for 2015/16 and 2016/17 .
Not applicable
REMUNERATION POLICY
The remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives needed to 
manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder  
value. The policy also seeks to reward achievement of stretching performance targets without driving unacceptable behaviours or  
encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration during the 2014/15 year coincident with the expiry of the life of the 2005 
Performance Share Plan. It noted that there were aspects of the previous policy that work well and were therefore retained. However, it also 
noted that both the Company and market practice have moved on in the 10 years since the last formal review. Accordingly, it introduced 
changes to the policy to reinforce the link between executive remuneration and the Company’s long-term performance enhancing the 
executives’ alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders. 
There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors, which are summarised in the table below. 76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy 
continued
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Annual Incentive 
To incentivise and focus management on the achievement  
of an objective annual target which is set to support the 
short- to medium-term strategy of the Group.
The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year 
to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings remain 
appropriately aligned with the Group’s strategy and are sufficiently challenging.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with 
reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual budget 
agreed by the Board. At the end of the year, the Committee determines the 
extent to which these targets have been achieved.
Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that 
is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject to continued service.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents 
are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group 
and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup 
overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either 
through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to 
repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive  
and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to exercise 
discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the 
scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance 
and to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of  
financial performance targets. The primary measure  
used to determine bonus outcomes is EVA, although the  
Committee may, at its discretion and from time to time, 
supplement EVA with additional financial measures that 
reflect Halma’s strategic priorities for the year, provided  
any such additional measure accounts for no more than  
30% of the overall bonus opportunity.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable 
for the financial year under review are provided in the  
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Executive Share Plan (ESP)
To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to 
shareholders over a three-year period rewarding them for 
sustained performance against challenging long-term targets; 
to retain key individuals and align interests with shareholders, 
reflecting the sustainability of the business model over the 
long term and the creation of shareholder value.
Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares or a 
cash equivalent where required by regulations as determined by the Committee; 
awards vest after a period of at least three years based on Group performance.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents 
are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period, and only on those 
shares which vest.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup 
overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either 
through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to 
repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of an 
external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, exceed 
this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% of salary.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the 
maximum award.
Vesting of performance share awards is subject to continued 
employment and the Company’s performance over a 
three-year performance period. To the extent performance 
conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
The performance measures will be Earnings per Share (EPS) 
and Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), and subject to 
a minimum weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards 
made in the financial year under review are provided in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based 
employees using HMRC-approved schemes.
The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement. It entitles all UK-based 
employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially tax-advantageous manner.
Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time to time. Not applicable.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience 
and knowledge to contribute to the Board.
Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may comprise 
a base fee, committee chairmanship fee and Senior Independent Director fee.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee.
Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset triennially. 
Increases are effective from 1 April.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and fees to 
NEDs are determined by the Board. The fees are calculated by reference 
to market levels and take account of the time commitment and the 
responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director 
and for being the chairman of a Board committee, as appropriate.
Fees are paid in cash.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the 
year under review (and for the following year) are disclosed 
in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Notes to the Policy Table
Payments from Existing Awards
The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation  
of the Remuneration Policy on 23 July 2015. Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures
The performance measures used in Halma’s executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Group’s strategy and align executive 
interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed (definition is provided on page 84) reinforces the Group’s business objective to double  
every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth. Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success  
in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years. Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the 
benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition. Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in  
the calculation of EVA.
In the ESP , EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC 
reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Annual Incentive 
To incentivise and focus management on the achievement  
of an objective annual target which is set to support the 
short- to medium-term strategy of the Group.
The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year 
to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings remain 
appropriately aligned with the Group’s strategy and are sufficiently challenging.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with 
reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual budget 
agreed by the Board. At the end of the year, the Committee determines the 
extent to which these targets have been achieved.
Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that 
is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject to continued service.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents 
are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group 
and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup 
overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either 
through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to 
repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive  
and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to exercise 
discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the 
scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance 
and to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of  
financial performance targets. The primary measure  
used to determine bonus outcomes is EVA, although the  
Committee may, at its discretion and from time to time, 
supplement EVA with additional financial measures that 
reflect Halma’s strategic priorities for the year, provided  
any such additional measure accounts for no more than  
30% of the overall bonus opportunity.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable 
for the financial year under review are provided in the  
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Executive Share Plan (ESP)
To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to 
shareholders over a three-year period rewarding them for 
sustained performance against challenging long-term targets; 
to retain key individuals and align interests with shareholders, 
reflecting the sustainability of the business model over the 
long term and the creation of shareholder value.
Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares or a 
cash equivalent where required by regulations as determined by the Committee; 
awards vest after a period of at least three years based on Group performance.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents 
are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period, and only on those 
shares which vest.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup 
overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either 
through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to 
repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of an 
external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, exceed 
this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% of salary.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the 
maximum award.
Vesting of performance share awards is subject to continued 
employment and the Company’s performance over a 
three-year performance period. To the extent performance 
conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
The performance measures will be Earnings per Share (EPS) 
and Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), and subject to 
a minimum weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards 
made in the financial year under review are provided in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based 
employees using HMRC-approved schemes.
The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement. It entitles all UK-based 
employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially tax-advantageous manner.
Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time to time. Not applicable.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience 
and knowledge to contribute to the Board.
Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may comprise 
a base fee, committee chairmanship fee and Senior Independent Director fee.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee.
Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset triennially. 
Increases are effective from 1 April.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and fees to 
NEDs are determined by the Board. The fees are calculated by reference 
to market levels and take account of the time commitment and the 
responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director 
and for being the chairman of a Board committee, as appropriate.
Fees are paid in cash.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the 
year under review (and for the following year) are disclosed 
in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Notes to the Policy Table
Payments from Existing Awards
The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation  
of the Remuneration Policy on 23 July 2015. Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures
The performance measures used in Halma’s executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Group’s strategy and align executive 
interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed (definition is provided on page 84) reinforces the Group’s business objective to double  
every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth. Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success  
in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years. Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the 
benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition. Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in  
the calculation of EVA.
In the ESP , EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC 
reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates.  
Targets are calibrated taking into account a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Group’s strategic plan.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees
Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels and the  
Company’s ability to pay. The Committee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid an upward ratchet. 
Executive Board members and other senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme on a similar basis as the executive Directors. A number of senior executives also  
receive ESP awards. Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level. All UK employees are eligible to participate in the  
SIP on the same terms. 
Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local market conditions, and are determined to be appropriately competitive.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration
The Committee’s policy is to set pay for new executive Directors and Executive Board members within the existing remuneration policy in order to provide internal consistency.  
The Committee aims to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre. 78 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy 
continued
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach
Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of 
the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a 
period of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individual’s development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and 
any necessary expenses relating to an executive’s relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Company’s Defined Contribution pension plan, receive a cash 
supplement or local equivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated 
to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
ESP New appointees will be granted performance awards under the ESP on the same terms as other executives, as described 
in the policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set out in the policy table, in exceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it appropriate 
to grant an incentive award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual or to replace incentive arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In making such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as 
closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the payment 
mechanism, expected value and the remaining vesting period of these awards. 
INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy for external 
appointees, as detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company 
will continue to honour those commitments. Incentive opportunities for below-Board level employees are generally no higher than for executive 
Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure they are appropriate. 
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to 
progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary (2014/15: 100%). 
Until such time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any 
vested performance share award or deferred bonus share award. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICIES
It is the Company’s policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one year’s notice. 
The details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below. Contracts will be available for inspection at the AGM and throughout 
the year at the Company’s registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period
Andrew Williams April 2003 One year
Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year
Adam Meyers July 2008 One year
The Company’s policy is to limit payments on cessation to pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event that the employment of 
an executive Director is terminated, any amount payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the 
Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans. No predetermined amount is provided for in the Directors’ contracts. 
The UK executive Director contracts enable the Company to pay up to one year’s salary in lieu of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any 
other benefits, and, under the rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the individual’s leaving status for share plan vesting purposes. 
If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual. Adam Meyers’ service contract permits him to remain an 
employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related to employment. The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to 
the UK. Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are 
fair to both shareholders and participants. The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and share plans are treated 
in specific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan and the extent to which the Committee has discretion:
Reason for leaving Timing of payment/vesting Calculation of payment/vesting
Annual 
bonus
Death, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, or any other reasons the 
Committee may determine
After the end of the financial 
year, although the Committee 
has discretion to accelerate 
(e.g. in relation to death)
Performance against targets will be 
assessed at the end of the year in the normal 
way and any resulting bonus normally will be 
pro-rated for time served during the year
All other reasons No bonus is payable –
Deferred 
bonus
Death, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, or any other reasons the 
Committee may determine
On the second anniversary 
of the award
Awards vest in full
All other reasons Awards lapse –
Share 
Plans
Injury or disability, redundancy, or  
any other reason the Committee may, 
at its discretion, determine
On the third anniversary 
of the award
Awards will normally be pro-rated for time 
to the date of cessation of employment 
and performance metrics assessed as  
at the third anniversary
Death Immediately (unless otherwise 
determined by the Committee 
at its discretion)
Any outstanding awards normally will 
be pro-rated for time and performance  
up to the point of death
All other reasons Awards lapse – 80 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy 
continued
PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between different 
elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: ‘Fixed’, ‘On-target’ and ‘Maximum’. 
Potential reward opportunities are based on Halma’s remuneration policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2016. In the case of the 
Chief Executive, Finance Director and other executive Directors this assumes a performance share award level of 200%, 175% and  
150% of salary respectively (which is the basis on which the policy will be applied in 2016/17). The projected values exclude the impact  
of any share price movements and dividend equivalents. 
The ‘Fixed’ scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
The ‘On-target’ scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay out of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus 
and vesting of 50% of a single year’s award under the ESP .
The ‘Maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum payout of annual bonus and ESP awards. 
Andrew Williams, Chief Executive
Percentages/amounts £000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
803 100%
1,965 28% 31% 41%
2,945 42% 31% 27%
Kevin Thompson, Finance Director
Percentages/amounts £000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
497 100%
1,176 29% 29% 42%
1,741 38% 33% 29%
Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive – Medical
Percentages/amounts $000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
520 100%
1,241 29% 29% 42%
1,841 39% 33% 28%
Fixed Annual incentive ESP Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors (NEDs) have a specific three-year term of engagement, subject to annual re-election 
at the AGM, which may be renewed for up to two further three-year terms if both the Director and the Board agree. The remuneration of the 
Chairman and the NEDs is determined by the Committee and the Board in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders.
The contract in respect of the Chairman’s services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months’ notice. 
The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of their services, which can be terminated, by either party, by giving not less 
than three months’ notice. Contracts are available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Company’s registered office.
Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are included below. 
Non-executive Director Date of appointment Notice period
Paul Walker April 2013 6 months
Jane Aikman* August 2007 3 months
Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months
Roy Twite July 2014 3 months
Tony Rice August 2014 3 months
Carole Cran January 2016 3 months
* Jane Aikman has given notice of her intention to retire from the Board effective at the close of the 2016 AGM. As such, she is not seeking re-election to the Board. 
NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Company’s pension plan or participate in any incentive 
schemes. Any reasonable expenses that they incur in performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company. 
Paul Walker’s personal assistant is an employee of the Company. 
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on pages 76 and 77 .
NED RECRUITMENT
In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on pages 76 and 77 . 
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP 
The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for  
executive Directors. However, the Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and ‘best practice’ guidelines set  
by shareholder representative bodies. As part of their consideration of the new remuneration policy, the Committee consulted widely  
with the Company’s major institutional shareholders and their representative bodies. The Committee always welcomes feedback from  
shareholders on the Company’s remuneration policy. Detail on the votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on  
Directors’ Remuneration at the previous annual general meeting is provided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS
The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed 
companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge 
to Halma’s benefit.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman. Approval will only be given  
where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Group’s activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial  
to the development of the individual. Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these are retained by the executive Director.
Andrew Williams is a non-executive director of Capita plc. Fees paid to him during the period to 2 April 2016 were £64,000 (2015: £16,000). 82 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report
The following section provides details of how Halma’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ending 2 April 2016,  
and how it will be implemented in 2016/17 .
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The primary responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to:
• make recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration based on proposals 
formulated by the CEO;
• determine and agree with the Board the policy and framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, CEO, other executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary and members of the Executive Board;
• approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance-related pay plans operated by the Company and agree the total annual 
payments made under such plans;
• review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders, and determine, each year, whether awards will 
be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior executives and the 
performance targets to be set; and
• determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each executive Director and other senior executives.
The Committee also monitors and considers, with the CEO, the framework of remuneration for subsidiary CEOs and directors and ensures 
a consistent approach is applied.
The full terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website.
As at 2 April 2016, the Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors:
• Tony Rice (Chairman)
• Paul Walker 
• Jane Aikman 
• Daniela Barone Soares 
• Roy Twite 
• Carole Cran (from 1 January 2016)
Stephen Pettit was a member and chairman of the Committee during part of the year, until his retirement from the Board at the July 2015 
annual general meeting.
All members of the Committee are considered independent within the definition set out in the Code. None of the Committee has any personal 
financial interest in Halma (other than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships or day-to-day involvement in 
running the business.
During the year the Committee met formally four times. Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 63. In addition, Tony Rice met with Stephen Pettit and Carol Chesney as part of the induction process he 
underwent when assuming chairmanship of the Committee.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings. The CEO and Company Secretary attend the Committee’s 
meetings by invitation, but are not present when their own remuneration is discussed. The Committee also takes independent professional 
advice as required.
EXTERNAL ADVISERS
New Bridge Street (NBS) acted as the independent remuneration adviser to the Committee during the year, having been appointed by the 
Committee in October 2014; prior to that date, Kepler Associates advised the Committee. NBS attends Committee meetings, as appropriate, 
and provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular market and best practice 
updates. NBS reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants of 
UK-listed companies (which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). NBS provides no other services to the Company,  
and is therefore considered independent. NBS’s fees for the year were £72,000 (2015: £47 ,000).
SHAREHOLDER VOTE AT 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The following table shows the results of the voting at the 23 July 2015 annual general meeting.
For Against Total Withheld
Remuneration Policy
Number of votes cast 268,394,004 5,594,080 273,988,084 4,260,712
% of votes cast 98.0% 2.0% 100%
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total number of votes 265,588,464 3,357,657 268,946,121 9,300,675
% of votes cast 98.7% 1.3% 100% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR DIRECTORS
The tables below set out the single figure of total remuneration received by Directors for the year to 2 April 2016 and the prior year. 
2016
Executive Directors
Salary 
£000
Benefits
1
£000
Pension
2
£000
Annual
 bonus
3
£000
PSP
4
£000
SOS/SIP
5
£000
Total
remuneration
£000
Andrew Williams 600 31 156 480 923 4 2,194
Kevin Thompson 375 14 218 307 572 4 1,489
Adam Meyers
6
311 15 12 326 505 – 1,169
Non-executive Directors
Paul Walker 180 – – – – – 180
Jane Aikman 56 – – – – – 56
Daniela Barone Soares 48 – – – – – 48
Roy Twite
7
48 – – – – – 48
Tony Rice
7
56 – – – – – 56
Carole Cran
7
12 – – – – – 12
Past Directors
Stephen Pettit
8
20 – – – – – 20
Neil Quinn
8
30 2 – – – – 32
5,304
2015
Executive Directors
Salary
£000
Benefits
1
£000
Pension
2
£000
Annual
 bonus
3
£000
PSP
4
£000
SOS/SIP
5
£000
Total
remuneration
£000
Andrew Williams 515 27 134 271 879 180 2,006
Kevin Thompson 330 14 186 173 609 256 1,568
Adam Meyers
6
279 9 12 270 512 346 1,428
Non-executive Directors
Paul Walker 180 – – – – – 180
Jane Aikman 56 – – – – – 56
Daniela Barone Soares 48 – – – – – 48
Roy Twite
7
33 – – – – – 33
Tony Rice
7
31 – – – – – 31
Past Directors
Stephen Pettit
8
59 – – – – – 59
Neil Quinn
8
250 14 – 250 434 225 1,173
6,615
1
 Benefits: company car and private medical insurance.
2
 Pension: value based on increase in accrued pensions (net of inflation) multiplied by a factor of 20, and/or the Company’s pension contribution during the year. Neil Quinn had 
reached the Normal Retirement Date and therefore no future pension contribution or cash supplement was payable.
3
 Annual bonus: payment for performance during the year; from 2016, two thirds is payable in cash and one third is payable in shares which vest two years from award. Table shows 
total bonus including amounts to be deferred.
4
 PSP: the value of awards vesting on performance during the years ending 2 April 2016 (estimated) and 28 March 2015 (actual). 
5
 SOS: gains on awards vesting in the period; SIP: valued based on the face value of shares at grant.
6
 Remunerated in US dollars and translated at the average exchange rate for the year (2016: US$1.51; 2015: US$1.61).
7
 Roy Twite was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2014; Tony Rice on 8 August 2014; and Carole Cran on 1 January 2016.
8
 Neil Quinn retired from the Board on 14 May 2015 and remained employed until 31 March 2016; the table shows his salary and benefits to 14 May 2015 only; Stephen Pettit retired 
from the Board effective 23 July 2015. 84 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration 
Report continued
OTHER PAYMENTS
No payments were made to former Directors after their retirement, nor were any payments made on cessation during the year under review. 
Neil Quinn was employed from the date he retired from the Board (14 May 2015) through 31 March 2016 and was paid salary of £220,000 for 
this period. He received benefits of £13,000 and vested share awards of £398,000. Mr Quinn’s unvested share awards will vest at the usual 
vesting dates subject to the performance targets being met and pro-rated for employment as a proportion of the total vesting period.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2016
Annual bonus in respect of 2016
In 2016, the maximum bonus opportunity for executive Directors was 125% to 150% of salary, solely linked to performance as measured by 
an Economic Value Added (EVA) calculation. 
For the CEO and FD (150% maximum), bonuses are calculated based on Group profit exceeding a target calculated from the profits for the 
three preceding financial years after charging cost of capital, including the cost of acquisitions. As the EVA for each year is utilised for a further 
three years in the comparator calculations, executives must consider the medium-term interests of the Group otherwise there is the potential 
for an adverse impact on their capacity to earn a bonus.
EVA calculation:
Profit for 
each year
Minus
A charge on cost of 
acquisitions
Minus
A charge on 
working capital
Plus/minus
Unrealised profit  
in inventory
Minus
The resultant bonus 
itself (to make it 
self-financing)
Equals
The EVA for  
each year
In the case of a Sector CEO (125% maximum), a bonus is earned if the profit of the sector for which they are responsible exceeds a target 
calculated from the profits of the three preceding financial years. The profits calculated for this purpose regard each sector as a stand-alone 
group of companies charging it with the cost of capital it utilises including the cost of acquisitions.
Bonuses for 2016 are based on the sectoral allocation that existed throughout 2016. Transitional provisions exist for restructuring to 
ensure Sector CEOs remain appropriately incentivised. Subsidiary executives participate in bonus arrangements similar to those established 
for senior executives.
Further details of the bonuses payable (cash and deferred share awards) and performance against targets are provided in the tables below.
Executive Director
EVA
threshold
000
EVA
actual
000
Overall
bonus
outcome
(% of salary)
EVA
maximum
000
Andrew Williams £154,130 £169,656 80% £178,768
Kevin Thompson £154,130 £169,656 82% £178,768
Adam Meyers $70,177 $81,257 105% $82,752
No discretion was applied by the Committee in determining the annual bonus outcome calculation for 2016. The EVA maximum column 
represents the EVA performance at which the maximum bonus is payable for each individual.
Performance Share Plan (PSP): 2013 Awards (vesting during the year to 1 April 2017)
In August 2013, the executive Directors received awards of performance shares under the PSP . The performance targets for the 2013 awards 
are illustrated below and the vesting criteria are 50% TSR-related and 50% ROTIC-related.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2012/13 to 2014/15
Percentage of award which vests
TSR (percentile)
<50% 50% ≥75%
ROTIC (post-tax)
≤ 9.5% 0% 16.7% 50.0%
12.0% 16.7% 33.3% 66.7%
14.5% 33.3% 50.0% 83.3%
17.0% 50% 66.7% 100% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The three-year period over which these two independent performance metrics is measured ends on 1 August 2016. ROTIC is 16.20%  
(the average ROTIC for financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016) and TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding financial companies was 77th 
percentile through year end, which results in vesting of 94.69% of the maximum award. The vesting estimate included in the single figure  
of Total Remuneration for Directors for 2016 is detailed in the table below: 
Executive Director
Interest 
held
Face value
 at grant
 £000
Vesting
%
Interest 
vesting
Three-
month 
average
 price at
year end
Vesting
value
£000
Andrew Williams 114,646 639
94.69%
108,558
850.12p
923
Kevin Thompson 71,041 396 67,269 572
Adam Meyers 62,767 350 59,434 505
Neil Quinn (former Director) 49,129 274 46,521 395
Vested awards are satisfied in shares with sufficient shares being sold to meet tax and social costs owing, at the recipient’s direction,  
and the net balance of shares transferred to the individual. Awards lapse if they do not vest on the third anniversary of their award.
Executive Share Plan: Awards (granted during the year to 2 April 2016)
On 31 July 2015, the executive Directors were granted performance share awards under the ESP . 
Executive Director
Awards 
made during 
the year
Five-day 
average 
market price 
at date of 
award
Face value 
at date of 
award
Face value 
at date of 
award (% of 
salary)
Maximum 
award 
permitted
Andrew Williams 160,547
745.2p
£1,196,396 199.4% 200%
Kevin Thompson 87,580 £652,646 174.0% 175%
Adam Meyers 58,761 £437,887 150.0% 150%
The percentages above are relative to base salaries. UK executive Directors had part of their award delivered by the Share Incentive Plan.
The three-year performance period over which ROTIC and EPS performance will be measured is April 2015 to March 2018. The ROTIC 
element will be based on the average ROTIC for 2016, 2017 and 2018. The EPS element will be based on EPS growth from April 2015  
to March 2018. The award is eligible to vest in its entirety on the third anniversary of the date of grant (31 July 2018), subject to 50% on 
ROTIC performance and 50% on EPS performance. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR TO 1 APRIL 2017
Salary
The Committee approved the following salary increases with effect from 1 April 2016. By way of comparison, the average salary increase 
across the sectors for 2017 was between 2% and 4%.
Executive Director
Salary from
1 April 2016 
Salary from
1 April 2015 % change
Andrew Williams £612,000 £600,000 2.0%
Kevin Thompson £383,000 £375,000 2.1%
Adam Meyers $480,000 $470,000 2.1%
Pension and benefits
No change to the executive Directors’ current pension and benefits arrangements is planned for 2017 .
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2017 will remain at 150% of salary for the Group CEO and FD and 125% of salary for other 
executive Directors with one third of the bonus earned being payable in shares which are deferred for two years.
Bonuses will continue to be based on EVA performance against a weighted average target of EVA for the past three years for an executive’s 
sector, in the case of a Sector CEO, or the Group, in the case of the Group CEO and FD. 
Bonus payments will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions during a period of three years from the date of payment. 86 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration 
Report continued
ESP
Under the ESP , performance share awards and deferred bonus awards will be made in July 2016. The number of shares over which awards 
will be made is determined by the share price leading up to the award.
The value of each performance share award, relative to salary has been fixed as follows:
Executive Director
Salary for 
2016/17 
Performance 
share award
Value of  
award
Andrew Williams £612,000 200% £1,224,000
Kevin Thompson £383,000 175% £670,250
Adam Meyers $480,000 150% $720,000
The performance share awards to be granted in July 2016 will be subject to an earnings per share performance target for 50% of the award 
and a ROTIC target for 50% of the award measured over the three financial years 2017 , 2018 and 2019. The performance targets are set 
out below:
Performance targets for 2016 and 2017 PSP awards
ROTIC* (post tax) % of award vesting**
<11.0% 0%
11.0% 12.5%
17.0% or more 50%
* Average ROTIC over the performance period.
** There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting. 
EPS* % of award vesting**
<5% 0%
5% 12.5%
12% or more 50%
* Adjusted earnings per share growth over the three-year performance period.
** There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting.
The deferred bonus awards are derived as one third of the bonus earned for the 2016 year. The number of shares over which awards will be 
made is determined by the share price leading up to the award, but the value of each award, relative to the bonus has been fixed as follows:
Executive Director
Bonus for 
2016 Cash-settled
Value of 
2016 
deferred 
bonus award
Andrew Williams £480,000 £320,000 £160,000
Kevin Thompson £307,000 £205,000 £102,000
Adam Meyers $492,000 $328,000 $164,000
Awards vest in full on their second anniversary.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
The Chairman’s and the NEDs’ fees, as detailed below, were increased by the Board in April 2016. Fees are subject to an annual review each 
April, but resetting is normally expected to be triennial. The next resetting is anticipated to be in 2018 to align with the executive review.
Fees
Fees from
1 April 2016
Fees from
1 April 2015
Chairman £210,000 £180,000
Base fee £52,000 £48,000
Senior Independent Director £7,500 £5,000
Audit Committee Chairman £10,000 £7,500
Remuneration Committee Chairman £8,000 £7,500
Committee Member £nil £nil Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION
The table below shows the percentage change in the CEO’s remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change 
in remuneration for other employees. To provide a meaningful comparison, the analysis includes only salaried management employees and 
is based on a consistent set of employees.
2016 2015
CEO 
% change
Other 
employees 
% change
CEO
£000
CEO
£000
Salary 600 515 16.5% 6.8%
Taxable benefits 31 27 14.8% –%
Annual bonus 480 271 77.6% 20.3%
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows the percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share 
buybacks) from the financial year ended 28 March 2015 to the financial year ended 2 April 2016.
2016
£m
2015
£m % change
Distribution to shareholders 48.5 45.3 7. 1%
Employee remuneration (gross) 225.6 199.8 12.9%
Employee remuneration (pro-rated) 225.6 210.1 7.4%
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 2 April 2016 of 7 .83p per share (2015: 7 .31p).
Pro-rated employee remuneration represents a restatement of the prior year employee remuneration for the current year number of employees.
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
The seven-year graph below shows the Company’s TSR performance over the seven years to 2 April 2016 as compared to the FTSE 250 
and the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment indices. Over the period indicated, the Company’s TSR was 694% compared to 321% 
for the FTSE 250 and 521% for the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment Index.
The FTSE 250 has been selected as a broad market comparator, and the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment index has been selected 
because the Company believes that the constituent companies of this index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected 
by similar commercial and economic factors to Halma. The table below the chart details the CEO’s single figure remuneration and actual 
variable pay outcomes over the same period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (SEVEN YEARS)
Mar-2013 Mar-2014 Mar-2015 Mar-2016 Mar-2011 Mar-2012 Mar-2010 Mar-2009
0%
100%
200%
300%
400%
500%
600%
700%
800%
■ Halma ■ FTSE 250 ■ FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
CEO single figure remuneration (£000) £1,472 £1,999 £1,715 £1,958 £1,543 £2,006 £2,194
Annual bonus outcome (% of maximum) 19% 100% 40% 48% 37% 53% 53%
PSP vesting outcome (% of maximum) 96% 100% 100% 98% 74% 78% 95% 88 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration 
Report continued
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN HALMA SHARES
The interests of the Directors in office at 2 April 2016 (and their connected family members) in the ordinary shares of the Company at the 
following dates were as follows:
Shares  
2 April 2016
Shares  
28 March 
2015
Paul Walker 30,000 30,000
Andrew Williams 551,626 541,130
Kevin Thompson 377,608 369,112
Jane Aikman 2,000 2,000
Adam Meyers 328,480 318,480
Daniela Barone Soares 1,319 1,319
Roy Twite 2,000 2,000
Tony Rice 7,665 7,665
Carole Cran – –
The table above includes Share Incentive Plan awards held in trust (see table below for details).
The executive Directors each meet the new guideline for 2016 of holding Company shares to the value of at least two times salary (2015  
and prior: one times salary). Carole Cran held no interest in the Company’s shares upon her appointment. There are no other non-beneficial 
interests of Directors. There were no changes in Directors’ interests from 2 April 2016 to 14 June 2016.
Details of Directors’ interests in shares and options under Halma’s long-term incentives are set out in the sections below.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN HALMA SHARE PLANS
Details of Directors’ outstanding performance shares under the ESP and PSP and free shares under the SIP are outlined in the tables below.
Date of grant
As at  
28 March 
2015
Granted/
(vested) in
the year
Five-day 
average share 
price on grant 
(p)
As at  
2 April 2016
Executive and Performance Share Plans
Andrew Williams 8 Aug 12 141,658 (110,988) 403.70 –
6 Aug 13 114,646 557.60 114,646
12 Aug 14 117,748 569.90 117,748
31 July 15 160,547 745.20 160,547
Kevin Thompson 8 Aug 12 98,066 (76,834) 403.70 –
6 Aug 13 71,041 557.60 71,041
12 Aug 14 77,829 569.90 77,829
31 July 15 87,580 745.20 87,580
Adam Meyers 8 Aug 12 82,408 (64,566) 403.70 –
6 Aug 13 62,767 557.60 62,767
12 Aug 14 62,821 569.90 62,821
31 July 15 58,761 745.20 58,761
The performance conditions attached to the 2012, 2013 and 2014 awards are outlined on page 84 and those attaching to the 2015 award are 
on page 85. As at year end, the vesting expectations for grants made in 2013 is 94.7%; for grants made 2014, 92.2%, and for grants made 
in 2015, 75.3%. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Date of grant
As at 
28 March 
2015
Granted/
(withdrawn) 
 in the year
Share price 
on award (p)
As at 
2 April 2016
Share Incentive Plan
Andrew Williams 1 Oct 10 857 319.60 857
1 Oct 11 921 315.60 921
1 Oct 12 695 431.10 695
1 Oct 13 528 567.50 528
1 Oct 14 601 598.50 601
1 Oct 15 496 724.50 496
Kevin Thompson 1 Oct 10 882 319.60 882
1 Oct 11 949 315.60 949
1 Oct 12 695 431.10 695
1 Oct 13 528 567.50 528
1 Oct 14 601 598.50 601
1 Oct 15 496 724.50 496
The SIP shares are held in an external trust and become the employee’s absolutely after three years. There are tax benefits for retaining 
the shares in the trust for at least five years. Adam Meyers does not participate in the SIP as he is not UK based.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ PENSIONS
As noted below, two UK executive Directors are deferred members of the Halma Group Pension Plan (Plan). Their benefit is a funded final 
salary occupational pension from a plan registered with HMRC providing a maximum pension of two thirds of final pensionable salary after 
25 or more years’ service at normal pension age (60). Up to 5 April 2006, final pensionable salary was the greatest salary of the last three 
complete tax years immediately before retirement or leaving service. From 6 April 201 1, final pensionable salary was capped at £139, 185 
and is increased annually thereafter by CPI (currently £155,528).
Bonuses and other fluctuating emoluments and benefits-in-kind are not pensionable nor subject to any pension supplement. The Plan also 
provides pensions in the event of early retirement through ill-health and dependants’ pensions of one-half of the member’s prospective pension. 
Where an executive has a form of pension protection, life cover is provided by a separate trust.
Early retirement pensions, currently possible from age 55 with the consent of the Company and the trustees of the Plan, are subject to actuarial 
reduction. Pensions in payment increase by 3% per annum for service up to 5 April 1997 , by price inflation (subject to a maximum of 5%) 
through to 31 March 2007 and 3% thereafter.
UK executive Directors receive pension supplements to compensate them for the fact that their pension accrual entitlement under the Halma 
Group Pension Plan is limited by the pensionable salary cap introduced from 6 April 2006 or the Lifetime Allowance. The Company introduced 
a pensionable salary cap in order to address changes affecting the Plan made in the Pension Act 2006. 
The Company closed the DB section to future accrual with effect from 1 December 2014. The Company obtains external advice regarding 
the changes to the Plan and executive pension arrangements and provides educational seminars on the impact of pension legislation 
changes (annual and lifetime allowances) on individuals. Otherwise, executive Directors are responsible for obtaining advice specific 
to their circumstances. 90 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Prior to drawing his pension, to the extent that an executive’s current salary exceeds the Plan salary cap, the Company compensates him at 
an annual rate of 26% of the excess. In April 2006, Kevin Thompson chose to cease future service accrual in the Plan in return for the pension 
supplement on his full salary. In April 2014, Andrew Williams chose to cease future service accrual in the Plan in return for the pension 
supplement on his full salary. This change is, broadly, cost neutral.
Two Directors accrued benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plan during the year as follows.
Executive Director
Age at
2 April 2016
Years of 
pensionable
service at
2 April 2016
Increase in
accrued
benefits
£000
Increase in
accrued benefits 
net of inflation
£000
Accrued benefits 
at 2 April 2016
 £000
Andrew Williams 48 20 – – 61
Kevin Thompson 56 18 6 6 124
The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60 based on service to the end of the year.
Executive Director
Transfer value at 
28 March 2015
 £000
Transfer value at 
2 April 2016 
£000
Director 
contribution in the 
year 
£000
Transfer value 
increase/
(decrease) after 
deducting Director 
contribution
£000
Andrew Williams 1,149 1,250 – 101
Kevin Thompson 2,599 2,917 – 318
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director. Instead they represent a potential liability 
of the pension plan. The transfer values are Gilt-related and depend upon the relative standings of the Gilt market at the respective valuation 
dates. The increase in transfer values in recent years is predominantly due to the significant reduction in the yields available on UK Gilts. Other 
factors that have increased the transfer values are the impact of any additional service, revaluation in line with inflation and any real salary 
increases as well as the anticipated ageing of the member. These values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance 
with Actuarial Guidance Note GN1 1.
Adam Meyers is a member of the US 401k money purchase scheme. Company contributions paid in the year were US$18, 156 (£12,024) 
(2015: US$18,863 (£1 1,716)).
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration 
Report continued Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACTIVITIES
Halma plc is a holding company. A list of its subsidiary companies is set out on pages 166 to 168. The principal operating companies 
and their activities are set out on pages 176 to 179.
ORDINARY DIVIDENDS
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7 .83p per share and, if approved, this dividend will be paid on 17 August 2016 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 July 2016. Together with the interim dividend of 4.98p per share already paid, 
this will make a total of 12.81p (2015: 1 1.96p) per share for the financial year.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements in the share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the accounts. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the Company.
There are no other classes of share capital. There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with both 
governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. No person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF ORDINARY SHARES
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the 
holder of shares is a corporation, one or more corporate representatives. On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who (being an 
individual) is present in person or (being a corporation) is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being themself a member, 
shall have one vote, as shall proxies (unless they are appointed by more than one holder, in which case they may vote both for and against the 
resolution in accordance with the holders’ instructions). On a poll every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one 
vote for every share of which they are the holder. Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later 
than 48 hours before the meeting. A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares. Except as 
set out above and as permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number 
of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company has established an Employee Benefit Trust and the trustee has waived its right to all dividends.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings 
in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share. The Directors 
may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) lodged, duly stamped (if necessary), at the 
registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the share(s) to be transferred 
and/or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; (ii) in respect of only 
one class of shares; (iii) in favour of a person who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind; or (iv) in favour of not more than 
four persons jointly.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share 
in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider trading laws); or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Company’s 
certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests 
in those shares. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
TREASURY SHARES
Shares held in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible for dividends.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
The Company introduced a new Executive Share Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, and reflects current legislation, 
best practice and corporate governance requirements including recovery and withholding provisions. In addition, the new Plan includes flexibility 
to grant performance-related share awards, other share awards and deferred bonus awards.
The new Plan will be used primarily to grant performance-related awards and deferred bonus awards to executive Directors and selected 
senior employees. The Remuneration Committee believes that the ability to continue to grant long term share-based incentives as part of 
a balanced remuneration package will create a strong alignment of long term interest between senior management and shareholders.
Initial performance awards were made to executive Directors and selected senior management in July 2015, following shareholder approval 
of the Plan. The first grants of the deferred bonus awards will be made shortly after the payment of the cash element of the bonus.
Other Statutory Information 92 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Other Statutory Information continued
DILUTION LIMITS
The Performance Share Plan has awarded shares, before lapses, over a ten-year period totalling 4.0% of the Company’s issued share capital; 
this is within the 10.0% overall limit and the 7 .5% limit for discretionary share awards agreed in 2005. The Company has utilised treasury shares 
to satisfy all such awards.
The new 2015 Executive Share Plan provides that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes 
(including treasury shares) should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a ten-year period 
and for discretionary share awards to senior management 5% over a ten-year period. As at the date of this report, the Company remains 
within these limits.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation. Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting or by the Board. If a Director is appointed by the Board, such Director will hold office until the next annual general meeting and shall 
then be eligible for election at that meeting. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each of the Directors, being eligible (with 
the exception of Jane Aikman who will step down as a Director), will offer themselves for election or re-election at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting. The Company can remove a Director from office, including by passing a special resolution or by notice being given by all the other 
Directors. The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
POWER OF DIRECTORS
The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on request from the Company 
Secretary, and are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan 
agreements, private placement debt and employee share plans.
There are two significant agreements, in terms of the likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions:
• the £360m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can result in 30 days’ 
notice being given to the Company by any Lender, for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due and payable, at which 
time the commitment of that Lender will be cancelled. If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility would be cancelled; and 
• the US$250 million US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreement under which, in the event of a change of control, the Company 
is required to make an offer to the holders of the US Private Placement notes to prepay the principal amount of the notes together 
with interest accrued.
The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of suppliers. The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual arrangements 
with any particular customer. Whilst the loss or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the Group’s business, 
none is considered to be essential.
The Company’s share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change 
of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for 
loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
ALLOTMENT AUTHORITY
Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so. At the Annual General Meeting  
an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £12,500,000 (up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p each), being just less than one third of the issued share capital of the 
Company (excluding treasury shares) as at 13 June 2016 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting).
In accordance with the Directors’ stated intention to seek annual renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general 
meeting of the Company in 2017 . Passing this resolution will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when 
opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
As at 13 June 2016 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting), the Company had 379,645,332 ordinary 
shares of 10p each in issue of which 940,421 were held as treasury shares, which is equal to approximately 0.25% of the issued share  
capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares) as at that date. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them 
to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings. At the Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed which, 
if passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number of shares for cash and/or sell treasury shares without offering them to 
shareholders first. The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 10% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of 
the Company as at 13 June 2016 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting) of £3,780,000. The resolution will 
also modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other pre-emptive 
offer or issue. The authority will expire at the same time as the resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares. The Directors 
consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained 
in the resolution. There are no present plans to issue shares, except under share plans previously approved in general meeting.
PURCHASE OF THE COMPANY’S OWN SHARES
The Company was authorised at the 2015 annual general meeting to purchase up to 37 ,800,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the market. 
This authority expires at the end of the 2016 Annual General Meeting. In accordance with the Directors’ stated intention to seek annual renewal, 
a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority until the end of next year’s annual general meeting, 
in respect of up to 37 ,800,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) 
as at 13 June 2016 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting).
The Directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available. The authority,  
if granted, will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous to do so. The Directors will only make purchases under the authority 
where they believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders, or where the purchased 
shares are used to satisfy awards made under employee share plans, and such purchases are considered to be in the best interests of 
shareholders generally.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer 
for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them 
immediately on repurchase. The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue. For most purposes, while held 
in treasury, shares are treated as if they have been cancelled (for example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends).
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) at the 2005 annual general meeting, the Directors made routine purchases of Halma 
shares in the market for holding in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP . In the year to 2 April 2016, no shares were purchased in the 
market for treasury. Under the Executive Share Plan approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, shares vesting may be satisfied with market 
purchased shares held in trust or in treasury or with new issue shares. Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of using this authority. 
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take into account the Company’s cash resources, capital requirements and the 
effect of any purchase on the Company’s earnings per share. It is anticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested at subsequent 
annual general meetings.
As at 13 June 2016, which is the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, no further options were outstanding.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 July 2016. The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the proposed 
resolutions, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts and is also available on the Company’s website at www.halma.com.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 13 June 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 
voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
2 April 2016 13 June 2016
No. of ordinary 
shares
Percentage of 
voting rights 
and issued 
share capital
No. of ordinary 
shares
Percentage of 
voting rights 
and issued 
share capital
Nature of 
holdings
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company
37,841,275 10.00 37,841,275 10.00 Indirect
Capital Group 22,865,085 6.04 22,865,085 6.04 Indirect
Mawer Investment Management 18,943,311 5.00 18,943,311 5.00 Direct
Sprucegrove Investment 
Management Ltd
18,776,510 4.96 18,776,510 4.96 Indirect
BlackRock Inc 14,646,007 3.87 14,646,007 3.87 Indirect 94 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
SPECIAL BUSINESS
The Board will propose four special resolutions under Special Business at the Annual General Meeting. One of these is to permit the Company 
to retain the ability to call general meetings (other than annual general meetings) at 14 days’ notice rather than 21 days’ notice, in accordance 
with Section 307A of the Companies Act 2006 (as amended).
AUDITOR
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and 
• the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SCOPE OF THE REPORTING IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and Auditor’s Report, for the year 
ended 2 April 2016. The Corporate Governance Report set out on page 54, which includes details of the Directors who served during the year, 
forms part of this report.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date. An indication of the likely future developments in the business of the 
Company and details of research and development activities are included in the Strategic Review on pages 4 to 47 . Details related to employee 
and environmental matters, including greenhouse gas emissions reporting, are included within the Sustainability report on pages 48 to 53.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 26 to the financial statements.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4. 1.5 R(2) and DTR 4. 1.8 R, the required content of the management report can be found in the 
Strategic Report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the following items are not applicable: (1) interest capitalised; (2) publication of unaudited financial information; 
(5) waiver of emoluments by a Director; (6) waiver of future emoluments by a Director; (7) non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash; (8) non 
pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary undertakings; (9) parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary; 
(1 1) provisions of services by a controlling shareholder; and (14) agreements with controlling shareholders.
Applicable items can be located as follows: (4) details of long-term incentive schemes – note 23 to the financial statements; (10) contracts 
of significance; (12) shareholder waiver of dividends; and (13) shareholder waivers of future dividends – Other Statutory Information, pages 
91 to 94. 
By order of the Board
Carol Chesney
Company Secretary
14 June 2016
Other Statutory Information continued Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and
• the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director
14 June 2016  
94 
 
In our opinion: 
 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 2 April 2016 
and of the Group’s profit for the 53 week period then ended; 
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union; 
 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and 
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and parent company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and parent company 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C14. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure 
Framework”. 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting on page 68 of the financial statements and the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained 
within the Corporate Governance Report on page 68. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 the directors' confirmation on page 68 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; 
 the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; 
 the directors’ statement in the accounting policies note in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; 
 the directors’ explanation on page 68 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so 
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 
group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the 
group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are 
independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we 
have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. 
The risks identified below are the same risks as identified in the prior year. 
 
  
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HALMA PLC 
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN 
THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP 
INDEPENDENCE 
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT  
96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc  
95 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill 
At 2 April 2016, the net book value of goodwill was £544m (2015: 
£406m), the increase is due to the four acquisitions in the period. 
Management perform an impairment review under IAS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’ on an annual basis and whenever an 
indication of impairment exists. 
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill is a significant risk due to 
the quantum of the balance and the judgements involved in setting the 
key assumptions and assertions used by management to support their 
assessment of the carrying value. In testing the carrying value for 
impairment, management has made a number of key assumptions, 
including short-term and long-term growth rates, discount rates and 
the use of 11 (2015: 10) cash generating unit (“CGU”) groups. 
During the period, management has established a new CGU group 
in respect of Sensor Technologies, to which the goodwill arising on 
the CenTrak acquisition has been allocated for impairment testing. 
The associated disclosure is included in note 11. The Audit 
Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 72 
and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements 
on page 110. 
We assessed whether the CGU groups represent the lowest level 
within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes and the appropriateness of establishing the 
new Sensor Technologies CGU group to allocate the goodwill 
arising on the CenTrak acquisition. 
We challenged the reasonableness of the short term growth rates 
with reference to the budgets approved by the Board, historical 
performance and post period trading data.  
We assessed the long term growth rates by reference to market 
specific GDP growth rates based on third party sources.  
We performed a specific review and challenge, involving Deloitte’s 
valuation specialists, of the discount rates applied for each group 
of CGUs. We assessed the Group’s weighted average cost of 
capital and sector specific risk premiums using external input 
data and benchmarking the discount rates against published 
peer group rates. 
We recalculated management’s sensitivity analysis on key 
assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative 
scenarios e.g. applying further changes to discount rates and 
forecast growth rates. 
We have reviewed the disclosures made in the financial statements 
and assessed compliance with IAS 36. 
Acquisition accounting 
There were four acquisitions in the period with a total initial 
consideration of £188m. The acquisitions were Value Added 
Solutions LLC, Firetrace USA LLC, Visiometrics S.L. and Visual 
Diagnostics Inc. (together Visiometrics) and CenTrak Inc. The total 
value of separable intangible assets arising on these acquisitions in 
the period is £100m. 
There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in 
line with IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’. The risk relates to the 
assumptions and assertions used by management to fair value the 
acquired assets and liabilities, including separately identified 
intangible assets, together with the determination of deferred 
contingent consideration at the date of acquisition. 
In determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets 
management use a valuation model that incorporates their 
assumptions in respect of forecast revenues, useful life, forecast 
margins and discount rates. Management engaged third party 
valuation experts to assist them in the preparation of the acquisition 
accounting for the Firetrace acquisition. 
There is a maximum amount of potential deferred contingent 
consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Visiometrics of 
€107m. Significant judgement has been applied by Management in 
establishing their best estimate of the liability which is £21m based on 
a risk weighted assessment of the forecast future performance of the 
acquired business.  
Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 24 to the 
accounts. The Audit Committee has included their assessment 
of this risk on page 72 and it is included in the key accounting 
estimates and judgements on page 110.  
We obtained the models for the acquisitions in the period and 
reviewed the opening balance sheet and fair value adjustments by 
reference to supporting schedules and evidence as applicable. 
Our audit of the separately identified acquired intangible assets 
focused on the assumptions in management’s valuation model. 
We challenged the key assumptions including forecast revenues, 
useful life, forecast margin and discount rates utilising our internal 
valuation specialists to support our assessment of the discount 
rates used. 
We benchmarked the output of the acquisition models, including 
the goodwill to intangible asset ratio, to similar prior year 
acquisitions challenging any significant variances and considering 
the business rationale.  
We agreed the underlying data in the deferred contingent 
consideration calculation to signed sale and purchase agreements. 
We assessed Management’s process and the assumptions used to 
determine the estimate of future deferred contingent consideration 
payable including a comparison of forecast trading performance 
against historical and post-acquisition financial results. Given the 
dependence on future trading we have also considered the 
disclosures in respect of this. 
We assessed management’s treatment of deferred contingent 
consideration payments as additional purchase consideration 
(as opposed to post-acquisition remuneration by reviewing the 
terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreements (SPA)). 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
96 
 
Defined benefit pension scheme assumptions 
At 2 April 2016 the net retirement benefit liability recognised in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes was £52m (2015: £67m). 
There is a risk relating to judgements made by management in 
valuing the defined benefit pension schemes including the use of 
key model input assumptions such as discount rates, mortality 
assumptions and inflation rates. These variables can have a 
material impact in calculating the quantum of the retirement 
benefit liability. 
Management utilise the services of third party actuarial advisers to 
determine their key assumptions.  
Details of the defined benefit pension scheme are disclosed in note 
28 to the accounts. The Audit Committee has included their 
assessment of this risk on page 72 and it is included in the key 
accounting estimates and judgements on page 110.  
We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the assumptions 
applied in accounting for the defined benefit pension liability and 
determined whether the key assumptions are reasonable. This 
included reviewing available yield curves and inflation data to 
recalculate a reasonable range for the key assumptions.  
We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of 
changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates 
that could be used in their calculation. We discussed the output of 
sensitivity analysis with management and their third party actuarial 
advisers. Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions against 
other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key 
assumptions. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on page 72. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and 
in evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £7.3m (2015: £6.6m), which is 5% (2015: 5%) of statutory pre-tax profit. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £365,000 (2015: 
£132,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. This threshold has 
been increased in the current period based on our assessment of what constitutes a clearly trivial audit difference. We also report to the 
Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
  
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY 
98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc continued  
97 
 
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily 
on the audit work at 53 out of 98 trading entities (2015: 52 out of 88). The increase in the total trading entities was a result of the 
acquisitions in the period. 51 (2015: 47) of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 3 (2015: 5) were subject to specified 
audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the 
materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations. The full scope and specified audit procedures entities represent the principal 
business units and account for 68% (2015: 70%) of the Group’s revenue, 77% (2015: 73%) of the Group’s profit before tax and 80% 
(2015: 78%) of the Group’s net assets. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address 
the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work on the 54 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to 
each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £15,000 to £1,972,000 (2015: £42,000 to £976,000). 
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits based on their risk assessment. As a minimum, 
each year a senior member of the Group audit team will visit the significant components (defined as contributing greater than 10% of 
Group profit or revenue, of which only Apollo UK met this criterion in the period), in addition to visiting the US component auditor and 
selected US components. Furthermore all 27 UK components are directly overseen by the Group engagement partner or Group 
director. In years when we do not visit a component that is in scope, we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, 
discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject 
to audit or audit of specified account balances. These procedures also included, at a minimum, obtaining the bank reconciliations and 
statements for all entities above a £365,000 threshold. For a selection of relevant entities, based on a risk threshold criteria, we also 
performed revenue cut off, subsequent cash receipt and inventory provision tests necessary to conclude on these balances.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revenue
Full audit scope and  
specified procedures audits  68%
Review at Group level 32%
Profit before tax
Full audit scope and  
specified procedures audits 77%
Review at Group level 23%
Net assets
Full audit scope and  
specified procedures audits 80%
Review at Group level 20%  
98 
 
In our opinion: 
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters. 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is: 
 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
 otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Directors’ remuneration 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
 
100 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc continued  
99 
 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 
review team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
 
 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, UK 
14 June 2016 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Nigel Thomas (Senior statutory auditor) 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
100 
 
Consolidated Income Statement 
 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; and the associated taxation thereon. 
  
  53 weeks to 2 April 2016 52 weeks to 28 March 2015 
 Notes 
Before 
adjustments* 
£000 
Adjustments* 
 (note 1) 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Before 
adjustments* 
£000 
Adjustments* 
(note 1) 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Continuing operations        
Revenue 1 807,805  – 807,805  726,134  –  726,134  
Operating profit  173,225  (30,282)  142,943  158,500  (21,437)  137,063  
Share of results of associate 14 (159) – (159)  64  –  64  
Profit on disposal of operations 29 – 556  556  – 1,430  1,430  
Finance income 4 217  – 217  167  –  167  
Finance expense 5 (7,269)  – (7,269)  (5,113)  –  (5,113)  
Profit before taxation 6 166,014  (29,726)  136,288  153,618  (20,007)  133,611  
Taxation 9 (36,373)  8,926  (27,447)  (35,706)  6,096  (29,610)  
Profit for the year 
attributable to equity 
shareholders 1 129,641  (20,800)  108,841  117,912  (13,911)  104,001  
Earnings per share 2       
From continuing operations        
Basic  34.26p    28.76p  31.17p  27.49p 
Diluted      28.76p    27.48p 
Dividends in respect  
of the year 10 
      
   
Paid and proposed (£000)      48,472    45,229 
Paid and proposed per share      12.81p    11.96p 
102 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Consolidated Income Statement  
101 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure 
 
 
The exchange gain of £30,036,000 (2015: gain of £30,900,000) includes gains of £9,336,000 (2015: gains of £862,000) which relate  
to net investment hedges as described on page 115. 
  
 Notes 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Profit for the year  108,841 104,001 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the Consolidated Income Statement:    
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans  28 8,841 (34,795) 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified 9 (2,304) 6,791 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the Consolidated Income Statement:    
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 26 (990) 71 
Exchange gains on translation of foreign operations and net investment hedge  30,036 30,900 
Exchange losses transferred to Income Statement on disposal of operation  22 189 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified 9 209 (23) 
Other comprehensive income for the year  35,814 3,133 
      
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders  144,655 107,134 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
102 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
* Referred to in prior years as Treasury shares 
The financial statements of Halma plc, company number 00040932, were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2016. 
Director Director 
  
 Notes 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March  
2015 
£000 
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 11 544,259 406,190 
Other intangible assets 12 231,753 138,691 
Property, plant and equipment 13 96,562 86,303 
Interest in associate 14 3,722 4,236 
Deferred tax asset 21 44,424 28,596 
  920,720 664,016 
Current assets     
Inventories 15 105,318 79,734 
Trade and other receivables 16 183,619 156,464 
Tax receivable  190 20 
Cash and bank balances  53,938 41,230 
Derivative financial instruments 26 1,131 1,069 
  344,196 278,517 
Total assets  1,264,916 942,533 
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables 17 122,791 102,717 
Borrowings 18 4,748 1,705 
Provisions 19 4,437 11,746 
Tax liabilities  15,158 12,405 
Derivative financial instruments 26 2,196 636 
  149,330 129,209 
Net current assets  194,866 149,308 
Non-current liabilities     
Borrowings 18 295,908 140,419 
Retirement benefit obligations 28 52,323 66,790 
Trade and other payables 20 10,153 3,756 
Provisions 19 18,510 1,549 
Deferred tax liabilities 21 92,352 51,862 
  469,246 264,376 
Total liabilities  618,576 393,585 
Net assets  646,340 548,948 
Equity     
Share capital 22 37,965 37,965 
Share premium account  23,608 23,608 
Own shares*  (8,219) (8,450) 
Capital redemption reserve  185 185 
Hedging reserve  (610) 171 
Translation reserve  75,387 45,329 
Other reserves  (5,831) (4,073) 
Retained earnings  523,855 454,213 
Shareholders’ funds  646,340 548,948 
A J Williams K J Thompson  
104 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Consolidated Balance Sheet  
103 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
* The presentation of the Hedging and Translation reserves, which were previously netted, has been amended to show the two reserves and their movements in the 
year separately. The comparatives have been adjusted to reflect this amended presentation. There has been no impact on Shareholders’ funds in either year. 
** The purchase of Employee Benefit Trust shares/treasury shares and performance share plan awards vested were shown net in Own shares in prior years, as were 
the share-based payments charge and performance share plan awards vested in Other reserves. The prior year comparative has been adjusted to show these 
gross amounts. There has been no impact on Shareholders’ funds in either year. 
Own shares are ordinary shares in Halma plc purchased by the Company and held to fulfil the Company’s obligations under the 
Group’s share plans. At 2 April 2016 the number of treasury shares held was 940,421 (2015: 1,371,785) and the number of shares 
held by the Employee Benefit Trust was 311,444 (2015: nil). The market value of Own shares was £11,417,000 (2015: £9,616,000).  
The Translation reserve is used to record the difference arising from the retranslation of the financial statements of foreign operations. 
The Hedging reserve is used to record the portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that 
are deemed to be an effective hedge. 
The Capital redemption reserve was created on repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. The Other reserves 
represent the provision for the value of the Group’s equity-settled share plans.  
 
Share 
capital  
£000 
Share 
premium 
account  
£000 
Own 
shares  
£000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£000 
Hedging 
reserve* 
£000 
Translation 
 reserve* 
£000 
Other 
reserves  
£000 
Retained 
earnings  
£000 
Total  
£000 
At 28 March 2015 37,965 23,608 (8,450) 185 171 45,329 (4,073) 454,213 548,948 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  –  108,841 108,841 
Other comprehensive income 
and expense:                  
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations –  –  –  –  –  30,036 –  –  30,036 
Exchange losses transferred 
to Income Statement on 
disposal of operations –  –  –  –  –  22 –  –  22 
Actuarial gains on defined 
benefit pension plans –  –  –  –  –  –  –  8,841 8,841 
Effective portion of changes 
in fair value of cash flow 
hedges –  –  –  –  (990) –  –  –  (990) 
Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive 
income –  –  –  –  209 –  –  (2,304) (2,095) 
Total other comprehensive 
income and expense –  –  –  –  (781) 30,058 –  6,537 35,814 
Dividends paid –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (46,473) (46,473) 
Share-based payment 
charge –  –  –  –  –  –  3,845 –  3,845 
Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions –  –  –  –  –  –  109 –  109 
Excess tax deductions 
related to share-based 
payments on exercised 
awards –  –  –  –  –  –  –  737 737 
Purchase of Own shares** –  –  (3,003) –  –  –  –  –  (3,003) 
Performance share plan 
awards vested** –  –  3,234 –  –  –  (5,712) –  (2,478) 
At 2 April 2016 37,965 23,608 (8,219) 185 (610) 75,387 (5,831) 523,855 646,340 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
104 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity continued 
 
* The presentation of the Hedging and Translation reserves, which were previously netted, has been amended to show the two reserves and their movements in 
the year separately. There has been no impact on Shareholders’ funds in either year. 
** The purchase of Employee Benefit Trust shares/treasury shares and performance share plan awards vested were shown net in Own shares in prior years, as 
were the share-based payments charge and performance share plan awards vested in Other reserves. There has been no impact on Shareholders’ funds in 
either year.  
  
  
 
Share 
capital  
£000 
Share 
premium 
account  
£000 
Own 
shares  
£000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£000 
Hedging 
reserve* 
£000 
 
Translation 
reserve* 
£000 
Other 
reserves  
£000 
Retained 
earnings  
£000 
Total  
£000 
At 29 March 2014 37,902 22,778 (7,054) 185 123 14,240 (2,745) 420,571 486,000 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 104,001 104,001 
Other comprehensive income 
and expense:           
 
     
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations – – – – – 30,900 – – 30,900 
Exchange losses transferred 
to Income Statement on 
disposal of operations – – – – – 189 – –  189 
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension plans – – – – –  – – (34,795) (34,795) 
Effective portion of changes in 
fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – 71 – – –  71 
Tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income – – – – (23) – – 6,791 6,768 
Total other comprehensive 
income and expense – – – – 48 31,089 – (28,004) 3,133 
Share options exercised 63 830 – – – – – – 893 
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (43,399) (43,399) 
Share-based payment charge – – – – – – 3,828 –  3,828 
Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions – – – – – – 291 –  291 
Excess tax deductions related 
to share-based payments on 
exercised awards – – – – – – – 1,044 1,044 
Purchase of treasury shares** – – (6,843) – – – – – (6,843) 
Performance share plan 
awards vested** – – 5,447 – – 
 
(5,447) – – 
At 28 March 2015 37,965 23,608 (8,450) 185 171 45,329 (4,073) 454,213 548,948 
106 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity continued  
105 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
 
*  Of the £657,000 loan notes issued in the prior year £367,000 was converted at par into cash on 17 July 2015. New loan notes were issued totalling £288,000 on 
15 April 2015, 8 July 2015 and 30 November 2015 in respect of the acquisition of Advanced Electronics Limited in the prior year. These loan notes, which attract 
interest at 1%, are convertible into cash at par on each anniversary of the acquisition date until 14 May 2019. A further £336,000 of loan notes outstanding at the 
balance sheet date were converted at par into cash post year-end on 14 May 2016. 
 Notes 
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
 2016  
£000 
52 weeks to  
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 25 149,273 137,231 
      
Cash flows from investing activities      
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (22,418) (22,164) 
Purchase of computer software 12 (1,669) (1,021) 
Purchase of other intangibles 12 (535) (382) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  2,364 1,411 
Proceeds from sale of capitalised development costs  166 – 
Development costs capitalised 12 (8,579) (7,213) 
Interest received  217 134 
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 24 (202,575) (87,743) 
Disposal of operations, net of cash disposed 29 907 4,248 
Net cash used in investing activities  (232,122) (112,730) 
      
Financing activities      
Dividends paid  (46,473) (43,399) 
Proceeds from issue of share capital  – 893 
Purchase of Own shares  (3,003) (6,843) 
Interest paid  (4,149) (3,118) 
Loan arrangement fee paid  (770) – 
Proceeds from bank borrowings 25 74,788  68,962 
Repayment of bank borrowings 25 (97,000) (35,341) 
Proceeds on issue of loan notes  26 167,473 – 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities  90,866 (18,846) 
      
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 25 8,017 5,655 
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward  39,525 33,126 
Exchange adjustments  1,984 744 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward  49,526 39,525 
 Notes 
53 weeks to 
2 April 
 2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt    
Increase in cash and cash equivalents  8,017 5,655 
Net cash outflow/(inflow) from repayment/(drawdown) of bank borrowings 25 22,212 (33,621) 
Proceeds from issue of loan notes 26 (167,473) – 
Net debt acquired  – (468) 
Loan notes issued in respect of acquisitions*  (288) (657) 
Loan notes repaid in respect of acquisitions*  367 2,731 
Exchange adjustments  (8,659) (38) 
  (145,824) (26,398) 
Net debt brought forward  (100,894) (74,496) 
Net debt carried forward  (246,718) (100,894) 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
106 
 
Accounting Policies 
 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in 
the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing 
these accounts. 
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended  
2 April 2016 and 28 March 2015 other than those noted below. 
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading 
‘Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting’. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations that are potentially relevant to the 
Group, and which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not 
yet been adopted by the EU): 
 IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018.  
 IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.  
 IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. 
 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amended) ‘Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture’ – effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.  
 IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amended) ‘Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation’ – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
 Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, specifically 
amendments to IAS 34 ‘Interim Financial Reporting’. 
 Amendments to IAS 1 – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
 Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ – applicable for accounting periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2016. 
 Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations’ – applicable for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016. 
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the financial statements of the Group except for IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, which will introduce a number of changes in 
the presentation of financial instruments, IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, which may change the timing of 
revenue recognition for some companies within the Group, and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, which will bring a significant portion of the 
Group’s operating leases on balance sheet. 
The following Standards with an effective date of 1 January 2015 have been adopted without any significant impact on the amounts 
reported in these financial statements: 
 IAS19 (amended) ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions’. 
 Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle, specifically amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payments’ and IFRS 8 
‘Operating Segments’. 
 Annual Improvements 2011-2013, specifically amendments to IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’. 
 
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET APPLIED 
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS APPLIED FOR THE FIRST TIME 
 
108 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Accounting Policies  
107 
 
Below we set out our key accounting policies, with a list of all other accounting policies thereafter. 
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a high level of confidence that despite the current economic 
uncertainty the Company has the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its business 
model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for the foreseeable future. Thus, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing these financial statements. Further detail is contained on page 68. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: 
 the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
 the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus 
 the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less 
 the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Any contingent consideration payable may be accounted for as either: 
a) Consideration transferred, which is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent purchase consideration is 
classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the 
fair value of the contingent purchase consideration are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement; or 
b) Remuneration, which is expensed in the Income Statement over the associated period of service. An indicator of such treatment 
includes when payments to employees of the acquired company are contingent on a post-acquisition event, but may be 
automatically forfeited on termination of employment.  
For acquisitions between 4 April 2004 (the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS) and 2 April 2010, 
goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net 
identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment. 
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill therefore includes non-identified  
intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific knowledge 
and technical skills. Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on closure 
or disposal. 
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its 
consolidated accounts. As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 
was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that 
date; and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining 
the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards. 
 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Going concern 
Business combinations and goodwill 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
108 
 
Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or 
substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the 
decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably. Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible 
asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis 
over its estimated economic life of three years. 
An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the 
acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can 
be measured reliably. Acquired intangible assets, comprising trademarks and customer relationships, are amortised through the 
Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and thirteen years. 
The Group makes contributions to various pension plans, covering the majority of its employees. 
For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is the difference between the fair value of the 
plan’s assets and the present value of the defined obligation at that date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately for each 
plan on an annual basis by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are taken to other comprehensive income. 
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated Income 
Statement. The net interest expense on pension plans’ liabilities and the expected return on the plans’ assets is recognised within 
finance expense in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement when they fall due. 
The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  
The following four areas of key estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgement have been identified as having significant risk 
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year: 
 
Intangible assets  
(a) Product development costs 
(b) Acquired intangible assets 
Pensions 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
 
110 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Accounting Policies continued  
109 
 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating units (CGUs) to which goodwill 
has been allocated. In turn, the value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs. The 
future cash flows are based on annual budgets, as approved by the Board, to which the management’s expectation of market-share 
and long-term growth rates are applied. The present value is then calculated based on management’s judgement of future discount 
rates. The Board reviews these key assumptions (market-share, long-term growth rates, and discount rates) and the sensitivity analysis 
around these assumptions. Further details are provided in note 11.  
IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’ requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included 
in intangible assets. IFRS 3 (revised) also requires the identification and valuation of other separable intangible assets at acquisition. 
The assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets require the use of estimates and judgements.  
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ requires that development costs, arising from the application of research findings or other technical 
knowledge to a plan or design of a new or substantially improved product, are capitalised, subject to certain criteria being met. 
Determining the technical feasibility and estimating the future cash flows generated by the products in development requires 
judgements which may differ from the actual outcome. 
The estimates and judgements made in relation to both acquired intangible assets and capitalised development costs, cover future 
growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used. 
Determining the value of contingent consideration recognised as part of the acquisition of subsidiaries requires assumptions 
to determine the expected performance of the acquired business and the amount of contingent consideration that will therefore 
become payable. Initial estimates of expected performance are made by the Directors responsible for completing the acquisition 
and form a key component of the financial due diligence that takes place prior to completion. Subsequent measurement of contingent 
consideration is based on the Directors’ appraisal of the acquired business’ performance in the post-acquisition period with any 
required adjustments to the amount payable recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as required under IFRS 3. Further 
details are provided in note 24. 
Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate 
present values. These include future mortality, discount rate and inflation. Management makes these judgements in consultation with an 
independent actuary. Details of the judgements made in calculating the defined benefit obligation are disclosed in note 28. 
The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma plc and all of its subsidiary companies made up to 2 April 2016, adjusted to 
eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses. The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued 
are included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation. 
 
Critical accounting judgements 
Goodwill impairment 
Intangible assets 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Contingent consideration 
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities 
OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of consolidation 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
110 
 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the investee but without control or joint control over those policies. 
The results and assets and liabilities of the associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Investments in associate are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in 
the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate 
in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s 
net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate. 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date 
of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for 
impairment as part of that investment. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in profit or loss in the year 
of acquisition.  
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interest in the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate 
provision is made for impairment.  
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and 
is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three 
and five years. 
Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives 
of between three and five years. 
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an 
annual impairment test. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement to the extent that an asset’s carrying value exceeds its 
recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. An asset’s value in use 
represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to 
which it relates. The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time  
value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned. 
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill 
are not reversed. 
 
Investments in associate 
Other intangible assets 
(a) Computer software 
(b) Other intangibles 
Impairment of non-current assets 
 
112 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Accounting Policies continued  
111 
 
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (the Chief 
Executive) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete 
financial information is available. 
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by the 
Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments. Segment result represents operating profits and includes an allocation 
of Head Office expenses. Segment result excludes tax and financing items. Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, 
property, plant and equipment (excluding land and buildings), inventories, trade and other receivables. Segment liabilities comprise 
trade and other payables, provisions and other payables. Unallocated items represent land and buildings, corporate and deferred 
taxation balances, defined benefit plan liabilities, contingent purchase consideration, all components of net cash/borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments. 
Inventories and work in progress are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated either on a ‘first in, 
first out’ or an average cost basis and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads 
considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the year end. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution. 
Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales 
related taxes. Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in 
accordance with the contracted terms of sale.  
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised while the contracts are in progress. Revenue is recognised proportionally to the stage of 
completion of the contract, based on the fair value of goods and services provided to date, taking into account the sign-off of milestone 
delivery by customers. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised 
as an expense immediately. 
When items of income or expense or material and they are relevant to an understanding of the entity’s financial performance, they are 
disclosed separately within the financial statements. Such adjusting items include material costs or reversals arising from acquisitions 
or disposals of businesses, including acquisition costs, material creation or reversals of provisions related to changes in estimates for 
contingent consideration on acquisition, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and other one-off items that may arise. 
Taxation comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders’ funds, in which case it too is recognised in Shareholders’ funds. Current tax is the 
expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance sheet date, 
along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes 
and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart from the following 
differences which are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect 
neither accounting nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will probably not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws, which are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the 
asset is realised. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that recovery is probable. 
 
Segmental reporting 
Inventories 
Revenue 
Adjusting items 
Taxation 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
112 
 
The Group presents its accounts in Sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of 
the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates 
prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss 
in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, 
and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year. Exchange 
gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Hedging and translation reserve within Shareholders’ funds. 
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking 
into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Hedging and translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary. As 
permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Hedging and translation to be £nil at 4 April 2004. Accordingly, the profit or 
loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004. 
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using forward exchange 
contracts. Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 26. 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit and loss (held for trading) unless they are in a designated 
hedge relationship. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, unless the 
derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Consolidated Income 
Statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable 
forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges), or hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations.  
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as 
a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument 
is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current 
assets or current liabilities. 
 
Foreign currencies 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
 
114 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Accounting Policies continued  
113 
 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.  
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception 
of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument has been or is expected to be highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.  
Note 26 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and the movements in the hedging 
reserve in equity. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised 
in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion as a result of being over hedged is recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.  
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated Income 
Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. However, when the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously 
accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or 
non-financial liability.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that 
time is accumulated in equity and is recognised, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised, in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.  
The Group uses foreign currency denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s net investment 
in overseas companies. Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by 
changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and accumulated in the Hedging and translation reserve. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in 
exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s share incentive plan, the performance share plan and the 
executive share plan. 
Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria. The shares 
awarded under this plan are purchased in the market by the plan’s trustees at the time of the award, and are then held in trust for a 
minimum of three years. The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the three year vesting period 
of the awards. 
 
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Net investment hedge accounting 
Employee share plans 
(a) Share incentive plan 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
114 
 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
Awards under this plan are partly equity-settled and partly cash-settled. Grants were subject to both market-based and  
non-market-based vesting criteria. No further grants will be made under this plan. 
The fair value of the equity-settled portion at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect 
the likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met. The fair value is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 
on a straight-line basis over the three year vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect 
expected and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market-based performance conditions only. The corresponding credit is to 
Shareholders’ funds. 
During the year ended 2 April 2016, Halma plc introduced the Executive Share Plan, in which executive Directors and certain senior 
employees participate. Grants under this Plan are in the form of Performance Awards or Deferred Share Awards. 
Performance Awards are subject to non-market-based vesting criteria, and Deferred Share Awards are subject only to continuing 
service of the employee. Share awards are equity settled. The fair value of the awards at the date of grant, which is estimated to be 
equal to the market value, is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with 
appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures. The corresponding credit is to 
Shareholders’ funds. 
For cash-settled awards, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each 
balance sheet date. 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.  
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of the cash flows.  
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable 
is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be 
measured reliably. 
Government grant income that is linked to capital expenditure is deferred to the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the 
Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset. In addition, the Group claims research and development expenditure 
credits arising on qualifying expenditure in its UK-based subsidiaries and shows these ‘above the line’ in Operating profit. Where the 
credits arise on expenditure that is capitalised as part of Internally generated capitalised development costs, the income is deferred to 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset in line with the 
policy stated above. 
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the share of results of associates, profit or loss on disposal 
of operations, finance income and finance costs. 
 
(b) Performance share plan 
(c) Executive share plan 
(d) Cash settled 
Provisions 
Deferred government grant income 
Operating profit 
 
116 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Accounting Policies continued  
115 
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand.  
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by 
the Company’s shareholders. 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception 
of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each asset’s estimated economic life. The principal 
annual rates used for this purpose are: 
Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases, of which the 
Group has none. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. 
 
Freehold property 2% 
Leasehold properties:  
Long leases (more than 50 years unexpired) 2% 
Short leases (less than 50 years unexpired) Period of lease 
Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3% 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Dividends 
Property, plant and equipment 
Leases 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
116 
 
Notes to the Accounts 
 
The Group has four reportable segments (Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety, Medical, and Environmental & Analysis),  
which are defined by markets rather than product type. Each segment includes businesses with similar operating and marketing 
characteristics. These segments are consistent with the internal reporting as reviewed by the Chief Executive.  
Inter-segmental sales are charged at prevailing market prices and have not been disclosed separately by segment as they are not 
considered material. Revenue derived from the rendering of services was £25,134,000 (2015: £22,022,000). All revenue was otherwise 
derived from the sale of products. 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; and profit or loss on disposal of operations. 
 
  
 
Revenue 
(all continuing operations) 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Process Safety 155,467 158,372  
Infrastructure Safety 264,843 234,063  
Medical 198,715 169,333  
Environmental & Analysis 188,928 164,412  
Inter-segmental sales (148) (46)  
Revenue for the year 807,805 726,134  
 
Profit 
(all continuing operations) 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to  
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Segment profit before allocation of adjustments*   
Process Safety 39,557 44,772 
Infrastructure Safety 56,167 49,992 
Medical 51,695 45,385 
Environmental & Analysis 34,527 27,403 
 181,946 167,552 
Segment profit after allocation of adjustments*   
Process Safety 36,095 40,280 
Infrastructure Safety 50,965 49,585 
Medical 34,747 31,981 
Environmental & Analysis 30,413 25,699 
Segment profit 152,220 147,545 
Central administration costs  (8,880) (8,988) 
Net finance expense (7,052) (4,946) 
Group profit before taxation 136,288 133,611 
Taxation (27,447) (29,610) 
Profit for the year 108,841 104,001 
1 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
Sector analysis 
Segment revenue and results 
118 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts  
117 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies. Acquisition transaction costs, 
adjustments to contingent consideration and release of fair value adjustments to inventory (collectively ‘acquisition items’) are 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Segment profit, before these acquisition items and the other adjustments, is 
disclosed separately above as this is the measure reported to the Chief Executive for the purpose of allocation of resources and 
assessment of segment performance. 
These adjustments are analysed as follows: 
The transaction costs arose mainly on the acquisitions (see note 24) of Value Added Solutions, LLC (VAS), Firetrace USA, LLC 
(Firetrace), Visiometrics, S.L. (Visiometrics), and CenTrak Inc. (CenTrak), which were acquired on 19 May 2015, 5 October 2015, 
16 December 2015 and 3 February 2016 respectively.  
The £827,000 charge in the Infrastructure Safety sector related to a revision in the estimate of the remaining contingent consideration 
payable on Advanced Electronics Limited (Advanced) acquired in the prior year. The £826,000 charge in the Medical sector related to 
exchange differences arising on the revaluation of Visiometric’s contingent consideration which is denominated in Euros. The remaining 
£111,000 credit to contingent consideration related to a revision in the estimate of the remaining payable on a prior year acquisition 
(ASL) from £197,000 to £86,000.  
The release of fair value adjustments to inventory arises from revaluing the inventories of Firetrace and CenTrak at acquisition.  
The £590,000 profit on disposal in the Medical sector relates to the disposal of 8.8% of the Group’s ownership interest in Optomed Oy 
on 26 August 2015. See note 29 for further details. The £34,000 loss on disposal of operations relates to warranty claims arising on the 
Monitor disposal in the prior year. 
The transaction costs arose mainly on the acquisitions of Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. (RCS), Advanced and Plasticspritzerei AG, 
which were acquired in the prior year. The charge of £1,581,000 to contingent consideration related mainly to a revision in the estimate 
of the remaining MST payable from US$6,504,000 to US$9,061,000. The £2,303,000 credit to contingent consideration related to a 
revision in the estimate of the remaining ASL payable from £2,500,000 to £197,000. The release of fair value adjustments to inventory 
arose from revaluing the inventories of RCS and Advanced at acquisition.  
    53 weeks to 2 April 2016 
  Acquisition items    
 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£000 
Transaction 
costs 
£000 
Adjustments 
to contingent 
consideration  
£000 
Release of 
fair value 
adjustments 
to inventory  
£000 
Total 
amortisation 
charge and 
acquisition 
items 
£000 
 
 Disposal of  
operations 
 (note 29)  
£000 
Total 
£000 
Process Safety (3,462) – – – (3,462) – (3,462) 
Infrastructure Safety (2,398) (1,101) (827) (842) (5,168) (34) (5,202) 
Medical (13,018) (2,926) (826) (768) (17,538) 590 (16,948) 
Environmental & Analysis (4,225) – 111 – (4,114) – (4,114) 
Total Segment & Group (23,103) (4,027) (1,542) (1,610) (30,282) 556 (29,726) 
     52 weeks to 28 March 2015 
  Acquisition items    
 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangible 
assets  
£000 
Transaction 
costs  
£000 
Adjustments 
to contingent 
consideration  
£000 
Release of 
fair value 
adjustments 
to inventory  
£000 
Total 
amortisation 
charge and 
acquisition 
items  
£000 
Disposal of 
operations 
 (note 29) 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Process Safety 
(3,026) (928) – (538) (4,492) – (4,492) 
Infrastructure Safety 
(765) (486) (102) (130) (1,483) 1,076 (407) 
Medical 
(12,156) (21) (1,581) – (13,758) 354 (13,404) 
Environmental & Analysis 
(4,007) – 2,303 – (1,704) – (1,704) 
Total Segment & Group (19,954) (1,435) 620 (668) (21,437) 1,430 (20,007) 
1 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
118 
 
 
Segment assets and liabilities, excluding the allocation of goodwill, interest in associate and acquired intangible assets, have been 
disclosed separately above as this is the measure reported to the Chief Executive for the purpose of monitoring segment performance 
and allocating resources between segments. Other unallocated assets include land and buildings and tax assets, and unallocated 
liabilities include contingent purchase consideration, retirement benefit obligations and tax liabilities. 
  Assets  Liabilities 
Before goodwill, interest in associate and acquired intangible assets 
are allocated to specific segment assets/liabilities 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Process Safety 66,582 65,141 19,104 21,842 
Infrastructure Safety 122,093 97,424 43,761 33,112 
Medical 90,177 62,981 38,186 23,947 
Environmental & Analysis 81,726 72,599 31,237 26,288 
Total segment assets/liabilities excluding goodwill, interest in associate 
and acquired intangible assets 360,578 298,145 132,288 105,189 
Goodwill 544,259 406,190 – – 
Interest in associate 3,722 4,236 – – 
Acquired intangible assets 204,095 119,541 – – 
Total segment assets/liabilities including goodwill, interest in associate 
and acquired intangible assets 1,112,654 828,112 132,288 105,189 
  Assets  Liabilities 
After goodwill, interest in associate and acquired intangible assets 
are allocated to specific segment assets/liabilities 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Process Safety 156,351 154,677 19,104 21,842 
Infrastructure Safety 283,189 191,701 43,761 33,112 
Medical 468,763 286,990 38,186 23,947 
Environmental & Analysis 204,351 194,744 31,237 26,288 
Total segment assets/liabilities including goodwill, interest in associate  
and acquired intangible assets 1,112,654 828,112 132,288 105,189 
Cash and bank balances/borrowings 53,938 41,230 300,656 142,124 
Derivative financial instruments 1,131 1,069 2,196 636 
Other unallocated assets/liabilities 97,193 72,122 183,436 145,636 
Total Group 1,264,916 942,533 618,576 393,585 
 
Additions to  
non-current assets  
Depreciation and 
amortisation 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Process Safety 4,480 71,846 7,651 6,743 
Infrastructure Safety 70,542 28,995 9,806 8,490 
Medical 168,172 13,403 17,367 15,509 
Environmental & Analysis 8,645 5,499 9,336 9,708 
Total segment additions/depreciation and amortisation 251,839 119,743 44,160 40,450 
Unallocated 700 513 738 461 
Total Group 252,539 120,256 44,898 40,911 
1 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued 
Segment assets and liabilities 
Other segment information 
120 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
119 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Non-current asset additions comprise acquired and purchased goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. 
An impairment loss of £nil was recognised during the year (2015: £236,000 within Environmental & Analysis). 
The Group’s revenue from external customers (by location of customer) and its non-current assets by geographic location are 
detailed below: 
Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, interest in associate and property, plant and equipment.  
No single customer accounts for more than 2% of the Group’s revenue.  
Basic earnings per ordinary share are calculated using the weighted average of 378,412,359 shares in issue during the year (net 
of shares purchased by the Company and held as Own shares) (2015: 378,328,541). Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated 
using the weighted average of 378,412,359 shares (2015: 378,475,804), which includes dilutive potential ordinary shares of nil (2015: 
147,263). Dilutive potential ordinary shares were calculated from those exercisable share options where the exercise price is less than 
the average price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. 
Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from continuing operations excluding the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; 
acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; and the associated taxation thereon. The Directors consider that adjusted 
earnings represent a more consistent measure of underlying performance. A reconciliation of earnings and the effect on basic earnings 
per share figures is as follows: 
  
 Revenue by destination Non-current assets 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
United States of America 272,933 223,374 527,903 337,278 
Mainland Europe 179,290 167,363  203,646 151,805 
United Kingdom 144,821 138,312  111,697 112,550 
Asia Pacific 124,992 116,842  33,002 33,750 
Africa, Near and Middle East 55,712 44,037  – – 
Other countries 30,057 36,206  48 37 
 807,805 726,134 876,296 635,420 
   Per ordinary share 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
pence 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
pence 
Earnings from continuing operations 108,841 104,001 28.76 27.49 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (after tax) 16,102 14,121 4.26 3.73 
Acquisition transaction costs (after tax) 2,941 1,423 0.78 0.38 
Release of fair value adjustments to inventory (after tax) 998 474 0.26 0.13 
Adjustments to contingent consideration (after tax) 1,315 (1,162) 0.35 (0.31) 
Profit on disposal of operations (after tax) (556) (945) (0.15) (0.25) 
Adjusted earnings 129,641 117,912 34.26 31.17 
1 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued 
Geographic information 
Information about major customers 
2 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
120 
 
The Board uses certain non-GAAP measures to help it effectively monitor the performance of the Group. These measures include 
Return on Total Invested Capital, Return on Capital Employed, Organic growth at constant currency, Adjusted operating profit and 
Adjusted operating cash flow. 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; and profit or loss on disposal of operations. 
** Includes goodwill amortised prior to 3 April 2004 and goodwill taken to reserves. 
  
 
2 April 
 2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Post-tax profit before adjustments* 129,641 117,912 
Total shareholders’ funds 646,340 548,948 
Add back retirement benefit obligations 52,323 66,790 
Less associated deferred tax assets (9,619) (13,085) 
Cumulative amortisation of acquired intangible assets 112,478 83,958 
Historical adjustments to goodwill** 89,549 89,549 
Total Invested Capital 891,071 776,160 
Average Total Invested Capital 833,616 721,255 
Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) 15.6% 16.3% 
 
2 April 
 2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Operating profit before adjustments*, but after share of results of associate 173,066 158,564 
Computer software costs within intangible assets 3,215  2,835 
Capitalised development costs within intangible assets 23,540  15,865 
Other intangibles within intangible assets 903  450 
Property, plant and equipment 96,562  86,303 
Inventories 105,318  79,734 
Trade and other receivables 183,619  156,464 
Trade and other payables (122,791) (102,717) 
Current provisions (4,437) (11,746) 
Net tax liabilities (14,968) (12,385) 
Non-current trade and other payables (10,153) (3,756) 
Non-current provisions (18,510) (1,549) 
Add back contingent purchase consideration 17,075 9,650 
Capital Employed 259,373 219,148 
Average Capital Employed 239,261 204,428 
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 72.3% 77.6% 
3 NON-GAAP MEASURES 
Return on Total Invested Capital 
Return on Capital Employed 
122 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
121 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Organic growth measures the change in revenue and profit from continuing Group operations. At the year end, the method for 
calculating organic growth was changed. The revised method equalises the effect of acquisitions by: 
i. removing from the year of acquisition their entire revenue and profit before taxation, and 
ii. in the following year, removing the revenue and profit for the number of months equivalent to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year. 
The resultant effect is that the acquisitions are removed from organic results for one full year of ownership.  
The results of disposals are removed from the prior period reported revenue and profit before taxation. The effects of currency changes 
are removed through restating the current year revenue and profit before taxation at the prior year exchange rates. Organic growth at 
constant currency has been calculated as follows: 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; and profit or loss on disposal of operations. 
* See Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
 Revenue 
 Adjusted profit* 
before taxation 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
 
% growth 
 53 weeks to 
2 April 
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
 
% growth 
Continuing operations 807,805 726,134   166,014 153,618  
Acquired and disposed revenue/profit (27,070) (1,124)   (4,376) 64  
Organic growth  780,735 725,010 7.7%  161,638 153,682 5.2% 
Constant currency adjustment (14,466)    (2,725) –  
Organic growth at constant currency 766,269 725,010 5.7%  158,913 153,682 3.4% 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Operating profit 142,943 137,063 
Add back:     
Acquisition items 7,179 1,483 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 23,103 19,954 
Adjusted operating profit 173,225 158,500 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Net cash from operating activities (note 25) 149,273 137,231 
Add back:     
Taxes paid 27,186 30,824 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2,364 1,411 
Proceeds from sale of capitalised development costs 166 – 
Share awards vested not settled by own shares* 2,478 – 
Less:     
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (22,418) (22,164) 
Purchase of computer software and other intangibles (2,204) (1,403) 
Development costs capitalised (8,579) (7,213) 
Adjusted operating cash flow 148,266 138,686 
Cash conversion % (adjusted operating cash flow/adjusted operating profit) 86% 87% 
3 NON-GAAP MEASURES continued 
Organic growth  
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusted operating cash flow 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
122 
 
Profit before taxation comprises: 
Included within administrative expenses are the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, transaction costs and adjustments to 
contingent consideration. The release of fair value adjustments to inventory is included in direct materials/direct labour. 
  
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Interest receivable 217  134 
Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments –  33 
 217  167 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Interest payable on borrowings 4,104  3,090  
Amortisation of finance costs 561  530  
Net interest charge on pension plan liabilities 2,013  1,419  
Other interest payable 45  28  
 6,723  5,067 
Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 508  – 
Unwinding of discount on provisions 38  46 
 7,269  5,113 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Revenue 807,805 726,134 
Direct materials/direct labour (290,650) (257,231) 
Production overhead (95,218) (85,641) 
Selling costs (107,854) (98,788) 
Distribution costs (17,059) (15,868) 
Administrative expenses (154,081) (131,543) 
Operating profit 142,943 137,063 
Share of results of associate (159) 64 
Profit on disposal of operations 556 1,430 
Net finance expense (7,052) (4,946) 
Profit before taxation 136,288 133,611 
4 FINANCE INCOME 
5 FINANCE EXPENSE 
6 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION  
124 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
123 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
 
* A further £8,579,000 (2015: £7,213,000) of development costs has been capitalised in the year. See note 12. 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) by entity location was: 
  
  
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Profit before taxation is stated after 
charging/(crediting):    
Depreciation  15,245 14,005 
Amortisation  29,653 26,670 
Impairment of internally generated capitalised development costs – 236 
Research and development*  32,651 27,394 
Foreign exchange gain  (1,673) (1,765) 
Profit on disposal of operations  (556) (1,430) 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and computer software (1,345) (590) 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense     388,899  348,170 
Staff costs (note 7)  225,636 199,763 
Auditor’s remuneration Audit services to the Company 201 162 
 Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 756 641 
 Total audit fees 957 803 
    
 Interim agreed upon procedures 19 18 
 Tax compliance services 6 – 
 Tax advisory services 231 133 
 Other services 18 1 
 Total non-audit fees 274 152 
    
 Audit of Group pension plans 16 20 
 Total fees 1,247 975 
    
Operating lease rentals: Property   10,123  8,888  
 Other    770  921  
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
Number 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
Number 
United States of America 1,813 1,609 
Mainland Europe 839 797 
United Kingdom 1,985 1,895 
Asia Pacific 948 1,011 
Other countries 19 16 
 5,604 5,328 
6 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION continued 
7 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
124 
 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) by employee location was: 
Group employee costs comprise: 
The remuneration of the Directors is set out on pages 82 to 90 within the Remuneration Report described as being audited and forms 
part of these financial statements. 
Directors’ remuneration comprises: 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Wages, salaries and fees 3,165 3,063 
Pension costs  12 12 
Share-based payment charge 1,092 1,233 
 4,269 4,308 
 
  
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016 
Number 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
Number 
United States of America 1,802 1,491 
Mainland Europe 815 770 
United Kingdom 1,946 1,947 
Asia Pacific 968 1,064 
Other countries 73 56 
 5,604 5,328 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016 
£000  
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Wages and salaries 185,688 164,581 
Social security costs 25,852 23,429 
Pension costs (note 28) 8,213 7,117 
Share-based payment charge (note 23) 5,883 4,636 
 225,636 199,763 
7 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION continued 
8 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
126 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
125 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
* The comparative has been restated for consistency with the current year disclosure. There is no change to the prior year tax charge. 
*  Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; and profit or loss on disposal of operations. 
 
  
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015*  
£000 
Current tax   
UK corporation tax at 20% (2015: 21%) 9,093 9,397 
Overseas taxation 25,014 24,851 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3,422) (725) 
Total current tax charge 30,685 33,523 
Deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of timing differences (4,833) (4,075) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,595 162 
Total deferred tax credit (3,238) (3,913) 
Total tax charge recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 27,447 29,610 
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate:   
Profit before tax  136,288 133,611 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 21%) 27,258 28,058 
Overseas tax rate differences 9,970 7,562 
Tax incentives, exemptions and credits (including patent box, R&D and High-Tech status) (5,964) (3,675) 
Permanent differences (1,990) (1,772) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,827) (563) 
 27,447 29,610 
Effective tax rate  20.1% 22.2% 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Adjusted* profit before tax  166,014 153,618 
Total tax charge on adjusted* profit 36,373  35,706 
Effective tax rate 21.9% 23.2% 
9 TAXATION 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
126 
 
In addition to the amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised 
directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure: 
In addition to the amounts charged to the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
and Expenditure, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity: 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2016 and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. 
  
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Deferred tax (note 21)   
Retirement benefit obligations 2,304 (6,791) 
Short-term timing differences (209) 23 
 2,095 (6,768) 
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April  
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Current tax   
Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised awards 737 1,044 
Deferred tax (note 21)   
Change in estimated excess tax deductions related to share-based payments 109 291 
 846 1,335 
 Per ordinary share   
 
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
2016  
pence 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
pence 
53 weeks to 
 2 April 
2016  
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Amounts recognised as distributions to shareholders in the year     
Final dividend for the year to 28 March 2015 (29 March 2014) 7.31 6.82 27,629 25,799 
Interim dividend for the year to 2 April 2016 (28 March 2015) 4.98 4.65 18,844 17,600 
 12.29 11.47 46,473  43,399  
Dividends declared in respect of the year       
Interim dividend for the year to 2 April 2016 (28 March 2015) 4.98 4.65 18,844 17,600 
Proposed final dividend for the year to 2 April 2016 (28 March 2015) 7.83 7.31 29,628  27,629 
 12.81 11.96 48,472 45,229 
9 TAXATION continued 
10 DIVIDENDS 
128 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
127 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The Group identifies cash generating units (CGUs) at the operating company level as this represents the lowest level at which cash 
flows are largely independent of other cash flows. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the 
groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
Before recognition of any impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to CGU groups as follows: 
* Sensor Technologies is a new CGU following the acquisition of CenTrak in the year. 
Goodwill values have been tested for impairment by comparing them against the ‘value in use’ in perpetuity of the relevant CGU group. 
The value in use calculations were based on projected cash flows, derived from the latest budget approved by the Board, discounted 
at CGU specific, risk adjusted, discount rates to calculate their net present value.  
 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Cost   
At beginning of year 406,190 335,278 
Additions (note 24) 114,826 53,026 
Exchange adjustments 23,243 17,886  
At end of year 544,259 406,190  
Provision for impairment   
At beginning and end of year – – 
Carrying amounts 544,259 406,190 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Process Safety   
Gas Detection – – 
Bursting Discs  8,157  7,826  
Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring  54,147  51,826  
  62,304  59,652  
Infrastructure Safety   
Fire 48,919 22,711  
Doors, Security and Elevators  67,609  63,912  
 116,528 86,623  
Medical   
Health Optics 157,358 125,581  
Fluid Technology  37,368  34,746  
Sensor Technologies* 67,280 – 
 262,006 160,327  
Environmental & Analysis   
Water  28,757  28,089  
Photonics  61,565  58,931  
Environmental Monitoring  13,099  12,568  
  103,421  99,588  
Total Group 544,259 406,190  
11 GOODWILL  
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
128 
 
The calculation of ‘value in use’ is most sensitive to the following assumptions: 
 CGU specific operating assumptions that are reflected in the budget period for the financial year to March 2017; 
 Discount rates; and 
 Growth rates used to extrapolate risk adjusted cash flows beyond the budget period. 
CGU specific operating assumptions are applicable to the budgeted cash flows for the year to March 2017 and relate to revenue 
forecasts, expected project outcomes and forecast operating margins in each of the operating companies. The relative value ascribed 
to each assumption will vary between CGUs as the budgets are built up from the underlying operating companies within each CGU 
group. A short-term growth rate is applied to the March 2017 budget to derive the cash flows arising in the year to March 2018 
and a long-term rate is applied to these values for the year to March 2019 and onwards, as described below. 
Discount rates are based on estimations of the assumptions that market participants operating in similar sectors to Halma would make, 
using the Group’s economic profile as a starting point and adjusting appropriately. The Directors do not currently expect any significant 
change in the present base discount rate of 10.79% (2015: 9.72%). The base discount rate, which is pre-tax and is based on short-term 
variables, may differ from the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) used in long-term return measures such as ROTIC. Discount rates 
are adjusted for economic risks that are not already captured in the specific operating assumptions for each CGU group. This results in the 
impairment testing using discount rates ranging from 9.86% to 14.00% (2015: 10.10% to 12.91%) across the CGU groups. 
CGU groups to which 10% or more of the total goodwill balance is allocated are deemed to be significant. The assumptions used to 
determine ‘value in use’ for these CGU groups are: 
* Sensor Technologies is a new CGU following the acquisition of CenTrak in the year. 
Short-term growth rates for all CGU groups, with the exception of Sensor Technologies, are based on sectoral organic growth rates 
achieved in the current year, but are capped at the Group’s overall current year organic growth rate to ensure that future uncertainties 
are adequately reflected. Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring CGU is in the Process Safety sector which was impacted by the 
challenging energy market conditions in the year and therefore the short-term growth rate is based on the organic decline for that 
sector; It is expected to improve in the future. Long-term growth rates are capped at the weighted average GDP growth rates of the 
markets that the Group sells into. 
Sensor Technologies is a new CGU in the year following the acquisition of CenTrak. Growth rates are based on forecasts at the 
acquisition date. An average short-term growth rate of 14% per year has been applied over the years to March 2018, trending to an 
average long-term growth rate of 2% thereafter. This reflects the company’s growth strategy of further market penetration into the USA, 
international expansion and, in the longer term, new applications in other sectors.  
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value 
of any unit to exceed its recoverable amount. 
  
Significant CGU groups 
Risk adjusted discount rate Short-term growth rates Long-term growth rates 
2 April  
2016 
28 March 
2015 
2 April  
2016 
28 March 
2015 
2 April  
2016 
28 March 
2015 
Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring 12.29% 11.49% (11.65)% 7.20% 2.33% 2.79% 
Doors, Security and Elevators 12.95% 10.58% 5.18% 7.20% 1.92% 2.15% 
Health Optics 14.00% 12.91% 5.18% 7.20% 2.06% 2.35% 
Photonics 11.26% 11.68% 5.18% (3.26)% 1.86% 2.17% 
Sensor Technologies* 12.93% – 13.7% – 2.31% – 
11 GOODWILL continued 
Key assumptions used in ‘value in use’ calculations 
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN ASSUMPTIONS  
130 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
129 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
1
 Customer and supplier relationship assets are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between three and thirteen years. Within this balance 
individually material balances relate to RCS: £13,996,000 (2015: £15,090,000), Firetrace: £14,010,000 and £15,295,000, Visiometrics: £12,936,000 and 
CenTrak: £10,265,000 and £11,427,000. The remaining amortisation periods for these assets are eight years, twelve years, nine years, ten years and ten years 
respectively. 
2
 Technical know-how assets are amortised over their useful economic lives, estimated to be between three and ten years. Within this balance individually material 
items relate to RCS which has a carrying value of £9,708,000 (2015: £10,466,000) and CenTrak with a carrying value of £24,389,000. The remaining amortisation 
periods for these assets are eight years and ten years respectively. 
3
 Trademarks, brands and patents (which include protected intellectual property) are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between eight and 
ten years. There are no individually material items within this balance. 
4
 Internally generated capitalised development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be three years. There are no individually material 
items within this balance, which comprises capitalised costs arising from the development phase of the R&D projects undertaken by the Group. 
5
 Other intangibles comprise licence and product registration costs amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between three and five years. 
  
 Acquired intangible assets 
Total 
£000 
Internally 
generated 
capitalised 
development 
 costs
4 
£000 
Computer 
software
 
£000 
Other  
intangibles
5 
£000 
Total 
£000  
Customer 
and supplier  
relationship
1 
£000 
Technical 
know- 
how
2 
£000 
Trademarks, 
brands and 
 patents
3 
£000 
Cost                 
At 29 March 2014 111,659 12,356 34,264 158,279 37,228 12,122 363 207,992 
Transfer between category – – – – 225 (21) – 204 
Assets of businesses acquired  20,003  10,194  2,137  32,334  1,196  435  147  34,112  
Assets of business sold – – – – – (263)  – (263)  
Additions at cost – – – – 7,213 1,021 382 8,616 
Disposals and retirements – – – – (465) (385) – (850) 
Exchange adjustments 9,250 2,502 1,134 12,886 90 241 74 13,291 
At 28 March 2015 140,912 25,052 37,535 203,499 45,487 13,150 966 263,102 
Transfer between category – – – – – (16)  – (16)  
Assets of businesses acquired  
(note 24) 63,862 31,296 4,717 99,875  3,600  –   64  103,539 
Additions at cost – – – –  8,579   1,669   535   10,783  
Disposals and retirements – – – – (1,620)  (176)  – (1,796)  
Exchange adjustments 9,010 1,923 2,266 13,199  1,429   427   56   15,111  
At 2 April 2016 213,784 58,271 44,518 316,573  57,475   15,054   1,621  390,723 
Accumulated amortisation         
At 29 March 2014 40,588 6,059 14,677 61,324 24,247 9,312 355 95,238 
Charge for the year 13,425 2,406 4,123 19,954 5,390 1,211 115 26,670 
Impairment loss recognised – – – – 236 – – 236 
Assets of business sold – – – – – (143) – (143) 
Disposals and retirements – – – – (465) (384) – (849) 
Exchange adjustments 2,283 669 (272) 2,680 214 319 46 3,259 
At 28 March 2015 56,296 9,134 18,528 83,958 29,622 10,315 516 124,411 
Charge for the year 15,833 3,317 3,953 23,103 5,020 1,348 182 29,653 
Disposals and retirements – – – – (1,455) (174) – (1,629) 
Exchange adjustments 3,367 568 1,482 5,417 748 350 20 6,535 
At 2 April 2016 75,496 13,019 23,963 112,478 33,935 11,839 718 158,970 
Carrying amounts                 
At 2 April 2016 138,288 45,252 20,555 204,095 23,540 3,215 903 231,753 
At 28 March 2015 84,616 15,918 19,007 119,541 15,865 2,835 450 138,691 
12 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
130 
 
1
 Included within freehold land and buildings is £8,269,000 (2015: £3,497,000) of assets under construction. 
 
  
 Land and buildings Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles  
£000 
 
 
 
Freehold
1 
£000 
Long leases  
£000 
Short leases  
£000 
Total 
£000 
Cost      
At 29 March 2014 34,374 3,320 7,308 125,339 170,341 
Transfer between category – 1,158 (11) (1,351) (204) 
Assets of businesses acquired 366 29 48 1,895 2,338 
Assets of business sold – – (59) (660) (719) 
Additions at cost 4,868 495 2,059 14,742 22,164 
Disposals and retirements (171) (159) (1,617) (9,006) (10,953) 
Exchange adjustments 319 314 245 3,986 4,864 
At 28 March 2015 39,756 5,157 7,973 134,945 187,831 
Transfer between category – – 7 9 16 
Assets of businesses acquired (note 24) – – 79 894 973 
Additions at cost 4,397 123 2,962 14,936 22,418 
Disposals and retirements (444) – (595) (4,312) (5,351) 
Exchange adjustments 1,590 160 277 4,341 6,368 
At 2 April 2016 45,299 5,440 10,703 150,813 212,255 
Accumulated depreciation      
At 29 March 2014 9,505 1,451 5,128 79,840 95,924 
Charge for the year 669 352 818 12,166 14,005 
Assets of business sold – – (28) (283) (311) 
Disposals and retirements (124) (158) (1,606) (8,296) (10,184) 
Exchange adjustments 84 104 144 1,762 2,094 
At 28 March 2015 10,134 1,749 4,456 85,189 101,528 
Charge for the year 679 416 905 13,245 15,245 
Disposals and retirements (158) – (566) (3,632) (4,356) 
Exchange adjustments 391 67 94 2,724 3,276 
At 2 April 2016 11,046 2,232 4,889 97,526 115,693 
Carrying amounts      
At 2 April 2016   34,253 3,208 5,814 53,287 96,562 
At 28 March 2015 29,622 3,408 3,517 49,756 86,303 
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
132 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
131 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
On the 26 August 2015, the Group disposed of 9,176 shares in Optomed Oy (Optomed), representing 8.8% of its ownership interest 
in the associate (see note 29). As one of the largest shareholders, the Group continues to exercise significant influence, but not control, 
over the company and so continues to apply the equity method of accounting for its interest.  
Later during the year another investor exercised an option over outstanding warrants, further diluting the Group’s ownership to 26.7% 
at the year-end as disclosed below. Following the part disposal, Optomed continues to be classified as an investment in associate and 
therefore, as required by IAS 28, following this transaction the Group did not remeasure the carrying value of its investment. 
*Group eliminations relate to profit on inventory held by the Group on product sold by Optomed. 
Optomed has a 31 December year end. However, results coterminous with the Group’s year end have been included based on the 
Group’s remaining share of the associate. 
Details of the Group’s associate held at 2 April 2016 are as follows: 
The Group owns 95,034 (2015: 104,210) Class A shares in Optomed out of a total of 355,932 (2015: 315,110) shares in issue 
(Class A and B shares). Each A and B share entitles the holder to one vote.  
  
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Interest in associate   
At beginning of the year 4,236 5,088 
Disposal cost of investments (386) (951) 
Exchange adjustments (25) 35 
Group’s share of profit of associate before Group eliminations (103) 64 
At end of year 3,722 4,236 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Aggregated amounts relating to associate   
Total assets 7,488 4,424 
Total liabilities (4,129) (2,530) 
Net assets 3,359 1,894 
Group’s share of net assets of associate 897 626 
   
Total revenue 4,352 3,333 
(Loss)/profit (313) 193 
(Loss)/profit after group eliminations*  (838) 193 
Group’s share of (loss)/profit of associate (103) 64 
Group’s share of (loss)/profit of associate after Group eliminations* (159) 64 
Name of associate Country of incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Principal activity 
Optomed Oy Finland 26.7% Design, manufacture and selling 
14 INTEREST IN ASSOCIATE 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
132 
 
The above is stated net of provision for slow-moving and obsolete stock, movements of which are shown below:  
Previous write-downs against inventory have been reversed as a result of increased sales in certain markets or where previously written 
down inventories have been disposed. 
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their cost of replacement. None of the inventory has 
been pledged as security. 
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
 
  
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Raw materials and consumables 54,936 43,480 
Work in progress 9,907 8,439 
Finished goods and goods for resale 40,475 27,815 
 105,318 79,734 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
At beginning of the year 12,600 10,220 
Amounts reversed against inventories previously impaired and utilisation (789) (307) 
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense  1,248 1,743 
Recognition of provisions for businesses acquired 1,768 653 
De-recognition of provisions for business disposed – (197) 
Exchange adjustments 585 488 
At end of the year 15,412 12,600 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Trade receivables 164,249 141,551 
Allowance for doubtful debts (4,238) (2,802) 
 160,011 138,749 
Other receivables 7,508 5,293 
Prepayments 16,023 12,083 
Accrued income 77 339 
 183,619 156,464 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
At beginning of the year 2,802 2,353 
Net impairment loss recognised  1,494 923 
Amounts recovered against trade receivables previously written down (828) (641) 
Recognition of provisions for businesses acquired 649 151 
De-recognition of provisions for business disposed – (3) 
Exchange adjustments 121 19 
At end of the year 4,238 2,802 
15 INVENTORIES 
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
134 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
133 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Impairment charges are recorded against the trade receivables which the Group believes may not be recoverable. In the case of trade 
receivables that are past due, management makes an assessment of the risk of non-collection, taking into account factors such as 
previous default experience, any disputes or other factors delaying payment and the risk of bankruptcy or other failure of the customer 
to meet their obligations. For trade receivables that are not past due, taking into account good historical collection experience, 
management records an impairment charge only where there is a specific risk of non-collection. 
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items. 
There is no impairment risk identified with regards to prepayments and accrued income or other receivables where no amounts are 
past due. 
The ageing of trade receivables was as follows: 
Of loan notes falling due after more than one year £242,000 relate to loan notes arising on the acquisition of Advanced. The remainder 
relate to the issue of loan notes following a United States Private Placement in the year. See note 26. 
Information concerning the security, currency, interest rates and maturity of the Group’s borrowings is given in note 26. 
  
 Gross trade receivables 
Trade receivables net 
of doubtful debts 
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Not yet due 120,236 105,649 119,773 105,463 
Up to one month overdue 26,125 22,178 26,101 22,054 
Up to two months overdue 6,387 4,413 6,210 4,346 
Up to three months overdue 3,746 1,999 3,180 1,861 
Over three months overdue 7,755 7,312 4,747 5,025 
 164,249 141,551 160,011 138,749 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Trade payables 68,049 57,633 
Other taxation and social security 4,998 4,673 
Other payables 4,737 2,888 
Accruals 38,204 34,508 
Deferred income 6,679 2,891 
Deferred government grant income 124 124 
 122,791 102,717 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Loan notes falling due within one year 336 – 
Overdrafts 4,412 1,705 
Total borrowings falling due within one year 4,748 1,705 
Unsecured loan notes falling due after more than one year 172,112 657 
Unsecured bank loans falling due after more than one year 123,796 139,762 
Total borrowings falling due after more than one year 295,908 140,419 
 300,656 142,124 
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued 
17 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES: FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 
18 BORROWINGS 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
134 
 
Provisions are presented as: 
 
*  Comprises £21,990,000 contingent purchase consideration arising on the acquisitions of Visiometrics (£21,345,000), and VAS (£645,000) and £1,000,000 of 
other current provisions acquired. See note 24. 
The provision at the beginning of the year comprised £9,484,000 falling due within one year and £166,000 falling due after one year. 
The additional provision charged in the year related mainly to a change in the contingent consideration on the Advanced acquisition 
from £3,356,000 to £4,183,000. The £16,725,000 utilisation relates mainly to settling the £4,183,000 Advanced consideration in cash 
and loan notes, a payment of £6,001,000 in full and final settlement of the contingent consideration for MST and £6,558,000 paid into 
escrow in relation to the Visiometrics acquisition (see note 24). The £111,000 release of provision related mainly to a revision to the 
estimate for the third earn out payment for the acquisition of ASL from £197,000 to £86,000.  
Of the closing total provision of £17,075,000, £86,000 is due within one year for the acquisition of ASL. Of the balance due after more 
than one year, £704,000 relating to VAS and £1,136,000 relating to Visiometrics is due within one to two years and the remainder, 
relating to Visiometrics, is payable annually for four years thereafter.  
Dilapidations and empty property provisions exist where the Group has lease contracts under which the unavoidable costs of meeting 
its obligations under the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under them. The provisions comprise the 
Directors’ best estimates of future payments: 
a) to restore the fabric of buildings to their original condition where it is a condition of the leases prior to return of the properties; and 
b) on vacant properties, the rental costs of which are not expected to be recoverable from subleasing the properties.  
These commitments cover the period from 2016 to 2028 though they predominantly fall due within five years. 
Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and 
included within the Group companies’ standard terms and conditions. Warranty commitments cover a period of between one and five 
years and typically apply for a 12-month period. The provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the Group’s liability based on 
past experience.  
  
 
2 April  
2016  
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Current 4,437 11,746 
Non-current 18,510 1,549 
 22,947 13,295 
 
Contingent 
purchase 
consideration 
£000 
Dilapidations 
and empty 
property 
£000  
Product 
warranty 
£000 
Legal, 
contractual  
and other  
£000 
 
Total 
£000 
At beginning of the year 9,650 1,379 2,166 100 13,295 
Unwinding of discount 38 – – – 38 
Additional provision in the year 843 448 1,275 51 2,617 
Arising on acquisition* 21,990 52 948 – 22,990 
Utilised during the year (16,725) (33) (173) (15) (16,946) 
Released during the year (111) (111) (351) (54) (627) 
Exchange adjustments 1,390 30 158 2 1,580 
At end of the year 17,075 1,765 4,023 84 22,947 
19 PROVISIONS 
Contingent purchase consideration 
Dilapidations and empty property  
Product warranty 
136 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
135 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Legal, contractual and other provisions comprise mainly amounts reserved against open legal and contractual disputes. The Company 
has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions 
are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, 
taking into account professional advice received, and represent Directors’ best estimate of the likely outcome. The timing of utilisation 
of these provisions is frequently uncertain reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and 
negotiations. Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations. 
Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these reserves are shown as current. 
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against Group companies unless 
the Directors, taking into account professional advice received, assess that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be 
successful.  
 
 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Other payables 931 720 
Accruals 825 302 
Deferred income 7,656 1,869 
Deferred government grant income 741 865 
  10,153 3,756 
 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations  
£000 
Acquired 
intangible 
assets  
£000 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation  
£000 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£000  
Share- 
based 
payment  
£000 
Goodwill 
timing 
differences  
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 28 March 2015 13,085 (35,066) (5,519) 356 2,330 1,548 (23,266) 
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated 
Income Statement (1,162) 6,989 (514) 785 200 (3,060) 3,238 
(Charge)/credit to  
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income (2,304) – – 209 – – (2,095) 
Credit to equity – – – – 109 – 109 
Acquired (note 24) – (36,468) (62) (581) – 13,242 (23,869) 
Exchange adjustments – (2,629) (231) (18) – 833 (2,045) 
At 2 April 2016 9,619 (67,174) (6,326) 751 2,639 12,563 (47,928) 
 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations  
£000 
Acquired 
intangible 
assets  
£000 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation  
£000 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£000  
Share- 
based 
payment  
£000 
Goodwill 
timing 
differences  
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 29 March 2014 7,372 (28,493) (5,336) (375) 2,066 2,316 (22,450) 
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated 
Income Statement (1,078) 5,831 355 60 (27) (1,228) 3,913 
Credit/(charge) to  
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 6,791 – – (23) – – 6,768 
Credit to equity – – – – 291 – 291 
Acquired  – (9,020) (70) – – – (9,090) 
Exchange adjustments – (3,384) (468) 694 – 460 (2,698) 
At 28 March 2015 13,085 (35,066) (5,519) 356 2,330 1,548 (23,266) 
19 PROVISIONS continued 
Legal, contractual and other 
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES: FALLING DUE AFTER ONE YEAR 
21 DEFERRED TAX 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
136 
 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
financial reporting purposes: 
Movement in net deferred tax liability: 
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 20% from 21% with effect from 1 April 2015. Further reductions in the UK corporation 
tax rate to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and 18% (effective from 1 April 2020) were substantively enacted in the UK Finance 
(No.2) Act 2015.  
It is likely that the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption such that no UK tax would 
be due upon remitting those earnings to the UK. However, £29,155,000 (2015: £19,422,000) of those earnings may still result in a tax 
liability, principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. 
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £3,192,000 (2015: £3,399,000) of which only £660,000 has been provided as the 
Group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. 
Temporary timing differences in connection with the interest in associate are insignificant. 
At 2 April 2016 the Group had unused capital tax losses of £155,000 (2015: £479,000) for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised. 
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 2 April 2016 was 379,645,332 (2015: 379,645,332), including treasury shares of 940,421 
(2015: 1,371,785) and shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust of 311,444 (2015: nil). 
 
  
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Deferred tax liability (92,352) (51,862) 
Deferred tax asset 44,424 28,596 
Net deferred tax liability (47,928) (23,266) 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At beginning of year (23,266) (22,450) 
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated Income Statement:   
 UK (1,407) (1,147) 
 Overseas 4,645 5,060 
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (2,095) 6,768 
Credit to equity 109 291 
Acquired (note 24) (23,869) (9,090) 
Exchange adjustments (2,045) (2,698) 
At end of year (47,928) (23,266) 
 Issued and fully paid 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Ordinary shares of 10p each 37,965 37,965 
21 DEFERRED TAX continued 
22 SHARE CAPITAL 
138 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
137 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The total cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of share-based payment plans (the ‘employee share plans’) 
was as follows: 
The Group has recorded liabilities of £1,130,000 (2015: £340,000) in respect of the cash-settled portion of the awards granted under 
the performance share plan. 
Shares awarded under this Plan are purchased in the market by the Plan’s trustees at the time of the award and are held in trust until 
their transfer to qualifying employees; vesting is conditional upon completion of three years’ service. The costs of providing this Plan 
are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the three-year vesting period. 
The PSP was approved by shareholders on 3 August 2005 and replaced the previous share option plans. During the year the PSP  
was replaced with the Executive share plan. 
Awards made under this Plan vest after three years on a sliding scale subject to the Group’s relative Total Shareholder Return against 
the FTSE 250 excluding financial companies, combined with an absolute Return on Total Invested Capital measure. Awards which do 
not vest, lapse on the third anniversary of their award. 
A summary of the movements in share awards granted under the PSP is as follows: 
The weighted average share price at the date of awards vesting during the year was 759.0p (2015: 585.8p). 
The performance shares outstanding at 2 April 2016 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 11 months (2015: 1.4 years). 
During the year ended 2 April 2016 the Group introduced the ESP in which Executive directors and certain senior employees 
participate. 
Awards made under this Plan are either performance awards or deferred awards. Performance awards vest after three years based on 
Earnings Per Share and Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) targets, and after two or three years for deferred share awards based 
on the continuing service of the employee only. Awards which do not vest, lapse on the second or third anniversary of their grant. 
786,805 share awards were granted on 31 July 2015 at an option price of £nil. 12,876 awards lapsed during the year and, 982 awards 
vested. 772,947 shares were outstanding at the year end. 
 
 53 weeks to 2 April 2016 52 weeks to 28 March 2015 
 
Equity-
settled 
£000  
Cash- 
settled  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Equity- 
settled  
£000 
Cash- 
settled  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Share incentive plan 724 – 724 570 – 570 
Performance share plan 3,522 1,302 4,824 3,828 238 4,066 
Executive share plan 323 12 335 – – – 
 4,569 1,314 5,883 4,398 238 4,636 
 
2016 
Number of 
shares 
awarded 
2015 
Number of 
shares 
 awarded  
Outstanding at beginning of year 3,111,344 3,587,492 
Granted during the year – 1,077,286 
Vested during the year (pro-rated for ‘good leavers’) (867,910) (983,228) 
Lapsed during the year (386,171) (570,206) 
Outstanding at end of year 1,857,263 3,111,344 
Exercisable at end of year – – 
23 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
Share incentive plan 
Performance share plan (PSP) 
Executive share plan (ESP) 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
138 
 
The fair value of the awards was calculated using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of meeting the market-
based performance conditions, which, until the current year, attached to half of the award, using the following assumptions: 
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. 
Awards under the above plans are normally settled in shares but may be settled in cash at the Board’s discretion or where required by 
local regulations. Cash settled awards follow the same vesting conditions as the plans under which they are awarded.  
In accounting for acquisitions, adjustments are made to the book values of the net assets of the companies acquired to reflect their fair 
values to the Group. Acquired inventories are valued at fair value adopting Group bases and any liabilities for warranties relating to past 
trading are recognised. Other previously unrecognised assets and liabilities at acquisition are included and accounting policies are 
aligned with those of the Group where appropriate. 
The Group made four acquisitions during the year: Value Added Solutions LLC (VAS); Firetrace USA, LLC (Firetrace); Visiometrics, S.L. 
(Visiometrics); and CenTrak Inc. (CenTrak).  
The four acquisitions in the year contributed £21,798,000 of revenue and £3,128,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 2 April 2016. 
If these acquisitions had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated the Group’s reported revenue and profit after tax 
would have been £38,362,000 and £5,565,000 higher respectively. 
The combined fair value adjustments made for all acquisitions, excluding acquired intangible assets recognised and deferred 
tax thereon, resulted in net adjustments to goodwill of negative £3,262,000. 
Below are summaries of the assets and liabilities acquired and the purchase consideration of: 
a) The total of VAS, Firetrace, Visiometrics and CenTrak;  
b) VAS, on a stand-alone basis; 
c) Firetrace, on a stand-alone basis;  
d) Visiometrics, on a stand-alone basis; and 
e) CenTrak, on a stand-alone basis.  
Due to their contractual dates, the fair value of receivables acquired (shown below) approximate to the gross contractual amounts 
receivable. The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.  
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with paragraph 23 of IFRS 3 (revised). 
£919,000 and £17,297,000 of goodwill arising on the acquisitions of VAS and Firetrace respectively are expected to be deductible 
for tax purposes. 
 
As at the date of approval of the financial statements, the acquisition accounting for VAS and all prior year acquisitions is complete. 
Other than VAS, the accounting for certain balances on current year acquisitions is provisional. These balances mainly comprise the 
valuation of CenTrak’s acquired intangible assets, as a result of the proximity of its acquisition date to the year end, and the initial 
considerations which are subject to the net tangible asset adjustments and other contractual clauses being agreed. 
 
 2016 2015 2014 
Expected volatility (%) – 21% 24% 
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 
Share price on date of grant (p) 757.0 569.9 568.5 
Option price (p) Nil Nil Nil 
Fair value per option (%) 100% 62.4% 63.2% 
Fair value per option (p) 745.2 355.9 359.3 
Awarded under ESP PSP PSP 
23 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 
Cash settled 
24 ACQUISITIONS  
 
140 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
139 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
* Estimate in respect of net tangible asset and cash adjustments, and other contractual clauses. 
Analysis of cash outflow in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
* The £10,246,000 comprises £368,000 loan notes and £9,878,000 contingent purchase consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions, of which 
£9,419,000 had been provided in the prior year’s financial statements. 
 
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 2,233 101,306 103,539 
Investment 14 (14) – 
Property, plant and equipment 742 231 973 
Deferred tax 354 148 502 
Current assets    
Inventories 12,941 4,146 17,087 
Trade and other receivables 12,410 (512) 11,898 
Cash and cash equivalents 1,830 – 1,830 
Total assets 30,524 105,305 135,829 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables (9,984) 4 (9,980) 
Provisions (128) (872) (1,000) 
Corporation tax (2) 2 – 
Non-current liabilities    
Other payables (5,578) 5 (5,573) 
Deferred tax – (24,371) (24,371) 
Total liabilities (15,692) (25,232) (40,924) 
Net assets of businesses acquired 14,832 80,073 94,905 
    
Initial cash consideration paid (VAS, Firetrace, Visiometrics and CenTrak)   187,601 
Initial consideration repayable*   (846) 
Additional consideration payable*   986 
Contingent purchase consideration paid into escrow   6,558 
Contingent purchase consideration estimated to be paid (VAS and Visiometrics)   15,432 
Total consideration   209,731 
    
Goodwill arising on current year acquisitions   114,826 
53 weeks to 
2 April 
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Initial cash consideration paid 187,601 90,828 
Cash acquired on acquisitions (1,830) (9,619) 
Contingent consideration paid in relation to current year acquisitions 6,558 2,601 
Contingent consideration paid and loan notes repaid in cash in relation to prior year acquisitions* 10,246 3,933 
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions (per Consolidated Cash Flow Statement) 202,575 87,743 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued 
(A) Total of VAS, Firetrace, Visiometrics and CenTrak 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
140 
 
The Group acquired the entire interest in Value Added Solutions, LLC on 19 May 2015 for an initial cash consideration of US$5,000,000 
(£3,228,000). The maximum contingent consideration payable is US$1,500,000 (£968,000). The current provision of US$1,000,000 
(£645,000) represents the fair value of the estimated payable based on performance to date and the expectation of future cash flows. 
The contingent consideration is payable based on annualised gross margin for an eighteen month performance period to 1 October 
2016. 
VAS forms part of the Medical sector and operates as a ‘bolt-on’ to Diba Industries Inc. (Diba). Diba creates innovative fluid handling 
solutions that are invaluable to device OEMs, while VAS specialises in precision plastic machining, production of thermally bonded 
manifolds, and fluid component integrations. VAS adds complementary expertise, capabilities, and products that allow Diba to provide 
broader solutions to its existing customers, as well as expand its customer base. VAS’s production facility is located in Berlin, 
Connecticut USA, approximately one hour from Diba’s headquarters.  
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer related 
intangibles of £1,451,000; and technology related intangibles of £432,000; with residual goodwill arising of £1,576,000. The goodwill 
represents:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to leverage this expertise across some of Halma’s businesses; and  
c) the ability to exploit the Group’s existing customer base. 
The VAS acquisition contributed £1,460,000 of revenue and £131,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 2 April 2016.  
If this acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit 
after tax would have been £322,000 and £11,000 higher respectively. 
 
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 2 1,881 1,883 
Property, plant and equipment 26 212 238 
Current assets    
Inventories 22 7 29 
Trade and other receivables 193 (11) 182 
Total assets 243 2,089 2,332 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables (27) (6) (33) 
Provisions – (2) (2) 
Non-current liabilities    
Other payables (5) 5 – 
Total liabilities (32) (3) (35) 
Net assets of businesses acquired 211 2,086 2,297 
    
Initial cash consideration paid   3,228 
Contingent purchase consideration estimated to be paid   645 
Total consideration   3,873 
    
Goodwill arising on acquisition   1,576 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued  
(B) Value Added Solutions, LLC. 
 
142 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
141 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
On 5 October 2015 the Group acquired the entire interest in Firetrace USA, LLC and its subsidiary companies for a total cash 
consideration of US$110,000,000 (£72,675,000), adjustable based on the closing date net assets. The adjustment was determined to 
be US$nil. No contingent consideration is payable. It is estimated that US$919,000 (£607,000) of this consideration will be repaid.  
Firetrace, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, USA, designs and manufactures automatic fire detection and suppression systems for 
installation in small enclosed environments to protect people and critical assets. It will continue to operate out of its current facilities and 
existing management will remain in place. Firetrace has become part of the Infrastructure Safety sector and further extends the Group’s 
product offering within the fire protection industry.  
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer related 
intangibles of £28,686,000; technology related intangibles of £3,861,000; and trademarks, brands and patents of £4,715,000 with 
residual goodwill arising of £24,348,000. The residual goodwill represents:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) future business from new customers; and  
c) the opportunity to develop new technologies and products to support future growth. 
The Firetrace acquisition contributed £15,257,000 of revenue and £2,404,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 2 April 2016. If this 
acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after tax would 
have been £11,444,000 and £2,978,000 higher respectively. 
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 1,784 35,479 37,263 
Property, plant and equipment 342 55 397 
Current assets    
Inventories 7,721 2,768 10,489 
Trade and other receivables 5,405 (518) 4,887 
Cash and cash equivalents 107 – 107 
Total assets 15,359 37,784 53,143 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables (2,064) 20 (2,044) 
Provisions (50) (700) (750) 
Non-current liabilities    
Deferred tax – (2,629) (2,629) 
Total liabilities (2,114) (3,309) (5,423) 
Net assets of businesses acquired 13,245 34,475 47,720 
    
Initial cash consideration paid   72,675 
Initial consideration repayable   (607) 
Total consideration   72,068 
    
Goodwill arising on acquisition   24,348 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued  
(C) Firetrace USA, LLC. 
  
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
142 
 
On 16 December 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capitals of Visiometrics S.L., located outside Barcelona, Spain, and Visual 
Performance Diagnostics, Inc.,located in California, USA, collectively Visiometrics. Initial consideration paid for the company was 
€18,000,000 (£13,144,000) adjustable for the final agreed value of net tangible assets and cash at closing, for which €327,000 
(£239,000) is owed to the Group at the balance sheet date.  
€9,000,000 (£6,558,000) was paid on closing into escrow; €6,300,000 to be released to the vendors immediately on reaching 
€2,000,000 EBITDA in any 12 month period ending December 2016 (the EBITDA Reserve Goal); and the remaining €2,700,000, less 
any indemnity claim, released to the vendors in March 2018 dependent on reaching the EBITDA Reserve Goal. Management’s current 
best estimate is that the EBITDA Reserve Goal will be met. Further contingent consideration is payable based on two elements; Royalty 
and the Core earn-out. The Royalty is payable annually over five years to December 2020 at a percentage of the gross margin on sales 
made to one customer. The estimated payable is €10,242,000 (£7,453,000). The Core earn-out is payable annually over three years to 
December 2018 based on a multiple of EBITDA over a target threshold. The estimated payable for the Core earn-out is €11,114,000 
(£8,088,000). The undiscounted total estimated contingent consideration payable for the EBITDA Reserve Goal, Royalty and Core 
earn-outs is therefore €30,356,000 (£22,099,000).  
The fair value of contingent consideration payable is estimated based on performance observed to date and the expectation of likely 
future cash flows, and is discounted at the Group’s forecast cost of borrowing over the earn-out period. The fair value recognised is 
€29,294,000 (£21,345,000). The maximum contingent consideration payable is €109,000,000 subject to a maximum total 
consideration of €125,000,000. 
Visiometrics designs, manufactures and markets ophthalmic diagnostic instruments. It is part of the Medical sector, which includes 
devices used to assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications. The CEO and management team will continue 
to operate the business out of its current locations.   
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 344 14,582 14,926 
Property, plant and equipment 122 – 122 
Deferred tax 348 – 348 
Current assets    
Inventories 255 (92) 163 
Trade and other receivables 1,030 2 1,032 
Cash and cash equivalents 42 – 42 
Total assets 2,141 14,492 16,633 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables (1,120) (9) (1,129) 
Provisions – (36) (36) 
Corporation tax (2) 2 – 
Non-current liabilities    
Deferred Tax – (3,707) (3,707) 
Total liabilities (1,122) (3,750) (4,872) 
Net assets of businesses acquired 1,019 10,742 11,761 
    
Initial cash consideration paid   13,144 
Initial cash consideration repayable   (239) 
Contingent purchase consideration paid into escrow   6,558 
Contingent purchase consideration estimated to be paid   14,787 
Total consideration   34,250 
    
Goodwill arising on acquisition   22,489 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued  
(D) Visiometrics, S.L. 
144 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
143 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer related 
intangibles of £12,110,000; and technology related intangibles of £2,716,000; with residual goodwill arising of £22,489,000. 
The residual goodwill represents:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to leverage this expertise across some of Halma’s businesses; and 
c) the opportunity to develop new technologies and products to support future growth. 
The Visiometrics acquisition contributed £861,000 of revenue and £260,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 2 April 2016. If this 
acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after tax 
would have been £2,649,000 higher and £45,000 lower respectively. 
On 3 February 2016 the Group acquired the entire share capital of CenTrak, Inc., located in Newtown, Pennsylvania, USA. Initial 
consideration paid for the company was US$140,000,000 (£97,317,000) plus an initial payment for the estimated value of net tangible 
assets and cash at closing of US$1,780,000 (£1,237,000). This was subsequently further increased by US$1,418,000 (£986,000) which 
is owed by the Group at the balance sheet date. No contingent consideration is payable. CenTrak designs and manufactures sensors 
and proprietary communication technology that provides precise and reliable location data for the healthcare market. It is part of the 
Group's Medical sector which includes a range of healthcare device companies serving niche applications in global markets. It will 
continue to operate out of its current facilities and existing management will remain in place. 
  
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 103 49,364 49,467 
Investment 14 (14) – 
Property, plant and equipment 252 (36) 216 
Deferred tax 6 148 154 
Current assets    
Inventories 4,943 1,463 6,406 
Trade and other receivables 5,782 15 5,797 
Cash and cash equivalents 1,681 – 1,681 
Total assets 12,781 50,940 63,721 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables (6,773) (1) (6,774) 
Provisions (78) (134) (212) 
Non-current liabilities    
Provisions (5,573) – (5,573) 
Deferred tax – (18,035) (18,035) 
Total liabilities (12,424) (18,170) (30,594) 
Net assets of businesses acquired 357 32,770 33,127 
    
Initial cash consideration paid   98,554 
Additional consideration payable   986 
Total consideration   99,540 
    
Goodwill arising on acquisition   66,413 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued  
(D) Visiometrics, S.L. continued 
(E) CenTrak, Inc. 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
144 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer related 
intangibles of £21,615,000; and technology related intangibles of £24,287,000; with residual goodwill arising of £66,413,000. 
The residual goodwill represents: 
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to leverage this expertise across some of Halma’s businesses; and  
c) the ability to exploit the Group’s existing customer base. 
The CenTrak acquisition contributed £4,220,000 of revenue and £333,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 2 April 2016. If this 
acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after tax 
would have been £23,947,000 and £2,621,000 higher respectively. 
 
 
  
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Reconciliation of profit from operations to net cash inflow from operating activities:   
Profit on continuing operations before finance income and expense, share of results of associate and profit on 
disposal of operations 142,943 137,063 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15,245 14,005 
Amortisation of computer software 1,348 1,211 
Amortisation of capitalised development costs and other intangibles 5,202 5,505 
Impairment of capitalised development costs – 236 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 23,103 19,954 
Share-based payment expense in excess of amounts paid 1,899 3,803 
Additional payments to pension plans (7,728) (6,560) 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and computer software (1,345) (590) 
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 180,667 174,627 
Increase in inventories (4,809) (1,097) 
Increase in receivables (8,786) (10,656) 
Increase in payables and provisions 7,844 5,801 
Revision to estimate of, and exchange differences arising on, contingent consideration payable 1,543 (620) 
Cash generated from operations 176,459 168,055 
Taxation paid (27,186) (30,824) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 149,273 137,231 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents   
Cash and bank balances 53,938 41,230 
Overdrafts (included in current borrowings) (4,412) (1,705) 
Cash and cash equivalents 49,526 39,525 
24 ACQUISITIONS continued  
(E) CenTrak, Inc. continued 
25 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
146 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
145 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The net cash outflow from bank loans comprised repayments of £97,000,000 offset by drawdowns of £74,788,000.  
The net cash inflow from loan notes comprised £167,473,000 from the drawdown of a United States Private Placement (see note 26), 
and £288,000 from the issue of loan notes in respect of the Advanced acquisition in the prior year, offset by £367,000 repayment of 
existing Advanced loan notes.  
The sum of the above £6,187,000 cash inflow and £1,830,000 net cash acquired is equal to the increase in cash and cash equivalents 
of £8,017,000 in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement. 
The Group’s treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Group’s operations and strategic plans. 
No complex derivative financial instruments are used, and no trading or speculative transactions in financial instruments are undertaken. 
Where the Group does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal operations and its financing. 
Operations are financed mainly through retained profits and, in certain geographic locations, bank borrowings. Foreign currency risk is the most 
significant aspect for the Group in the area of financial instruments. It is exposed to a lesser extent to other risks such as interest rate risk and 
liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these policies are summarised below. The Group’s 
policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the financial year. 
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the bases of recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed 
in the Accounting Policies note.  
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to 
stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the 
borrowings disclosed in note 18 to the Accounts, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. 
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
 
 
At  
28 March 
2015  
£000 
Reclass 
£000 
Cash flow  
£000 
 
Cash 
 acquired  
£000 
Loan notes 
repaid/ 
 (issued) 
£000 
Exchange 
adjustments  
£000 
At  
2 April  
2016  
£000 
Analysis of net debt        
Cash and bank balances  41,230 – 8,894 1,830 – 1,984 53,938 
Overdrafts (1,705) – (2,707) – – – (4,412) 
Cash and cash equivalents 39,525 – 6,187 1,830 – 1,984 49,526 
Loan notes falling due within one  
year – (367) – – 31 – (336) 
Loan notes falling due after more  
than one year (657) 367 – – (167,425) (4,397) (172,112) 
Bank loans falling due after  
more than one year (139,762) – 22,212 – – (6,246) (123,796) 
Total net debt (100,894) – 28,399 1,830 (167,394) (8,659) (246,718) 
25 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Policy 
Capital risk management 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
146 
 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a consequence of both trading with foreign companies and owning subsidiaries 
located in foreign countries. 
The Group earns a significant proportion of its profit in currencies other than Sterling. This gives rise to translational currency risk, where 
the Sterling value of profits earned by the Group’s foreign subsidiaries fluctuates with the strength of Sterling relative to their operating 
(or ‘functional’) currencies. The Group does not hedge this risk, so its reported profit is sensitive to the strength of Sterling, particularly 
against the US Dollar and Euro. The Group also has transactional currency exposures. These arise on sales or purchases by operating 
companies in currencies other than the companies’ operating (or ‘functional’) currency. Significant sales and purchases are matched 
where possible and a proportion of the net exposure is hedged by means of forward foreign currency contracts. 
The Group has significant investments in overseas operations in the USA and EU, with further investments in Australia, New Zealand, 
Singapore, Switzerland, China and India. As a result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ 
exchange rates. Where significant and appropriate, currency denominated net assets are hedged by currency borrowings. These 
currency exposures are reviewed regularly.  
The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and cash deposits. Where bank borrowings are used to finance 
operations they tend to be short term with floating interest rates. Longer-term funding is provided by the Group’s bank loan facilities 
which are at floating rates, or by the Group’s fixed rate United States Private Placement completed in November 2015. 
Surplus funds are placed on short-term fixed rate deposit or in floating rate deposit accounts. 
Credit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss 
from defaults. Credit ratings are supplied by independent agencies where available, and if not available, the Group uses other publicly 
available financial information and its own trading records to rate its major customers. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of 
its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved 
counterparties. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed regularly. 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas. Ongoing credit 
evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover 
is purchased.  
The carrying amount of trade, tax and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and cash of £222,855,000 (2015: 
£186,936,000) represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk as no collateral or other credit enhancements are held. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit 
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.  
The Group has a syndicated revolving credit facility of £360,000,000 with its core group of five banks extending to November 2018. 
In addition, in November 2015 the Group completed a United States Private Placement and issued US$250,000,000 of loan notes on 
6 January 2016 repayable at five, seven and ten year intervals. These facilities are the main sources of long-term funding for the Group. 
The Group has a strong cash flow and the funds generated by operating companies are managed regionally based on  
geographic location.  
Funds are placed on deposit with secure, highly-rated banks. For short-term working capital purposes, most operating companies 
utilise local bank overdrafts. These practices allow a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility. 
Because of the nature of their use, the facilities are typically ‘on demand’ and as such uncommitted. Overdraft facilities are typically 
renewed annually. 
  
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Foreign currency risk 
Interest rate risk 
Credit risk 
Liquidity risk 
148 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
147 
 
It is estimated, by reference to the Group’s US Dollar and Euro denominated profits, that a one per cent change in the value of the 
US Dollar relative to Sterling would have had a £673,000 (2015: £561,000) impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax; and a 
one per cent change in the value of the Euro relative to Sterling would have had a £196,000 (2015: £214,000) impact on the Group’s 
profit before tax for the year ended 2 April 2016. 
The Group has net foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities that are assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional 
currency of the underlying company. These comprise cash and overdrafts as well as certain trade receivable and payable balances. 
These foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement as a result of movement in exchange rates. The exposures are predominantly US Dollar and Euro. Group policy 
is for a significant portion of foreign currency exposures, including sales and purchases, to be hedged by forward foreign exchange 
contracts in the company in which the transaction is recorded.  
The Group’s financial assets which are subject to interest rate fluctuations comprise interest bearing cash equivalents which totalled 
£3,318,000 at 2 April 2016 (2015: £998,000). These comprised Sterling denominated deposits of £115,000 (2015: £92,000), and Euro, 
US Dollar and Renminbi deposits of £3,203,000 (2015: £906,000) which are placed on local money markets and earn interest at market 
rates. Cash balances of £50,620,000 (2015: £40,232,000) earn interest at local market rates. 
The financial liabilities which are subject to interest rate fluctuations comprise bank loans, bank overdrafts, and certain unsecured loans, 
which totalled £128,208,000 at 2 April 2016 (2015: £141,454,000). All bank loans bear interest at floating rates where the fixed period 
is typically no more than three months. Interest rates are based on the LIBOR of the currency in which the liabilities arise plus a small 
margin. Bank overdrafts bear interest at local base rates.  
The loan notes related to the acquisition of Advanced Electronics Limited outstanding at 2 April 2016 attract interest at a fixed rate 
of 1%. The loan notes related to the United States Private Placement attract interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 2.5%. 
The Group’s weighted average interest cost on net debt for the year was 1.99% (2015: 1.80%). 
For the year ended 2 April 2016 it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would reduce the 
Group’s profit before tax by £1,658,000 (2015: £1,675,000).  
  
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Analysis of interest bearing financial liabilities   
Sterling denominated bank loans 35,000 132,000 
US Dollar denominated bank loans 80,634 – 
Swiss Franc denominated bank loans 8,162 7,762 
Total bank loans 123,796 139,762 
Overdrafts (principally Sterling and US Dollar denominated) 4,412 1,705 
Sterling denominated loan notes 82,578 657 
US Dollar denominated loan notes 45,070 – 
Euro denominated loan notes 44,800 – 
Total interest bearing financial liabilities  300,656 142,124 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Currency exposures 
Translational exposures 
Transactional exposures  
Interest rate risk profile 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
148 
 
The gross contractual maturities of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities that are neither current nor on demand are as follows. 
 
The Group’s bank loans are revolving credit facilities and the amount and timing of future payments and drawdowns is unknown. 
It is therefore not possible to calculate the interest arising on these loans and we have therefore not disclosed the maturity of the 
gross cash flows (including interest) in relation to these liabilities. 
  
 
One to two 
years 
£000 
Two and five 
years 
£000 
After more 
than five 
years 
£000 
Gross 
maturities 
£000 
Effect of 
discounting/ 
financing 
rates 
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 2 April 2016       
Accruals 147 522 156 825 – 825 
Deferred income 6,579 1,077 – 7,656 – 7,656 
Deferred government grant income 115 47 579 741 – 741 
Other creditors 892 36 3 931 – 931 
Contingent purchase consideration 1,862 15,931 – 17,793 (804) 16,989 
Other provisions 631 475 415 1,521 – 1,521 
Bank loans – 123,796 – 123,796 – 123,796 
Loan notes 4,397 81,103 111,887 197,387 (25,275) 172,112 
 14,623 222,987 113,040 350,650 (26,079) 324,571 
 
One to two 
years 
£000 
Two and five 
years 
£000 
After more 
than five 
years 
£000 
Gross 
maturities 
£000 
Effect of 
discounting/ 
financing 
rates 
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 28 March 2015       
Accruals 246 47 9 302 – 302 
Deferred income 996 873 – 1,869 – 1,869 
Deferred government grant income 124 146 595 865 – 865 
Other creditors 668 52 – 720 – 720 
Contingent purchase consideration 166 – – 166 – 166 
Other provisions 496 634 253 1,383 – 1,383 
Bank loans – 139,762 – 139,762 – 139,762 
Loan notes 662 – – 662 (5) 657 
 3,358 141,514 857 145,729 (5) 145,724 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Maturity of financial liabilities 
150 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
149 
 
Until this year, the Group’s principal source of long-term funding has been its unsecured five-year £360,000,000 revolving credit facility, 
which expires in November 2018.  
On 2 November 2015, the Group completed a United States Private Placement of US$250,000,000. The unsecured loan notes were 
drawn on 6 January 2016 as £82,000,000, €56,000,000 and US$64,000,000 at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 2.5%. 
The loan notes mature at five, seven and ten year intervals. Interest is payable half yearly. 
The Group has additional short-term unsecured and committed US bank facilities of £17,606,000, which mature in November 2018 
and were undrawn at 2 April 2016. 
Other short-term operational funding is provided by cash generated from operations and by local bank overdrafts. These overdraft 
facilities are uncommitted and are generally renewed on an annual or ongoing basis and hence the facilities expire within one year 
or less. 
The Group’s undrawn committed facilities available at 2 April 2016 were £253,810,000 (2015: £237,130,000) of which £nil 
(2015: £16,892,000) matures within one year and £253,810,000 (2015: £220,238,000) between two and five years. 
UK companies have cross-guaranteed £15,305,000 (2015: £17,990,000) of overdraft facilities of which £4,412,000 (2015: £1,538,000) 
was drawn. 
As at 2 April 2016 and 28 March 2015 there were no significant differences between the book value and fair value (as determined 
by market value) of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
The fair value of floating borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are reset to market rates at intervals 
of less than one year.  
Because of the proximity of issue date to the year-end the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate loan notes arising from the United States 
Private Placement is considered to approximate to the carrying value. 
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using readily available 
market data, and represents a level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7. 
The fair value of contingent consideration arising on acquisitions is estimated by discounting the possible future cash flows using 
probability adjusted forecasts for the acquired company, and represents a level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7. 
The fair value is sensitive to the weighting assigned to the expected future cash flows. A change in weighting of 10 percentage points 
towards the higher expectations would result in an increase in the undiscounted estimate of future cash flows of €7,578,000. 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Borrowing facilities 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
  
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 151
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
150 
 
As explained previously, the Group’s policy is to hedge significant sales and purchases denominated in foreign currency using forward 
currency contracts. These instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is typically £nil, and subsequent changes in fair value 
are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement, unless hedge accounted. 
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding as at the year end, which mostly mature within one year 
and therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 12 months: 
The fair values of the forward contracts are disclosed as a £1,131,000 (2015: £1,069,000) asset and £2,196,000 (2015: £636,000) 
liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Any movements in the fair values of the contracts are recognised in equity until the hedge transaction occurs, when gains/losses are 
recycled to finance income or finance expense.  
There was no ineffectiveness arising with regards to forward contracts in a designated cash flow hedge.  
With the exception of currency exposures, the disclosures in this note exclude short-term receivables and payables. 
 
Average exchange 
rate/£ Foreign currency Contract value Fair value 
 
2 April 
2016 
28 March 
2015 
2 April 
2016  
000 
28 March 
2015 
000 
2 April 
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015  
£000 
2 April 
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Forward contracts not in a designated 
cash flow hedge         
US Dollars 1.43 1.51 3,100 4,780 2,169 3,163 (15) (67) 
Euros 1.29 1.34 450 1,881 349 1,407 (11) 34 
Other currencies     4,877 4,721 (4) 87 
     7,395 9,291 (30) 54 
Forward contracts in a designated  
cash flow hedge         
US Dollars 1.50 1.59 7,665 7,313 5,126 4,593 (202) (320) 
Euros 1.33 1.29 18,213 12,289 13,714 9,563 (790) 527 
Czech Koruna – 35.73 – (73,251) – (2,050) – (93) 
Other currencies     3,069 3,282 (43) 265 
     21,909 15,388 (1,035) 379 
Total forward contracts         
US Dollars 1.48 1.56 10,765 12,093 7,295 7,756 (217) (387) 
Euros 1.33 1.29 18,663 14,170 14,063 10,970 (801) 561 
Czech Koruna – 35.73 – (73,251) – (2,050) – (93) 
Other currencies     7,946 8,003 (47) 352 
     29,304 24,679 (1,065) 433 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (328) 180 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure (737) 253 
 (1,065) 433 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Analysis of movement in the Hedging reserve   
Amounts removed from Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and included in Consolidated Income 
Statement during the year (253) (182) 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure (737) 253 
Net movement in the Hedging reserve in the year in relation to the effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (990) 71 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Hedging 
152 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
151 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group enters into 
derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk, including: 
 forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the export of goods to and from the USA, 
Mainland Europe and the UK; and 
 foreign exchange loans to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on translation of the Group’s investment in foreign operations 
which have the Euro, US Dollar and Swiss Franc as their functional currencies. 
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis as described below.  
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to market risks or in the manner in which these risks are managed  
and measured.  
The Group is mainly exposed to the currency of the USA (US Dollar currency) and the currency of Mainland Europe (Euro currency).  
The carrying amount of the Group’s US Dollar and Euro denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date 
are as follows: 
If Sterling increased by 10% against the US Dollar and the Euro, profits before taxation and other equity would decrease as follows: 
The profit sensitivity arises mainly from the translation of overseas profits earned during the year. 10% is the sensitivity rate which 
management assesses to be a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s profit sensitivity has increased 
against the US Dollar and Euro because more of the Group’s profits are earned in these currencies.  
  
  Assets  Liabilities 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
US Dollar 222,750 169,047 71,800 42,793 
Euro 71,512 61,741 18,072 15,488 
  US Dollar  Euro 
 
2 April 
 2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Profit 6,183 5,153 1,796 1,964 
Other equity 13,723 11,478 4,858 4,205 
26 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Market risk 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 153
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
152 
 
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted at 2 April 2016 but not recognised in these accounts amounts to £2,776,000  
(2015: £5,312,000). 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on properties and other equipment. The former expire between April 2016 and 
November 2028 and the latter between April 2016 and July 2022. Only certain property agreements contain an option for renewal 
at rental prices based on market prices at the time of exercise. 
Total payments under non-cancellable operating leases will be made as follows: 
Group companies operate both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The Halma Group Pension Plan and the Apollo 
Pension and Life Assurance Plan (both UK) have defined benefit sections with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. Both 
of these sections had already closed to new entrants in 2002/03 and closed to future benefit accruals for 2014/15. From that date, 
the former defined benefit members joined the existing defined contribution section within the Halma Group Pension Plan.  
Overseas subsidiaries have adopted mainly defined contribution plans, with the exception of three small defined benefit plans  
in the Swiss entities of Medicel AG, Robutec GmbH and Robutec AG (previously Plasticspritzerei AG). 
Total pension costs of £8,213,000 (2015: £7,117,000) recognised in employee costs (note 7), comprise £7,901,000 (2015: £5,616,000) 
related to defined contribution plans and £312,000 (2015: £1,501,000) related to defined benefit plans. 
The amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined contribution plans was £7,901,000 (2015: 
£5,616,000) and represents contributions payable to these plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans. The assets 
of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. Where there are employees who leave 
the plans prior to vesting fully in the contributions, the ancillary contributions payable by the Group may be reduced by the amount 
of forfeited contributions. 
The Group’s significant defined benefit plans are for qualifying employees of its UK subsidiaries. Under the plans, the employees 
are entitled to retirement benefits of up to two thirds of final pensionable salary on attainment of a retirement age of 60, for members 
of the Executive Board, and 65, for all other qualifying employees. No other post-retirement benefits are provided. The plans are 
funded plans. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Halma Group Pension Plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation was 
carried out at 1 December 2014 by Mr Adrian Gibbons, Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation, the related current service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method. The 
projected unit credit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the plan liabilities make allowance for projected earnings. 
Mr Gibbons also carried out the 1 April 2015 actuarial valuation of the Apollo Pension and Life Assurance Plan on the same basis.  
  
 Land and buildings Other 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Within one year 9,095 8,611 396 429 
Within two to five years 19,448 19,495 629 503 
After five years 8,377 6,151 – – 
 36,920 34,257 1,025 932 
27 COMMITMENTS 
Capital commitments 
Commitments under operating leases 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
Defined contribution plans 
Defined benefit plans 
154 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
153 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
An alternative to the projected unit credit method is a valuation on a solvency basis, often estimated using the cost of buying out 
benefits at the balance sheet date with a suitable insurance company. This amount represents the amount that would be required to 
settle the plan liabilities at the balance sheet date rather than the Group continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the plan. The Group 
estimates that this would amount to £450,000,000 (2015: £430,000,000). 
Investigations have been carried out within the past three years into the mortality experience of the Group’s UK defined benefit plans. 
These investigations concluded that the current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality 
rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 
During the year, the mortality tables used to set the mortality assumptions were changed for the UK plans. This had the effect of 
reducing the fair value of the defined benefit obligation by approximately £7,000,000. 
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the UK plan liabilities are set out below: 
 
  
 
2 April  
2016 
28 March 
2015 
29 March 
2014 
Key assumptions used (UK plans):    
Discount rate 3.40% 3.25% 4.40% 
Expected return on plan assets 3.40% 3.25% 4.40% 
Expected rate of salary increases 2.80% 3.00% 3.20% 
Pension increases LPI 2.5% 2.00% 2.20% 2.20% 
Pension increases LPI 3.0% 2.20% 2.50% 2.50% 
Inflation – RPI 2.80% 3.00% 3.20% 
Inflation – CPI 1.80% 2.00% 2.20% 
 
2 April  
2016 
Years 
28 March 
2015 
Years 
29 March 
2014 
Years 
Retiring today:    
 Males 22.5 23.4 23.4 
 Females 24.5 26.0 25.9 
Retiring in 20 years:    
 Males 24.3 25.3 25.2 
 Females 26.4 27.9 27.9 
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on plan liabilities 
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 9.9% 
Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 5.2% 
Rate of salary growth Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 0.3% 
Rate of mortality Increase by one year Increase by 2.8% 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
Mortality assumptions: 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
154 
 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the UK and Swiss defined benefit plans are as follows: 
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure. 
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £2,914,000 (2015: gain of £30,420,000). 
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure since 
the date of transition to IFRSs is £69,000,000 (2015: £78,000,000). 
The amount included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its UK and Swiss defined 
benefit retirement benefit plans is as follows: 
*  At 2 April 2016, the fair value of the obligations and assets of the UK plans were £269,044,000 (2015: £285,751,000) and £218,410,000 (2015: £220,331,000) 
respectively and of the Swiss plans were £5,142,000 (2015: £5,845,000) and £3,453,000 (2015: £4,475,000) respectively. 
Under the current arrangements, cash contributions in the region of £10,700,000 per year will be made for the immediate future with 
the objective of eliminating the pension deficit.  
Movements in the present value of the UK and Swiss defined benefit obligations were as follows: 
 
  
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Current service cost 312 1,501 
Net interest charge on pension plan liabilities 2,013 1,419 
 2,325 2,920 
 
2 April  
2016* 
£000 
28 March 
 2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (274,186) (291,596) (227,358) 
Fair value of plan assets 221,863 224,806 190,509 
Liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet (52,323) (66,790) (36,849) 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At beginning of year  (291,596) (227,358) 
Service cost (312) (1,501) 
Interest cost (9,227) (9,804) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 18,969 (56,830) 
Defined benefit obligations of business acquired (note 24) – (1,256) 
Contributions from plan members (439) (804) 
Benefits paid 8,646 6,116 
Premiums paid – 28 
Foreign exchange (227) (187) 
At end of year (274,186) (291,596) 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
156 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
155 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Movements in the fair value of the UK and Swiss plan assets were as follows: 
The net movement on actuarial gains and losses of the UK and Swiss plans was as follows: 
The analysis of the UK plan assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
The overall expected rate of return is a weighted average. 
In conjunction with the trustees, the Group conducts asset-liability reviews for its defined benefit pension plan. The results of 
these reviews are used to assist the trustees and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the 
structure of the liabilities of the plan. They are also used to assist the trustees in managing the volatility in the underlying investment 
performance and risk of a significant increase in the defined benefit deficit by providing information used to determine the plan’s 
investment strategy.  
As a consequence, the Group is progressively giving more emphasis to a closer return matching of plan assets and liabilities,  
both to ensure the long-term security of its defined benefit commitment and to reduce earnings and balance sheet volatility. 
  
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At beginning of year  224,806 190,509 
Expected return on plan assets 7,214 8,385 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (10,128) 22,035 
Plan assets of business acquired (note 24) – 1,022 
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 8,041 8,060 
Contributions from plan members 439 804 
Benefits paid (8,646) (6,116) 
Premiums paid – (28) 
Foreign exchange 137 135 
At end of year 221,863 224,806 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Defined benefit obligations 18,969 (56,830) 
Fair value of plan assets (10,128) 22,035 
Net actuarial gains/(losses) 8,841 (34,795) 
 Expected rate of return Fair value of assets 
 
2 April  
2016  
% 
28 March 
2015  
% 
29 March 
2014 
% 
2 April 
 2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Equity instruments 3.40 3.25 4.40 111,112 114,314 101,155 
Debt instruments 3.40 3.25 4.40 90,829 89,743 71,451 
Property 3.40 3.25 4.40 16,469 16,274 14,905 
 3.40 3.25 4.40 218,410 220,331 187,511 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
156 
 
The five-year history of experience adjustments was as follows: 
Based on the most recent actuarial valuation, the estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the UK and Swiss plans 
during the year ending 1 April 2017 is £10,700,000. 
The levels of contributions are based on the current service cost and the expected future cash flows of the defined benefit pension 
plans. The Group estimates the plan liabilities on average to fall due over 20 and 24 years, respectively, for the Halma and Apollo plans. 
The total profit on disposal of operations of £556,000 comprises a charge of £34,000 related to the disposal of Monitor Elevator 
Products, Inc. (Monitor) in the prior year arising from a claim under the warranty arrangement, and £590,000 credit for the partial 
disposal of shares in the Group’s associate, Optomed Oy (Optomed) on 26 August 2015. The Group disposed of 9,176 shares 
in Optomed, representing 8.8% of its ownership interest in the associate. Consideration received was €1,236,000 (£907,000). 
The Group’s residual interest in Optomed after the disposal was 28.6%, reducing to 26.7% by the year-end as discussed in note 14.  
The total profit on disposal of operations shown in the prior year of £1,430,000 comprises £1,076,000 for the disposal of Monitor, 
£223,000 for the partial disposal of shares in Optomed and £131,000 for the fair value gain recognised in relation to the disposal 
of PSRM. The £4,248,000 cash inflow represents the £3,180,000, £695,000 and £610,000 proceeds from the sale of the shares 
in Monitor, Optomed, and PSRM respectively plus the £36,000 overdraft in Monitor less the disposal costs of £273,000. Further 
details are provided on page 149 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.  
There were no events after the balance sheet date.  
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
30 March 
2013 
£000 
31 March 
2012 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (274,186) (291,596) (227,358) (223,447) (185,956) 
Fair value of plan assets 221,863 224,806 190,509 176,275 152,959 
Deficit in the plan (52,323) (66,790) (36,849) (47,172) (32,997) 
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities      
Amount 2,709 (4,271) – (246) (224) 
Percentage of plan liabilities  (1)% 1% – – – 
Experience adjustments on plan assets      
Amount  (10,128) 22,031 (30) 10,756 (1,804) 
Percentage of plan assets (5)% 10% – 5% (1)% 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
29 DISPOSAL OF OPERATIONS 
30 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 
158 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Accounts continued  
157 
 
Notes to the Accounts continued 
 
Other related parties comprises one company with a Halma employee on the board and from which the Halma subsidiary rents 
property. All the transactions above are on an arm’s length basis and on standard business terms. 
The remuneration of the Directors and Executive Board members, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set 
out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further information about the 
remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 90. 
 
  
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Associated companies   
Purchases from associated companies  1,254 638 
Amounts due to associated companies 153 161 
Amounts due from associated companies – – 
   
Other related parties   
Rent charged by other related parties  121 113 
Amounts due to other related parties 2 – 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April 
 2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Wages and salaries 5,658 5,212 
Pension costs 180 169 
Share-based payment charge 2,341 1,799 
 8,179 7,180 
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
Trading transactions 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 159
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
158 
 
Company Balance Sheet 
 
 
* See notes C1 and C14 
** Referenced to in prior years as Treasury shares 
The financial statements of Halma plc, company number 00040932, were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2016. 
Director Director 
  
 Notes 
2 April  
2016 
£000  
(Restated*) 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Fixed assets    
Intangible assets C3 60 105 
Tangible assets C4 3,126 3,243 
Investments C5 166,502 163,986 
Deferred tax asset C10 8,016 10,204 
  177,704 177,538 
Current assets    
Debtors (amounts falling due within one year) C6 45,533 44,688 
Debtors (amounts falling due after more than one year) C6 602,135 415,225 
Short-term deposits  92 92 
Cash at bank and in hand  10 174 
  647,770 460,179 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    
Borrowings C7 13,782 10,675 
Creditors C8 41,939 53,316 
Current tax payable  3,443 3,435 
  59,164 67,426 
Net current assets  588,606 392,753 
Total assets less current liabilities  766,310 570,291 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    
Borrowings C7 295,908 140,419 
Retirement benefit obligations C13 35,628 46,741 
Creditors C9 11,827 11,753 
Net assets  422,947 371,378 
Capital and reserves    
Share capital C11 37,965 37,965 
Share premium account  23,608 23,608 
Own shares**  (8,219) (8,450) 
Capital redemption reserve  185 185 
Other reserves  (12,673) (9,999) 
Profit and loss account  382,081 328,069 
Shareholders’ funds  422,947 371,378 
A J WILLIAMS K J THOMPSON  
160 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Company Balance Sheet  
159 
 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
* The purchase of Employee Benefit Trust shares/treasury shares and performance share plan awards vested were shown net in Own shares in prior years, as 
were the share-based payments charge and performance share plan awards vested in Other reserves. The prior year comparative has been adjusted to show 
these gross amounts. There has been no impact on Shareholders’ funds in either year.  
  
 
Share  
capital  
£000 
Share 
premium 
account  
£000 
Own 
 shares  
£000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£000 
Other 
reserves  
£000 
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£000  
Total 
£000 
At 29 March 2015 (restated) 37,965 23,608 (8,450) 185 (9,999) 328,069 371,378 
Profit for the year – – – – – 95,803 95,803 
Other comprehensive income 
and expense:        
Actuarial gains on defined  
benefit pension plan – – – – – 5,926 5,926 
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income – – – – – (1,541) (1,541) 
Total comprehensive income for the 
year – – – – – 4,385 4,385 
Dividends paid – – – – – (46,473) (46,473) 
Share-based payment charge – – – – 2,920 – 2,920 
Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions – – – – 118 – 118 
Excess tax deductions related to 
exercised share awards – – – – – 297 297 
Purchase of Own shares* – – (3,003) – – – (3,003) 
Performance share plan awards 
vested* – – 3,234 – (5,712) – (2,478) 
At 2 April 2016 37,965 23,608 (8,219) 185 (12,673) 382,081 422,947 
At 29 March 2014 (restated) 37,902 22,778 (7,054) 185 (7,316) 292,761 339,256 
Profit for the year (restated) – – – – – 98,330 98,330 
Other comprehensive income  
and expense:        
Actuarial losses on defined  
benefit pension plan – – – – – (25,080) (25,080) 
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income – – – – – 5,005 5,005 
Total comprehensive income for the 
year – – – – – (20,075) (20,075) 
Dividends paid – – – – – (43,399) (43,399) 
Share options exercised 63 830 – – – – 893 
Share-based payment charge – – – – 2,682 – 2,682 
Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions – – – – 82 – 82 
Excess tax deductions related to 
exercised share awards  – – – – – 452 452 
Purchase of Own shares* – – (6,843) – – – (6,843) 
Performance share plan awards 
vested* – – 5,447 – (5,447) – – 
At 28 March 2015 (restated) 37,965 23,608 (8,450) 185 (9,999) 328,069 371,378 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 161
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
160 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts 
 
The separate Company financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis, and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ except for 
the revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. 
Information on the impact of first-time adoption of FRS 101 is given in note C14. 
In the current year the Company has adopted FRS 100 and FRS 101. In previous years the financial statements were prepared in 
accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. This change in the basis of preparation has not materially altered the recognition 
and measurement requirements previously applied in accordance with UK GAAP, other than the accounting for the Company pension 
plan (see note C14). Consequently the principal accounting policies are otherwise unchanged from the prior year. On the change in 
the basis of preparation, the Company has taken advantage of all of the available disclosure exemptions in the financial statements 
permitted by FRS 101. The most significant disclosure exemptions are summarised below. There have been no other material 
amendments to the disclosure requirements previously applied in accordance with UK GAAP. 
As required by FRS 101, the comparatives have been restated. 
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: 
 the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based payment; 
 the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
 paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1; 
 paragraph 73( e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment; 
 paragraph 118( e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets; 
 the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D,111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation 
of Financial Statements; 
 the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows; 
 the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; and  
 the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member. 
In preparing the financial statements, management has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
the Company’s accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various 
other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The most significant area of estimate is determining whether there is impairment of the Company’s investments which requires 
estimation of the investments’ values in use. The value in use calculation requires the Company to estimate the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the investments and apply suitable discount rates in order to calculate present values.  
The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on assessments of future taxable income. 
Transactions in foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising 
from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Profit and Loss Account. 
 
The Company recognises financial instruments when it becomes a party to the contractual arrangements of the instrument. Financial 
instruments are de-recognised when they are discharged or when the contractual terms expire. The Company's accounting policies 
in respect of financial instruments transactions are explained below: 
C1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of preparation 
First time application of FRS 100 and FRS 101 
Financial reporting standard 101 – reduced disclosure exemptions  
Significant accounting judgements and estimates 
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Deferred tax 
Foreign currencies 
Financial Instruments
  
162 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts  
161 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
The Company recognises its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the asset 
was acquired. 
Other than the financial assets in a qualifying hedging relationship, the Company's accounting policy for each category is as follows: 
Fair value through profit or loss – This category comprises only in-the-money derivatives. These are carried in the balance sheet at fair 
value with changes in fair value recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
Loans and receivables – Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market. They arise principally through the provision of goods and services to customers (e.g. trade receivables), 
but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset. They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to their acquisition or issue, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, 
less provision for impairment. 
Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence (such as significant financial difficulties on the part of the 
counterparty or default or significant delay in payment) that the company will be unable to collect all of the amounts due under the terms 
receivable, the amount of such a provision being the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the future 
expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such provisions are 
recorded in a separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within administrative expenses in the Profit and Loss Account. 
On confirmation that the trade receivable will not be collected, the gross carrying value of the asset is written off against the associated 
provision. 
The Company classifies its financial liabilities into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the 
liability was acquired. 
Fair value through profit or loss – These comprise only out-of-the-money derivatives. They are carried in the balance sheet at fair value 
with changes in fair value recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
At amortised cost – Financial liabilities at amortised cost including bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value. Such interest 
bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
The Company has adopted IFRS 2 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Group’s policy. 
This policy is shown on page 115. 
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not 
depreciated, is provided on all fixed assets on the straight-line method, each item being written off over its estimated life. The principal 
annual rates used for this purpose are: 
The costs of operating leases of property and other assets are charged on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. 
 
Freehold property 2% 
Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3% 
C1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 
Financial assets 
Financial liabilities 
Share-based payments 
Investments 
Fixed assets and depreciation 
Leases 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 163
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
162 
 
The Company makes contributions to defined contribution pension plans, which are charged against profits when they become 
payable. The Company also operates a Group-wide defined benefit pension plan. For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability 
recorded in the Company Balance Sheet is the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the present value of the 
defined obligation at that date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately for the plan on an annual basis by an independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the year in which they occur, and are taken to other comprehensive income. 
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of settlements or curtailments, are charged to profit and loss. The unwinding 
of the discounting on the net liability is recognised within finance income or expense as appropriate.  
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable, on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in 
which the temporary differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted 
by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only recognised if recovery is considered more likely than not on the basis of all 
available evidence. 
As permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Profit and Loss Account of Halma plc is not presented as part of 
these accounts. The Company has reported a profit after taxation for the financial year of £95,803,000 (2015: £98,330,000 (restated)). 
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £201,000 (2015: £162,000). 
Total employee costs (including Directors) were: 
 
Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out on pages 82 to 90 within the Remuneration Report and form part of these financial 
statements. 
 
 
53 weeks to  
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to  
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Wages and salaries 5,865 6,539 
Social security costs 683 615 
Pension costs 414 423 
 6,962 7,577 
 
53 weeks to  
2 April  
2016 
 Number 
52 weeks to  
28 March 
2015  
Number 
Number of employees (all in the UK) 48 49 
C1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 
Pensions 
Taxation 
C2 RESULT FOR THE YEAR 
 
164 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts continued  
163 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
* See note C14  
 
Computer 
Software  
£000 
Cost  
At 28 March 2015 (restated*) 827 
Additions at cost 17 
Disposals (46) 
Transfers (21) 
At 2 April 2016 777 
Accumulated depreciation  
At 28 March 2015 (restated*) 722 
Charge for the year 39 
Disposals (46) 
Transfers 2 
At 2 April 2016 717 
Carrying amounts  
At 2 April 2016 60 
At 28 March 2015 105 
 
Freehold 
properties  
£000 
Plant 
equipment 
and vehicles  
£000 
Total  
£000 
Cost    
At 28 March 2015 (restated*) 3,043 1,805 4,848 
Additions at cost – 148 148 
Disposals – (434) (434) 
Transfers – 21 21 
At 2 April 2016 3,043 1,540 4,583 
Accumulated depreciation    
At 28 March 2015 (restated*) 480 1,125 1,605 
Charge for the year 47 214 261 
Disposals – (407) (407) 
Transfers – (2) (2) 
At 2 April 2016 527 930 1,457 
Carrying amounts    
At 2 April 2016 2,516 610 3,126 
At 28 March 2015 2,563 680 3,243 
C3 FIXED ASSETS – INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
C4 FIXED ASSETS – TANGIBLE ASSETS 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 165
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
164 
 
The increase of £2,516,000 comprises £991,000 for the 100% acquisition of Firetrace International Limited (Firetrace), £809,000 
increase in investment in an existing subsidiary, Halma Euro Trading Limited, and an increase of £827,000 in the investment of 
Advanced Electronics Limited, offset by a decrease of £111,000 in the investment of ASL Holdings Limited (ASL). The latter two 
were due to changes in the estimate of contingent considerations payable.  
Name Country Class Group % 
A & G Security Electronics Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Accudynamics, LLC United States Common Stock 100 
Accutome, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Adler Diamant BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
Advanced Electronics Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Advanced Fire Systems Inc. United States Common Stock 100* 
Alicat Scientific, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Analytical Development Company Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Apollo (Beijing) Fire Products Co. Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
Apollo America, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited United Kingdom Ordinary & Deferred Shares 100* 
Apollo GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100 
Aquionics, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
ASL Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Avire Elevator Technology India Pte Ltd India Ordinary & Preference Shares 100 
Avire Elevator Technology Shanghai Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
Avire Global Pte Ltd Singapore Ordinary Shares 100 
Avire Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Avire Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Avire s.r.o. Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100* 
Avo Photonics (Canada) Inc. Canada A & B Shares 100 
Avo Photonics, Inc. United States A & B Preferred Stock & Common Stock 100 
B.E.A. Holdings, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
B.E.A. Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
B.E.A. Investments, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Baoding Longer Precision Pump Co., Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
BEA Electronics (Beijing) Co Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
BEA Japan KK Japan Ordinary Shares 100 
Beijing Ker'Kang Instrument Limited Company China Ordinary Shares 100 
Berson Milieutechniek BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
Bio-Chem Fluidics, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Bureau d'Electronique appliquée S.A. Belgium Ordinary Shares 100 
Castell Interlocks, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Castell Locks Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Castell Safety China Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
Castell Safety International Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Castell Safety Technology Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
CEF Safety Systems BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
CenTrak, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Cosasco Canada Ltd Canada Ordinary Shares 100 
Cosasco Middle East (FZE) UAE Common Stock 100 
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited United Kingdom A & Ordinary Shares 100* 
Diba Industries Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At cost less amounts written off at beginning of year 163,986 142,005 
Increase in investments 2,516 21,981 
At cost less amounts written off at end of year 166,502 163,986 
C5 INVESTMENTS 
Shares in Group companies 
Subsidiaries 
166 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts continued  
165 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
Name Country Class Group % 
Diba Industries, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Diba Japan K.K. Japan Ordinary Shares 100 
Eco Rupture Disc Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Eiffel Investments Ltd Ireland Ordinary Shares 100 
Eiffel Lux S.a.r.l. Luxembourg Ordinary Shares 100 
Elfab Hughes Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Elfab Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
F.I.R.E. Panel, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Fabrication de Produits de Sécurité SaRL Tunisia Ordinary Shares 100 
FFE Holdings Limited United Kingdom Deferred, A & Ordinary Shares 100* 
FFE Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Fiberguide Industries, Inc. United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Fire Fighting Enterprises Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Firetrace Aerospace, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Firetrace Export Corporation United States Common Stock 100 
Firetrace International Asia Pte. Ltd Singapore Ordinary Shares 100 
Firetrace International Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Firetrace USA, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Fluid Conservation Systems, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Fortress Interlocks Limited United Kingdom Ordinary & Preferred Shares 100* 
Fortress Interlocks Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma (China) Group China Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Do Brasil – Equipamentos  
De Segurança Ltda 
Brazil Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Euro Trading Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Halma Financing Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Holding GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Holdings, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma India Private Ltd India Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma International BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma International Limited United Kingdom A & Ordinary Shares 100* 
Halma Investment Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma IT Services Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Halma Overseas Funding Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma PR Services Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Halma Resistors Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Safety Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Halma Saúde e Otica do Brasil – Importação, 
Exportação e Distribuição Ltda  
Brazil Ordinary Shares 100 
Halma Services Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Hanovia Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
HFT Shanghai Co., Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
HWM-Water Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Hydreka SAS France Ordinary Shares 100 
Iso-Lok Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Keeler Instruments, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Keeler Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Kerry Ultrasonics Sdn Bhd Malaysia Ordinary Shares 100 
Kirk Key Interlock Company, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Klaxon Signals Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Labsphere, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Langer Instruments Corporation United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Meadowbridge Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Medicel AG Switzerland A & B Preference & C Ordinary Shares 100 
MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Mistura Systems Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Morley Electronics Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Netherlocks Safety Systems BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
C5 INVESTMENTS continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 167
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
166 
 
Name Country Class Group % 
Netherlocks Safety Systems GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100 
Ocean Optics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
Ocean Optics Asia LLC United States Common Stock 100 
Ocean Optics BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100 
Ocean Optics Germany GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100 
Ocean Optics, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Oklahoma Safety Equipment Co, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Palintest Limited United Kingdom Ordinary & Deferred Shares 100* 
Palmer Environmental Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Palmer Environmental Services Limited United Kingdom A & Ordinary Shares 100* 
Perma Pure India Pte Ltd India Ordinary Shares 100 
Perma Pure, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Pixelteq, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Power Equipment Limited United Kingdom Preference & Ordinary Shares 100* 
Radcom (Technologies) Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Radio-Tech Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
RCS Corrosion Services Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Ordinary Shares 100 
Research Engineers Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Reten Acoustics Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Riester USA, LLC United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Robutec AG Switzerland Ordinary Shares 100 
Robutec Wolfhalden GmbH Switzerland Ordinary Shares 100 
Rohrback Cosasco International Limited British Virgin Islands Ordinary Shares 100 
Rohrback Cosasco System China Corporation China Common Stock 100 
Rohrback Cosasco Systems LLC Saudi Arabia Common Stock 100 
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Pte Ltd Singapore Ordinary Shares 100 
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Shares 100 
Rohrback Cosasco Systems UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
Rohrback Cosasco Systems, Inc United States Common Stock 100 
Rudolf Riester GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100 
S.E.R.V. Trayvou Interverrouillage SA France Ordinary Shares 100 
Sensorex Corporation United States Common Stock 100 
Shanghai Labsphere Optical Equipments Co., Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
Smith Flow Control (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Shares 100 
Smith Flow Control Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Smith Flow Control, Inc. United States Ordinary Shares 100 
Sonar Research & Development Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
SunTech Group EB Trustee Limited United States Ordinary Shares 100 
SunTech Medical (USA), LLC United States Common Stock 100 
SunTech Medical Devices (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd China Ordinary Shares 100 
SunTech Medical Group Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
SunTech Medical Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100 
SunTech Medical Ltd (Hong Kong) Hong Kong Ordinary Shares 100 
SunTech Medical, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Swift 943 Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
T.L. Jones Ltd New Zealand Ordinary Shares 100 
Talentum Developments Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Telegan Gas Monitoring Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Texecom Limited United Kingdom Ordinary Shares 100* 
Thinketron Precision Equipment Company Ltd Hong Kong Ordinary Shares 100 
Value Added Solutions LLC United States Common Stock 100 
Visiometrics S.L. Spain Ordinary Shares 100 
Visual Performance Diagnostics, Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Volk Optical Inc. United States Common Stock 100 
Wilkinson & Simpson Limited United Kingdom Deferred & Ordinary Shares 100* 
* Directly held by the Company 
 
C5 INVESTMENTS continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
 
168 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts continued  
167 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
Derivative financial instruments in the prior year related to a Swiss Franc swap contract. The swap was closed out during year and the 
gain taken to the Profit and Loss Account.  
The Company has two sources of long-term funding, which comprise: 
 an unsecured five-year £360m revolving credit facility, which expires in November 2018 and is therefore classified as expiring within 
two to five years (2015: within two to five years). At 2 April 2016 £236,204,000 (2015: £220,238,000) remained committed and 
undrawn, and 
 unsecured loan notes agreed on 2 November 2015 in a mix of Sterling, US Dollars and Euro with borrowing periods of five, seven 
and ten years. At 2 April 2016 the outstanding loan notes totalled £171,870,000 (2015: £nil). The loan notes are classified as falling 
due after more than one year.  
Further details are included in note 26 to the Group accounts. 
Included in loan notes due after more than one year, is £242,000 (2015: £657,000) of unsecured loan notes issued in respect of the 
Advanced acquisition. These attract interest at 1% and are convertible into cash at par on each anniversary of the acquisition date until 
14 May 2019. The loan notes due within one year were converted into cash at par on 14 May 2016. 
The bank overdrafts, which are unsecured, at 2 April 2016 and 28 March 2015 were drawn on uncommitted facilities which all expire 
within one year, and were held pursuant to a Group pooling arrangement which offsets them against credit balances in subsidiary 
undertakings. 
The Company is part of an arrangement between UK subsidiaries whereby overdraft facilities of £15,305,000 (2015: £17,990,000) 
are cross-guaranteed. Of these facilities £4,412,000 (2015: £64,000) was drawn. 
 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Amounts falling due within one year:   
Amounts due from Group companies 37,545 38,029 
Derivative financial instruments – 129 
Other debtors 2 – 
Prepayments and accrued income 7,986 6,530 
 45,533 44,688 
Amounts falling due after more than one year:   
Amounts due from Group companies 602,135 415,225 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Falling due within one year:   
Overdrafts 13,446 10,675 
Loan notes 336 – 
 13,782 10,675 
Falling due after more than one year:   
Unsecured loan notes 172,112 657 
Unsecured bank loans 123,796 139,762 
 295,908 140,419 
Total borrowings 309,690 151,094 
C6 DEBTORS 
C7 BORROWINGS 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
168 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
The £86,000 contingent consideration payable relates to the final payment for the acquisition of ASL. The payment is due to be 
settled in June 2016. The amounts in the prior year related to the acquisition of Advanced. All outstanding amounts were settled 
during the year. 
The £197,000 provision for contingent consideration in the prior year represented the previous estimate of the amount payable for the 
acquisition of ASL.  
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 2 April 2016 was 379,645,332 (2015: 379,645,332), including treasury shares of 940,421 
(2015: 1,371,785) and 311,444 shares (2015: nil) held by the Employee Benefit Trust. 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Trade creditors 2,011 1,456 
Amounts owing to Group companies 35,117 43,999 
Other taxation and social security 1,009 1,100 
Other creditors 517 515 
Accruals and deferred income 3,199 2,890 
Provision for contingent consideration 86 3,356 
 41,939 53,316 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Amounts owing to Group companies 11,050 11,112 
Provision for contingent consideration – 197 
Other creditors 777 444 
 11,827 11,753 
These liabilities fall due as follows:   
Within one to two years 777 641 
Within two to five years – – 
After more than five years 11,050 11,112 
 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£000 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 29 March 2015 9,344 860 10,204 
(Charge)/credit to Profit and Loss Account  (1,037) 272 (765) 
Charge to Company Statement of Comprehensive Income (1,541) – (1,541) 
Credit to equity – 118 118 
At 2 April 2016 6,766 1,250 8,016 
At 29 March 2014 5,256 685 5,941 
(Charge)/credit to Profit and Loss Account  (917) 93 (824) 
Credit to Company Statement of Comprehensive Income 5,005 – 5,005 
Credit to equity – 82 82 
At 28 March 2015 9,344 860 10,204 
 Issued and fully paid 
 
2 April 
 2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Ordinary shares of 10p each 37,965 37,965 
C8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 
C9 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR 
C10 DEFERRED TAX 
 
C11 SHARE CAPITAL 
170 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts continued  
169 
 
The Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. The Other reserves 
represent the provision being established in respect of the value of equity-settled share awards made by the Company. Own shares 
are ordinary shares in Halma plc purchased by the Company and held to fulfil its obligations under the Group’s share plans. 
The Company participates in, and is the sponsoring employer of, the Halma Group Pension Plan. During the prior year, following 
consultation with members, it was decided that future benefit accruals for existing members would cease. From that date, the former 
defined benefit members joined the Company’s existing defined contribution plan. 
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost within the Group. In accordance with 
IAS 19 (Revised 2011), the Company contribution made to the defined benefit plan during the year ended 2 April 2016 was £2,941.000 
(2015: £2,176,000). 
Current service cost of £nil (2015: £1,038,000) and net interest charge on pension plan liabilities of £1,413,000 (2015: £988,000) 
were recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in respect of the Company defined benefit plan. 
The net movement on actuarial gains and losses of the plan reported in the Company Statement of Comprehensive Income and 
Expenditure was as follows: 
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of £2,783,000 (2015: loss of £26,275,000). 
The amount included in the Company Balance Sheet arising from the Company’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement 
plans is as follows: 
Under the current arrangements, cash contributions in the region of £7,080,000 per year will be made for the immediate future with the 
objective of eliminating the pension deficit.  
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows: 
 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Defined benefit obligations 14,695 (44,444) 
Fair value of plan assets (8,589) 19,364 
Net actuarial gains/(losses) 6,106 (25,080) 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
 2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (217,243) (230,721) (182,061) 
Fair value of plan assets 181,615 183,980 156,033 
Liability recognised in the Company Balance Sheet (35,628) (46,741) (26,028) 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At beginning of year  (230,721) (182,061) 
Service cost – (1,038) 
Interest cost (7,399) (7,899) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 14,695 (44,444) 
Contributions from plan members – (372) 
Benefits paid 6,182 5,076 
Premiums paid – 17 
At end of year (217,243) (230,721) 
C12 RESERVES 
C13 RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN 
 
 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
170 
 
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets were as follows: 
 
The five-year history of experience adjustments was as follows: 
Based on the most recent actuarial valuation, the estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the plan during the year 
ending 1 April 2017 is £7,080,000. 
Further details of Halma Group Pension Plan, including all disclosures required under FRS 101, are contained in note 28 to the 
Group accounts. 
 
 
53 weeks to 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
At beginning of year  183,980 156,033 
Expected return on plan assets 5,986 6,911 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (8,769) 19,364 
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 6,600 6,393 
Contributions from plan members – 372 
Benefits paid (6,182) (5,076) 
Premiums paid – (17) 
At end of year 181,615 183,980 
 
2 April  
2016 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
30 March 
2013 
£000 
31 March 
2012 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (217,243) (230,721) (182,061) (182,249) (182,249) 
Fair value of plan assets 181,615 183,980 156,033 147,055 147,084 
Deficit in the plan (35,628) (46,741) (26,028) (35,194) (35,165) 
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities      
Amount 2,265 (4,271) – – (197) 
Percentage of plan liabilities  (1)% 2% – – – 
Experience adjustments on plan assets      
Amount  (8,769) 19,364 – 8,815 (78) 
Percentage of plan assets (5)% 10% – 6% (1)% 
C13 RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN continued 
 
172 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the Company Accounts continued  
171 
 
I – Retirement benefit obligation  
Under UK GAAP (FRS 17), as the defined benefit plan was a multi-employer scheme and the Company was unable to identify its share 
of the underlying assets and liabilities, the plan was accounted for as a defined contribution scheme, recognising only the contribution 
payable by the Company. 
Under FRS 101 the multi-employer exemption is no longer available. There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the 
net defined benefit cost within the Group amongst the participating companies. Therefore the Company, as the sponsoring employer, 
has recognised the full defined benefit plan’s net obligation on the Company Balance Sheet. None of the net obligation is, or was, 
recognised on the individual Balance Sheet of any other UK company within the Group. 
The impact has been to increase Creditors falling due after more than one year at 30 March 2014 by £26,028,000 and at 29 March 
2015 by £46,741,000. 
As prescribed under FRS 101 any actuarial gains and losses are recognised through the Company Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expenditure. In 2015 actuarial losses of £25,080,000 were recognised. 
II – A deferred tax asset of £5,256,000 relating to the retirement benefit obligation was recognised on the Company Balance Sheet 
at the transition to FRS 101. This results in an increase in the Profit and Loss Account reserve by £5,256,000. 
The increase in the pension plan obligation during 2015, as described above, has given rise to an increase in the corresponding 
deferred tax asset from £5,256,000 to £9,344,000 and has increased the Profit and Loss Account reserve by a further £4,088,000. 
III – Under UK GAAP current and deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is taken to profit or loss in full. Under 
FRS 101, current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss for the year to the extent it relates to the share based payment charge 
recognised. It is taken to equity where it exceeds the related cumulative share-based payment charge. This results in a reduction in the 
profit for 2015 of £534,000 but does not change the reported equity.  
In accordance with the exemption provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own 
Profit and Loss Account. As a result of the adjustments noted above, the transition to FRS 101 has increased the profit after tax for 
2015 by £2,917,000, comprising £3,451,000 increase relating to the net impact of reinstating the defined benefit obligation and 
£534,000 decrease relating to the treatment of current and deferred tax in relation to share-based payments.  
Previously under UK GAAP, software was presented within tangible assets. Under FRS 101, this is classified as an intangible asset. 
There is no change in the value ascribed to the software asset. 
 
  
Note 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
 Shareholders’ funds reported under previous GAAP 360,028 408,775 
 Adjustments to equity on transition to FRS 101:   
I Reinstatement of retirement benefit obligation (26,028) (46,741) 
II Deferred tax asset on retirement benefit obligation  5,256 9,344 
III Excess tax on share-based payment transactions – – 
 Shareholders’ funds reported under FRS 101 339,256 371,378 
C14 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO FRS 101 
Reconciliation of Shareholders’ funds 
Reconciliation of profit for the year ending 28 March 2015 
Presentation of software in the Company Balance Sheet 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 173
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
172 
 
Summary 2007 to 2016 
 
 
 
All years are presented under IFRS. 
 
Notes: 
1. Continuing and discontinued operations. 
2. Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition transaction costs, release of fair value adjustments to inventory, and 
adjustments to contingent consideration (collectively ‘acquisition items’). IFRS figures include results of operations up to the date of their sales or closure but 
exclude material discontinued and continuing profits on sales or closures of operations. In 2013/14 only, the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the 
defined benefit pension plans have also been removed. 
3.  Return on Sales is defined as profit before taxation, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items (from 2010/11); profit or loss on disposal 
of operations; and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (2013/14 only) expressed as a 
percentage of revenue. 
4. See note 3 to the Report and Accounts for the definitions of ROCE and ROTIC. The ROCE and ROTIC measures were restated in 2014/15 and for all 
prior years to use an average Capital Employed and Total Invested Capital respectively. This measure is considered to be more representative. 
5. IAS 19 (as revised in June 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ was adopted by the Group in 2013/14. To aid comparison, and as required by IAS 19 (revised), 
the Consolidated Financial Statements and affected notes for 2012/13 were restated as if IAS 19 (revised) had always applied during that year. Results 
prior to 2012/13 were not restated.  
 
 
  
 
2006/07 
£000 
2007/08 
£000 
2008/09 
£000 
Revenue (note 1) 354,606 397,955 455,928 
Overseas sales (note 1) 258,050 288,701 351,522 
Profit before taxation, and adjustments (note 2) 66,091 73,215 79,087 
Net tangible assets/capital employed 113,048 134,320 173,128 
Borrowings (excluding overdrafts) 29,762 72,393 86,173 
Cash and cash equivalents (net of overdrafts) 22,051 28,118 34,987 
Employees (note 1) 3,326 3,683 4,018 
Earnings per ordinary share (note 1) 11.86p 13.49p 14.07p 
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (note 2)  12.42p 13.86p 15.30p 
Year-on-year increase in adjusted earnings per ordinary share 10.9% 11.5% 10.4% 
Return on Sales (notes 1 and 3) 18.6% 18.4% 17.3% 
Return on Capital Employed (restated – note 4) 62.2% 60.6% 53.7% 
Return on Total Invested Capital (restated – note 4) 14.3% 14.8% 14.2% 
Year-on-year increase in dividends per ordinary share (paid and proposed) 5% 5% 5% 
Ordinary share price at financial year end  220p 192p 156p 
Market capitalisation at financial year end £821.8m £717.7m £583.7m 
174 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Summary 2007 to 2016  
173 
 
 
 
2009/10 
£000 
2010/11 
£000 
2011/12 
£000 
2012/13 
£000 
(Restated) 
(note 5) 
2012/13 
£000 
2013/14 
£000 
2014/15 
£000 
2015/16 
£000 
459,118 518,428 579,883 619,210 619,210 676,506 726,134 807,805 
360,779 412,297 454,270 503,635 503,635 548,629 587,822 662,984 
86,214 104,551 120,465 130,661 128,543 140,249 153,618 166,014 
145,519 146,964 163,283 188,701 188,701 189,707 219,148 259,373 
21,924 79,688 64,014 160,013 160,013 107,622 140,419 296,244 
31,006 42,610 45,305 49,723 49,723 33,126 39,525 49,526 
3,689 3,875 4,347 4,716 4,716 4,999 5,328 5,604 
16.10p 19.23p 23.01p 25.22p 24.79p 28.14p 27.49p 28.76p 
16.89p 20.49p 24.46p 26.22p 25.79p 28.47p 31.17p 34.26p 
10.4% 21.3% 19.4% 7.2% 5.4% 10.4% 9.5% 9.9% 
18.8% 20.2% 20.8% 21.1% 20.8% 20.7% 21.2% 20.6% 
55.9% 72.2% 78.6% 76.4% 75.8% 76.6% 77.6% 72.3% 
14.0% 16.0% 17.6% 16.9% 16.6% 16.7% 16.3% 15.6% 
7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 
259p 355p 381p 518p 518p 579p 701p 912p 
£978.1m £1,342.7m £1,440.8m £1,962.6m £1,962.6m £2,192.6m £2,661.3m £3,462.4m 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 175
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 176 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Process Safety
Castell Safety International Limited Safety systems for controlling hazardous industrial processes Kingsbury, London (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+44 (0)20 8200 1200 uksales@castell.com www.castell.com
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited Gas detection instruments for personnel and plant safety Abingdon, Oxfordshire (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
Singapore
The Netherlands
+44 (0)1235 557700 sales@crowcon.com www.crowcon.com
Elfab Limited Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant North Shields, Tyne & Wear +44 (0)191 293 1234 sales@elfab.com www.elfab.com
Fortress Interlocks Limited Interlock systems for safeguarding dangerous machines and hazardous processes Wolverhampton, West Midlands (Head Office) 
Melbourne, Australia
+44 (0)1902 349000 sales@fortressinterlocks.com www.fortressinterlocks.com
Kirk Key Interlock Company, LLC. Key interlocks and interlocking systems for the protection of personnel and equipment North Canton, Ohio +1 800 438 2442 sales@kirkkey.com www.kirkkey.com
Netherlocks Safety Systems B.V. Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Alphen aan den Rijn, The Netherlands (Head Office)
Dubai, UAE
Gujarat, India
Stockstadt, Germany
Houston, Texas
+31 (0)172 471 339 sales@netherlocks.com www.netherlocks.com
Oseco, Inc. Pressure relief products used in petrochemical and industrial applications Broken Arrow, Oklahoma +1 918 258 5626 info@oseco.com www.oseco.com
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. Design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems into  
diverse industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, chemical and utilities
Santa Fe Springs, California (Head Office) 
Houston, Texas 
Aberdeen, Scotland 
Sharjah, UAE 
Singapore
Perth, Australia
Edmonton, Canada
Beijing, China
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
+1 562 949 0123 sales@cosasco.com www.cosasco.com
SERV Trayvou Interverrouillage S.A.S. Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Paris, France (Head Office) 
Tunis, Tunisia
+33 (0)1 48 18 15 15 sales@servtrayvou.com www.servtrayvou.com
Smith Flow Control Limited Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Witham, Essex (Head Office)
Erlanger, Kentucky
Victoria, Australia
Beijing, China
Mumbai, India
+44 (0)1376 517901 sales@smithflowcontrol.com www.smithflowcontrol.com
Infrastructure Safety
Advanced Electronics Limited Networked fire detectors and control systems Cramlington, Northumberland (Head Office)
Hopkinton, Massachusetts
+44 (0)1670 707111 sales@advancedco.com www.advancedco.com
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited Smoke and heat detectors, sounders, beacons and interfaces Havant, Hampshire (Head Office) 
Auburn Hills, Michigan 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)2392 492412 enquiries@apollo-fire.com www.apollo-fire.co.uk
Avire Limited Infrared safety systems for elevator doors and elevator emergency communications Maidenhead, Berkshire (Head Office) 
C
ˇ
eské Bude ˇ jovice, Czech Republic 
Hauppauge, New York 
Shanghai, China 
Singapore
+44 (0)1628 540100 sales.uk@avire-global.com www.avire-global.com
Bureau D’Electronique Appliquée S.A. (BEA) Sensors for automatic doors Liège, Belgium (Head Office) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Beijing, China
+32 (0)4 361 65 65 info@bea.be www.bea.be
FFE Limited Flame detectors, beam smoke detectors and specialist fire extinguishing systems Hitchin, Hertfordshire +44 (0)1462 444740 sales@ffeuk.com www.ffeuk.com
Firetrace USA, LLC Automatic fire detection and suppression systems Scottsdale, Arizona +1 480 607 1218 info@firetrace.com www.firetrace.com
Texecom Limited Security sensors and signalling products Haslingden, Lancashire +44 (0)1706 220460 sales@texe.com www.texe.com
Medical
Accudynamics, LLC. Mechanical and fluidic components primarily used in medical, life science and scientific instruments Lakeville, Massachusetts +1 508 946 4545 info@accudynamics.com www.accudynamics.com
Accutome, Inc. Ophthalmic diagnostic and surgical equipment, as well as a broad line of pharmaceutical products Malvern, Pennsylvania (Head Office) 
Cuijk, The Netherlands
+1 610 889 0200 info@accutome.com www.accutome.com
Baoding Longer Precision Pump Co., Ltd. Peristaltic, syringe, piston and gear pumps for use in laboratory, industrial and medical applications  
for both end-user and OEM customers
Baoding, Hebei, China +86 312 3110087 longer@longerpump.com www.longerpump.com
Bio-Chem Fluidics Inc. Miniature valves, micro pumps and fluid components for medical, life science and scientific instruments Boonton, New Jersey +1 973 263 3001 sales.us@biochemfluidics.com www.biochemfluidics.com
CenTrak, Inc. Real-time location systems for healthcare facilities Newtown, Pennsylvania +1 215 860 2928 info@centrak.com www.centrak.com
Diba Industries, Inc. Specialised components and complete fluid transfer subassemblies for medical, life science  
and scientific instruments
Danbury, Connecticut (Head Office) 
Cambridge, UK
+1 203 744 0773 sales@dibaind.com www.dibaind.com
Keeler Limited Ophthalmic instruments for diagnostic assessment of eye conditions Windsor, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Broomall, Pennsylvania
+44 (0)1753 857177 info@keeler.co.uk www.keeler.co.uk
Medicel AG Instruments for ophthalmic surgery Wolfhalden, Switzerland +41 71 727 1050 info@medicel.com www.medicel.com
MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. Ophthalmic surgical products, focusing on single-use devices used in cataract surgery Redmond, Washington +1 425 556 0544 info@microsurgical.com www.microsurgical.com
Halma Directory Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 177
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Process Safety
Castell Safety International Limited Safety systems for controlling hazardous industrial processes Kingsbury, London (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+44 (0)20 8200 1200 uksales@castell.com www.castell.com
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited Gas detection instruments for personnel and plant safety Abingdon, Oxfordshire (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
Singapore
The Netherlands
+44 (0)1235 557700 sales@crowcon.com www.crowcon.com
Elfab Limited Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant North Shields, Tyne & Wear +44 (0)191 293 1234 sales@elfab.com www.elfab.com
Fortress Interlocks Limited Interlock systems for safeguarding dangerous machines and hazardous processes Wolverhampton, West Midlands (Head Office) 
Melbourne, Australia
+44 (0)1902 349000 sales@fortressinterlocks.com www.fortressinterlocks.com
Kirk Key Interlock Company, LLC. Key interlocks and interlocking systems for the protection of personnel and equipment North Canton, Ohio +1 800 438 2442 sales@kirkkey.com www.kirkkey.com
Netherlocks Safety Systems B.V. Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Alphen aan den Rijn, The Netherlands (Head Office)
Dubai, UAE
Gujarat, India
Stockstadt, Germany
Houston, Texas
+31 (0)172 471 339 sales@netherlocks.com www.netherlocks.com
Oseco, Inc. Pressure relief products used in petrochemical and industrial applications Broken Arrow, Oklahoma +1 918 258 5626 info@oseco.com www.oseco.com
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. Design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems into  
diverse industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, chemical and utilities
Santa Fe Springs, California (Head Office) 
Houston, Texas 
Aberdeen, Scotland 
Sharjah, UAE 
Singapore
Perth, Australia
Edmonton, Canada
Beijing, China
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
+1 562 949 0123 sales@cosasco.com www.cosasco.com
SERV Trayvou Interverrouillage S.A.S. Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Paris, France (Head Office) 
Tunis, Tunisia
+33 (0)1 48 18 15 15 sales@servtrayvou.com www.servtrayvou.com
Smith Flow Control Limited Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Witham, Essex (Head Office)
Erlanger, Kentucky
Victoria, Australia
Beijing, China
Mumbai, India
+44 (0)1376 517901 sales@smithflowcontrol.com www.smithflowcontrol.com
Infrastructure Safety
Advanced Electronics Limited Networked fire detectors and control systems Cramlington, Northumberland (Head Office)
Hopkinton, Massachusetts
+44 (0)1670 707111 sales@advancedco.com www.advancedco.com
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited Smoke and heat detectors, sounders, beacons and interfaces Havant, Hampshire (Head Office) 
Auburn Hills, Michigan 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)2392 492412 enquiries@apollo-fire.com www.apollo-fire.co.uk
Avire Limited Infrared safety systems for elevator doors and elevator emergency communications Maidenhead, Berkshire (Head Office) 
C
ˇ
eské Bude ˇ jovice, Czech Republic 
Hauppauge, New York 
Shanghai, China 
Singapore
+44 (0)1628 540100 sales.uk@avire-global.com www.avire-global.com
Bureau D’Electronique Appliquée S.A. (BEA) Sensors for automatic doors Liège, Belgium (Head Office) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Beijing, China
+32 (0)4 361 65 65 info@bea.be www.bea.be
FFE Limited Flame detectors, beam smoke detectors and specialist fire extinguishing systems Hitchin, Hertfordshire +44 (0)1462 444740 sales@ffeuk.com www.ffeuk.com
Firetrace USA, LLC Automatic fire detection and suppression systems Scottsdale, Arizona +1 480 607 1218 info@firetrace.com www.firetrace.com
Texecom Limited Security sensors and signalling products Haslingden, Lancashire +44 (0)1706 220460 sales@texe.com www.texe.com
Medical
Accudynamics, LLC. Mechanical and fluidic components primarily used in medical, life science and scientific instruments Lakeville, Massachusetts +1 508 946 4545 info@accudynamics.com www.accudynamics.com
Accutome, Inc. Ophthalmic diagnostic and surgical equipment, as well as a broad line of pharmaceutical products Malvern, Pennsylvania (Head Office) 
Cuijk, The Netherlands
+1 610 889 0200 info@accutome.com www.accutome.com
Baoding Longer Precision Pump Co., Ltd. Peristaltic, syringe, piston and gear pumps for use in laboratory, industrial and medical applications  
for both end-user and OEM customers
Baoding, Hebei, China +86 312 3110087 longer@longerpump.com www.longerpump.com
Bio-Chem Fluidics Inc. Miniature valves, micro pumps and fluid components for medical, life science and scientific instruments Boonton, New Jersey +1 973 263 3001 sales.us@biochemfluidics.com www.biochemfluidics.com
CenTrak, Inc. Real-time location systems for healthcare facilities Newtown, Pennsylvania +1 215 860 2928 info@centrak.com www.centrak.com
Diba Industries, Inc. Specialised components and complete fluid transfer subassemblies for medical, life science  
and scientific instruments
Danbury, Connecticut (Head Office) 
Cambridge, UK
+1 203 744 0773 sales@dibaind.com www.dibaind.com
Keeler Limited Ophthalmic instruments for diagnostic assessment of eye conditions Windsor, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Broomall, Pennsylvania
+44 (0)1753 857177 info@keeler.co.uk www.keeler.co.uk
Medicel AG Instruments for ophthalmic surgery Wolfhalden, Switzerland +41 71 727 1050 info@medicel.com www.medicel.com
MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. Ophthalmic surgical products, focusing on single-use devices used in cataract surgery Redmond, Washington +1 425 556 0544 info@microsurgical.com www.microsurgical.com 178 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Halma Directory continued
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Medical continued
Rudolf Riester GmbH Diagnostic medical devices for ophthalmology, blood pressure measurement and ear,  
nose and throat diagnostics
Jungingen, Germany +49 (0)74 77 92 700 info@riester.de www.riester.de
SunTech Medical, Inc. Clinical grade non-invasive blood pressure monitoring products and technologies Morrisville, North Carolina (Head Office) 
Shenzhen, China
+1 919 654 2300 sales@suntechmed.com www.suntechmed.com
Visiometrics S.L. Ophthalmic diagnostic instruments that objectively measure visual acuity Cerdanyola, Spain (Head Office)
Aliso Viejo, California
+34 935 824 501 info@visiometrics.com www.visiometrics.com
Volk Optical, Inc. Ophthalmic equipment and lenses as aids to diagnosis and surgery Mentor, Ohio +1 440 942 6161 volk@volk.com www.volk.com
Environmental & Analysis
Alicat Scientific, Inc. Mass flow meters, mass flow controllers and pressure controllers for high-precision  
fluid flow measurement
Tucson, Arizona (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+1 520 290 6060 info@alicat.com www.alicat.com
Avo Photonics, Inc. Opto-electronic solutions and product design, development and manufacturing of exclusive,  
confidential, private label applications
Horsham, Pennsylvania (Head Office)
Toronto, Canada
+1 215 441 0107 sales@avophotonics.com www.avophotonics.com
Berson Milieutechniek B.V. Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection systems for municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants Nuenen, The Netherlands +31 (0)40 290 7777 info@bersonuv.com www.bersonuv.com
Fiberguide Industries, Inc. Large core specialty optical fibre, high temperature metalised fibres for optical power delivery  
and optical sensing applications
Stirling, New Jersey (Head Office) 
Caldwell, Idaho 
Shanghai, China
+1 908 647 6601 info@fiberguide.com www.fiberguide.com
Hanovia Limited Ultraviolet (UV) light water treatment equipment used in the manufacture of food, beverages  
and pharmaceuticals, as well as products for aquaculture, pool and leisure and for marine  
ballast water treatment
Slough, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)1753 515300 sales@hanovia.com www.hanovia.com
HWM-Water Limited Multi-utility M2M solutions provider, including data recording and management for water networks, 
electricity, solar PV and energy conservation
Cwmbran, South Wales (Head Office) 
Pitsford, Northampton 
Cincinnati, Ohio
+44 (0)1633 489 479 sales@hwm-water.com www.hwmglobal.com
Hydreka S.A.S. Equipment and software to monitor and analyse the entire clean and dirty water cycle and for leak 
detection in municipal and large scale industrial applications
Lyon, France +33 (0)4 72 53 11 53 hydreka@hydreka.fr www.hydreka.com
Labsphere, Inc. Precision radiometric and photometric systems and software for light testing, calibration and 
measurement
North Sutton, New Hampshire (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+1 603 927 4266 labsphere@labsphere.com www.labsphere.com
Ocean Optics, Inc. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical analysis, 
process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Dunedin, Florida (Head Office) 
Winter Park, Florida 
Ostfildern, Germany 
Duiven, The Netherlands 
Oxford, Oxfordshire
+1 727 733 2447 info@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.com
Palintest Limited Water and environmental analysis equipment to test drinking water, wastewater and process water,  
water in pools and spas, as well as farming and irrigation applications
Gateshead, Tyne & Wear (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Sydney, Australia
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)191 491 0808 sales@palintest.com www.palintest.com
Perma Pure LLC High precision moisture management products including dryers, humidifiers, and complete sample 
conditioning systems for emissions monitoring, process analysis, and medical applications
Lakewood, New Jersey (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+1 732 244 0010 info@permapure.com www.permapure.com
Pixelteq, Inc. Multispectral sensing and imaging solutions for aerospace, biomedical, semiconductor, industrial and 
scientific applications
Largo, Florida (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+1 727 545 0741 info@pixelteq.com www.pixelteq.com
Sensorex Corporation Electrochemical sensors for water analysis applications in the process industry and laboratory markets Garden Grove, California +1 714 895 4344 sales@sensorex.com www.sensorex.com
Weihai Guangxue Yiqi (Shanghai), Ltd.
(also known as Ocean Optics Asia)
Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical analysis, 
process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Shanghai, China (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+86 (0)21 6295 6600 asiasales@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.cn
Group
Halma plc Halma plc Head Office Amersham, Buckinghamshire +44 (0)1494 721111 halma@halma.com www.halma.com
Halma Holdings Inc. Halma North American Head Office Cincinnati, Ohio +1 513 772 5501 halmaholdings@halmaholdings.com www.halma.com
Halma International Limited Representative Offices Halma China hubs in Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou and Shenyang China +86 21 6016 7666 halmachina@halma.com www.halma.cn
Halma India Pvt Ltd Halma India hub Bengaluru, India +91 (22)6101 1234 halmaindia@halma.com www.halma.in Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 179
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Medical continued
Rudolf Riester GmbH Diagnostic medical devices for ophthalmology, blood pressure measurement and ear,  
nose and throat diagnostics
Jungingen, Germany +49 (0)74 77 92 700 info@riester.de www.riester.de
SunTech Medical, Inc. Clinical grade non-invasive blood pressure monitoring products and technologies Morrisville, North Carolina (Head Office) 
Shenzhen, China
+1 919 654 2300 sales@suntechmed.com www.suntechmed.com
Visiometrics S.L. Ophthalmic diagnostic instruments that objectively measure visual acuity Cerdanyola, Spain (Head Office)
Aliso Viejo, California
+34 935 824 501 info@visiometrics.com www.visiometrics.com
Volk Optical, Inc. Ophthalmic equipment and lenses as aids to diagnosis and surgery Mentor, Ohio +1 440 942 6161 volk@volk.com www.volk.com
Environmental & Analysis
Alicat Scientific, Inc. Mass flow meters, mass flow controllers and pressure controllers for high-precision  
fluid flow measurement
Tucson, Arizona (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+1 520 290 6060 info@alicat.com www.alicat.com
Avo Photonics, Inc. Opto-electronic solutions and product design, development and manufacturing of exclusive,  
confidential, private label applications
Horsham, Pennsylvania (Head Office)
Toronto, Canada
+1 215 441 0107 sales@avophotonics.com www.avophotonics.com
Berson Milieutechniek B.V. Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection systems for municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants Nuenen, The Netherlands +31 (0)40 290 7777 info@bersonuv.com www.bersonuv.com
Fiberguide Industries, Inc. Large core specialty optical fibre, high temperature metalised fibres for optical power delivery  
and optical sensing applications
Stirling, New Jersey (Head Office) 
Caldwell, Idaho 
Shanghai, China
+1 908 647 6601 info@fiberguide.com www.fiberguide.com
Hanovia Limited Ultraviolet (UV) light water treatment equipment used in the manufacture of food, beverages  
and pharmaceuticals, as well as products for aquaculture, pool and leisure and for marine  
ballast water treatment
Slough, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)1753 515300 sales@hanovia.com www.hanovia.com
HWM-Water Limited Multi-utility M2M solutions provider, including data recording and management for water networks, 
electricity, solar PV and energy conservation
Cwmbran, South Wales (Head Office) 
Pitsford, Northampton 
Cincinnati, Ohio
+44 (0)1633 489 479 sales@hwm-water.com www.hwmglobal.com
Hydreka S.A.S. Equipment and software to monitor and analyse the entire clean and dirty water cycle and for leak 
detection in municipal and large scale industrial applications
Lyon, France +33 (0)4 72 53 11 53 hydreka@hydreka.fr www.hydreka.com
Labsphere, Inc. Precision radiometric and photometric systems and software for light testing, calibration and 
measurement
North Sutton, New Hampshire (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+1 603 927 4266 labsphere@labsphere.com www.labsphere.com
Ocean Optics, Inc. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical analysis, 
process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Dunedin, Florida (Head Office) 
Winter Park, Florida 
Ostfildern, Germany 
Duiven, The Netherlands 
Oxford, Oxfordshire
+1 727 733 2447 info@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.com
Palintest Limited Water and environmental analysis equipment to test drinking water, wastewater and process water,  
water in pools and spas, as well as farming and irrigation applications
Gateshead, Tyne & Wear (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Sydney, Australia
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)191 491 0808 sales@palintest.com www.palintest.com
Perma Pure LLC High precision moisture management products including dryers, humidifiers, and complete sample 
conditioning systems for emissions monitoring, process analysis, and medical applications
Lakewood, New Jersey (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+1 732 244 0010 info@permapure.com www.permapure.com
Pixelteq, Inc. Multispectral sensing and imaging solutions for aerospace, biomedical, semiconductor, industrial and 
scientific applications
Largo, Florida (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+1 727 545 0741 info@pixelteq.com www.pixelteq.com
Sensorex Corporation Electrochemical sensors for water analysis applications in the process industry and laboratory markets Garden Grove, California +1 714 895 4344 sales@sensorex.com www.sensorex.com
Weihai Guangxue Yiqi (Shanghai), Ltd.
(also known as Ocean Optics Asia)
Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical analysis, 
process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Shanghai, China (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+86 (0)21 6295 6600 asiasales@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.cn
Group
Halma plc Halma plc Head Office Amersham, Buckinghamshire +44 (0)1494 721111 halma@halma.com www.halma.com
Halma Holdings Inc. Halma North American Head Office Cincinnati, Ohio +1 513 772 5501 halmaholdings@halmaholdings.com www.halma.com
Halma International Limited Representative Offices Halma China hubs in Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou and Shenyang China +86 21 6016 7666 halmachina@halma.com www.halma.cn
Halma India Pvt Ltd Halma India hub Bengaluru, India +91 (22)6101 1234 halmaindia@halma.com www.halma.in 180 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Shareholder Information and Advisers
Financial calendar
2015/16 Half year results 17 November 2015
2015/16 Interim dividend paid 10 February 2016
Trading update 11 February 2016
2015/16 Year end 2 April 2016
2015/16 Final results 14 June 2016
2015/16 Report and Accounts issued 21 June 2016
Annual General Meeting 21 July 2016
2015/16 Final dividend payable 17 August 2016
2016/17 Half year end 1 October 2016
2016/17 Half year results 22 November 2016
2016/17 Interim dividend payable February 2017
2016/17 Year end 1 April 2017
2016/17 Final results June 2017
Analysis of shareholders at 16 May 2016
Shareholders
 (number) %
Shares
(number) %
Number of shares held
1 – 5,000 5,035 79.2 6,691,118 1.8
5,001 – 25,000 791 12.4 8,259,929 2.2
25,001 – 100,000 268 4.2 13,446,030 3.5
100,001 – 750,000 186 2.9 56,098,631 14.8
750,001 and over 82 1.3 295,149,624 77.7
6,362 100.0 379,645,332 100.0
Share price  
London Stock Exchange, pence per 10p share 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Highest 917 726 623 531 430 
Lowest 699 559 471 373 306 
Dividends  
Pence per 10p share 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Interim 4.98 4.65 4.35 4.06 3.79
Final 7.83* 7.31 6.82 6.37 5.95
Total 12.81 11.96 11.17 10.43 9.74 
* Proposed.
INVESTOR INFORMATION
Visit our website, www.halma.com, for investor information and Company news. In addition to accessing financial data, you can view and 
download Annual and Half Year Reports, analyst presentations, find contact details for Halma senior executives and subsidiary companies and 
access links to Halma subsidiary websites. You can also download our iPad app or subscribe to an e-mail news alert service to automatically 
receive an e-mail when significant announcements are made.
SHAREHOLDING INFORMATION
Please contact our Registrar, Computershare, directly for all enquiries about your shareholding. Visit their Investor Centre website 
www.investorcentre.co.uk for online information about your shareholding (you will need your shareholder reference number which can be  
found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation), or telephone the Registrar direct using the dedicated telephone number for Halma 
shareholders: +44 (0)370 707 1046.
DIVIDEND MANDATE
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account by completing a bank mandate form. 
The advantages to using this service are: the payment is more secure than sending a cheque through the post; it avoids the inconvenience 
of paying in a cheque and there is no risk of lost, stolen or out-of-date cheques. A mandate form can be obtained from Computershare or 
you will find one on the reverse of your last dividend confirmation. Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 181
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) which offers shareholders the option to elect to have their cash dividends 
reinvested in Halma ordinary shares purchased in the market. You can register for the DRIP online by visiting Computershare’s Investor 
Centre website (as above) or by requesting an application form direct from Computershare. Shareholders who wish to elect for the DRIP  
for the forthcoming final dividend, but have not already done so, should return a DRIP application form to Computershare no later than  
27 July 2016.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
All shareholder communications, including the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, are made available to shareholders on the Halma 
website and you may opt to receive e-mail notification that documents and information are available to view and download rather than to 
receive paper copies through the post. Using electronic communications helps us to limit the amount of paper we use and assists us in 
reducing our costs. If you would like to sign up for this service, visit Computershare’s Investor Centre website. You may change the way  
you receive communications at any time by contacting Computershare.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The 122nd Annual General Meeting of Halma plc will be held in the Burdett Suite at No. 1 1 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN  
on Thursday 21 July 2016 at 1 1.00 am.
REGISTERED OFFICE
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE
Tel: +44 (0)1494 721 1 11 
halma@halma.com 
Website: www.halma.com
Registered in England and Wales,  
No 00040932
REGISTRAR
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Tel: +44 (0)370 707 1046 
Fax: +44 (0)370 703 6101  
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACTS
Rachel Hirst/Andrew Jaques 
MHP Communications  
6 Agar Street 
London WC2N 4HN
Tel: +44 (0)20 3128 8100 
Fax: +44 (0)20 3128 8171 
halma@mhpc.com
Andrew Williams 
Halma plc 
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE 
Tel: +44 (0)1494 721 1 11 
Fax: +44 (0)1494 728032 
investor.relations@halma.com
ADVISERS 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP 
Abbots House 
Abbey Street 
Reading RG1 3BD
Financial advisers
Lazard & Co., Limited 
50 Stratton Street 
London W1J 8LL 
 
Credit Suisse International 
One Cabot Square 
London E14 4QJ
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 4RB 
Brokers
Credit Suisse International 
One Cabot Square 
London E14 4QJ
Investec Investment Banking  
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors 
CMS Cameron McKenna LLP  
Cannon Place 
78 Cannon Street 
London EC4N 6AF
Design, consultancy and production 
by Luminous 
www.luminous.co.uk
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 
certified  paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its 
Environmental Management System is certified 
to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% 
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average, 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Novatech Matt and 
Cocoon 100 Offset. Novatech Matt is a paper 
containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well-
managed, responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp 
used in this product is bleached using an elemental 
chlorine free (ECF) process. Cocoon 100 Offset 
contains 100% post-consumer recycled fibre, which is 
either Process Chlorine Free (PCF) or Totally Chlorine 
Free (TCF). Halma plc 
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE
Tel +44(0)1494 721 11 1
Fax +44(0)1494 728032
Web www.halma.com
STAY UP-TO-DATE 
The latest Halma news, share price, webcasts, 
financial documents and more can be found on the 
Halma website at www.halma.com. You can download 
our free investor relations iPad app and follow Halma on 
the move at http://goo.gl/4W91y
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
