 H&T Group plc
The UK’s leading pawnbroker
Serving customers’ different needs
H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: 0870 9022 600
www.handtgroup.co.uk
H&T Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk
Loans from £50 to £1,000 over any term of up to 
two years.
Personal Loans
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand 
jewellery and watches.
Retail
H&T provides a range of simple and accessible 
financial products tailored for a customer base 
who have limited access to, or are excluded from, 
the traditional banking and finance sector.
Pawnbroking loans are secured on an item of value 
with a term of up to six months. 
Pawnbroking
Gold Purchasing is a simple way for customers to 
use their unwanted gold to raise some cash.
Gold Purchasing
Highly competitive rates and with no commission 
charges.
Foreign Exchange
Get cash for cheques in a few minutes, rather than 
banking the cheque.
Cheque Cashing
Raise cash from electronic items such as phones, 
tablets, laptops and game consoles.
Buyback
   EST 1897 - DISCOUNT SECONDHAND JEWELLERY
   H&T PAWNBROKERS
OUR CUSTOMERS
ONLINE                                       STORES                                  APPS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
01
Strategic report Strategic report DirectorS’ report FiNaNciaL S tateMeNt S
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Retail sales growth of 24.1% has been enhanced through brand redevelopment, point of sale, 
pricing policy and stock replenishment 
Implementation of the “Expert Eye” system to support store valuation of specialist items 
Continued development of our Personal Loans product
Launch of the online Personal Loans product
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This annual report of H&T Group plc (“H&T” , “the Group” , “the Company”) contains some forward-looking information and statements that 
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including statements about the Group’s plans, objectives and intentions. The information and 
statements contained herein are stated as at the date of this report and there exists the risk that actual results and outcomes may differ from the 
information and statements made.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
DILUTED EPS
11.78p (2013: 13.40p)
PROPOSED DIVIDEND PER SHARE
4.8p (2013: 4.8p)
PROPOSED FINAL DIVIDEND
2.7p (2013: 2.7p)
GROSS PROFIT
£45.7m (2013: £49.9m)
EBITDA
£9.8m (2013: £11.7m)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£5.5m (2013: £6.7m)
STRATEGIC REPORT
01 HIGHLIGHTS
02 CHAIRmAN’S STATEmENT
04 THE BUSINESS AT A GLANCE
06 WHAT IS PAWNBROkING?
07 OUR CUSTOmER FOCUSEd BUSINESS
10 THE STORE ESTATE
12 OUR COmmUNITIES
13 CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW
17 FINANCE dIRECTOR’S REVIEW
18 RISkS ANd UNCERTAINTIES
dIRECTORS’ REPORT
21 dIRECTORS, OFFICERS ANd Ad VISERS
23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
25 dIRECTORS’ REPORT
30 dIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEmENT
FINANCIAL STATEmENTS
31  INdEPENdENT AUdITOR’ S REPORT ON THE GROUP 
FINANCIAL STATEmENTS TO THE mEmBERS OF H&T 
GROUP PLC
32  GROUP STATEmENT OF COmPREHENSIVE INCOmE
33  GROUP STATEmENT OF CHANGES IN EqUIT y
34  GROUP BALANCE SHEET
35  GROUP CASH FLOW STATEmENT
36  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIdATEd FINANCIAL 
STATEmENTS
67  INdEPENdENT AUdITOR’ S REPORT TO THE 
mEmBERS OF H&T GROUP PLC
68 COmPANy BALANCE SHEET
69  COmPANy COmBINEd RECONCILIATION OF 
mOVEmENTS IN SHAREHOLdERS’ FUNdS ANd 
STATEmENT OF mOVEmENTS ON RESERVES
70 NOTES TO THE COmPANy FINANCIAL STATEmENTS
72 STORE dIRECTORy
HIGHLIGHTS
kEy PERFORmANCE INdICATORS
PLEDGE BOOk (£m)
Down 12.7% to £38.5m (2013: £44. 1m)
51.6
39.5
46.6
44.1
38.5
RETAIL SALES (£m)
£30.9m (2013: £24.9m)
20.1
19.6
20.0
24.9
30.9
RETAIL MARGIN (%)
34.6% (2013: 39.8%)
49.0
44.9
49.2
39.8
34.6
* This is the actual percentage of lending in each year which was redeemed or renewed, the 2014 figure is an estimate based on recent trend 
and early performance.
NO. OF STORES
191 stores (2013: 194 stores)
186
135
160
194
191
10 11 12 13 14
10 11 12 13 14
10 11 12 13 14
10 11 12 13 14
REDEMPTION OF ANNUAL LENDING (%)
80.0% (2013: 77 .8%)*
75.6
76.0
75.3
77.8
80.0
10 11 12 13 14
GOLD PURCHASE MARGIN (%)
17 .9% (2013: 19.5%)
23.3
36.1
31.4
19.5
17.9
10 11 12 13 14 H&T GROUP PLC
02
CHAIRmAN’S STATEmENT
IntroductIon
The Group has traded well against a challenging 
backdrop. The significant cash flows have 
enabled reduced borrowings and steps have 
been taken to achieve a lower cost base. We 
are beginning to implement new strategies. 
We need to become more relevant to our 
customers through serving them from better 
locations and through effective use of new 
media. 
FInancIal PerFormance
The Group delivered profit after tax of £4.3m 
(2013: £4.9m) and diluted earnings per share  
of 11.78 pence (2013: 13.40 pence). Subject  
to shareholder approval a final dividend of  
2.7 pence per ordinary share (2013: 2.7 
pence) will be paid on 5 June 2015 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 8 May 2015. This will bring the  
full year dividend to 4.8 pence per ordinary 
share (2013: 4.8 pence).
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet 
strength has been successful with a net debt 
reduction of 53.1% to £9.7m (31 December 
2013: £20.7m). This reduction has lowered 
the risk in the business, but from this position 
we now need to develop a group of profitable 
products that reduces the impact of gold 
price volatility. We have seen a strong retail 
performance which partially addresses the 
profitability of the Group, but we need  
to develop new and more valuable product 
lines, including secured lending to generate  
a satisfactory return on capital.
regulatIon
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved 
from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial 
Conduct Authority on 1 April 2014. The Group 
has obtained interim permission from the 
FCA and has submitted its application for full 
authorisation in February 2015. 
The Group is well prepared for the transition 
and we welcome the higher standards that this 
change will bring to our sector.
Strategy
We recognise the need to evolve our business 
model to address an intensely competitive 
environment, the declining footfall on UK high 
streets and the increasing use of the internet for 
commoditised goods and services. We need 
to develop a strong presence in the high footfall 
shopping malls of the UK, rather than the legacy 
of High Street locations that have been the main 
stay of the business. The negativity associated 
with the word “pawnbroking” can prevent us 
obtaining leases in some high footfall locations 
such as shopping malls. We need to look at 
new formats and branding for our business to 
attract a customer who would not use or enter 
a shop with a pawnbroking symbol or that shop 
front description. We will need to relocate stores 
where their location has a reducing footfall, to 
those places where it will grow. The combination 
of on-line presence, high visibility and an 
attractive range of products will be important. 
ProSPectS
The Group started on a programme to address 
all aspects of this developing strategy during 
2014. This included the creation of 39 retail 
stores, with the new branding ‘est1897’; these 
stores comprise 36 rebranded H&T pawnbroker 
stores and three new stores in shopping 
centres. This is being supported by the launch 
of a new range of online services both through 
internet and mobile channels. Good growth has 
been seen in the provision of foreign exchange 
as well as an improved retail offering. We will 
continue to review the product range to increase 
the profitability of stores and the use of different 
asset classes as collateral for consumers’ 
secured lending. 
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders 
I would like to thank everyone at H&T for the 
hard work and dedication through a year of 
significant change. 
Peter d mcnamara
Chairman
H&T Pawnbrokers has, unlike many in the sector , both survived 
and generated strong cash flows against a backdrop of a low gold 
price, significant changes in consumer behaviour and a far tighter 
regulatory regime. The challenge now is to implement strategies  
to reflect this different environment. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
03
Strategic report
PERSONAL LOANS
Gross Profit  
£1.8m
 
Loan Book 
£3.1m H&T GROUP PLC
04
Retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand jewellery and watches sourced from our pledge 
book, purchased over the counter or purchased from suppliers. All H&T’s jewellery is professionally 
cleaned, restored and valued at the Group’s refurbishment centre in Kent before being re-distributed 
for sale at stores across the country. All of H&T’s staff are trained to a high standard to help 
customers choose individual pieces to suit their requirements.
Gold Purchasing
Gold Purchasing is a simple way for customers to use their unwanted gold to raise some cash.  
The process is straightforward with the store assessing the items, agreeing a price with the customer 
and purchasing the goods for cash on the spot. Customers can also sell watches and diamonds to 
H&T which sets us apart from other providers in the market.
Personal Loans
Personal Loans are a simple and innovative way for customers to obtain an unsecured loan of up 
to £1,000. They offer complete flexibility on the length of loan and regular repayments, depending 
on the personal circumstances of each customer. Before issuing a loan we establish the customer’s 
identity, confirm their income and employment and complete an affordability assessment. If approved 
then the customer enters into a consumer credit loan agreement and we will collect the repayments 
on the dates agreed with the customer.
As at 31 december 2014, H&T was the largest pawnbroking 
business in the Uk by size of pledge book.
H&T has existed in some form since the late 1800s and over the years has built or acquired 
some of the oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the Uk. Indeed the store in Edinburgh has 
operated from the same building for more than 150 years serving the same community.
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) providing the Group with access to new sources of finance 
and allowing the provision of equity-based incentivisation to employees. Since then H&T has accelerated its development by adding 
new products and services and expanding the store network by 122 stores to 191 at 31 December 2014.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and will continue to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the 
development and retention of staff and the development of existing and new products together with expansion in locations.
THE BUSINESS AT A GLANCE
Pawnbroking 
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item of value with a term of up to six months. H&T values the 
item(s) based on weight and the precious metal or stones used in its manufacture. The customer 
agrees on a loan amount and enters into a consumer credit agreement. The agreement is for a 
period of six months and the customer can redeem the goods at any point during this time providing 
that they repay the original loan amount plus any interest due. At the end of the contract, they also 
have the option to extend the loan for a further six months. If the customer chooses not to redeem  
or renew the loan, H&T then takes action to dispose of the goods. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
05
Strategic report
Cheque Cashing
Cheque Cashing is a service that allows customers to get cash for their cheques in a few minutes, 
rather than banking the cheque. Most are wage cheques, although other types such as personal, 
lottery, building society and Giro cheques are considered. Customers use H&T to speed up the 
cheque clearance (some building societies can take almost two weeks to clear a cheque) or to avoid 
banking the cheque into an overdrawn account. Customers are required to provide proof of identity 
and address in order to use the service.
Buyback
Increasingly, a younger generation of customers are seeking the opportunity to raise cash from 
electronic items such as phones, tablets, laptops and game consoles. To take advantage of this new 
asset class, H&T has developed its Buyback offer. Customers can sell their electronic items to H&T 
for cash and buy the item back within 31 days. H&T restrict the types of item purchased to current 
models of the most popular items.
Prepaid debit Card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for customers to have the functionality of a Mastercard without 
the associated credit, giving them the freedom to shop online, over the phone or in store. As there 
is no loan or credit involved the application process is simple and the acceptance rate is 100%. 
Customers leave the store with an ATM only card and the personalised Mastercard arrives in the post 
shortly after. Cash can then be loaded to the card at over 14,000 locations across the UK, including 
any H&T store or Post Office branch.
Western Union
Every year millions of people worldwide trust Western Union to send money within minutes to family, 
friends or colleagues in other countries. Since H&T launched Western Union in 2012 it has increased 
transaction numbers to around 10,000 per month and introduced a new customer base to H&T.
Foreign Exchange
H&T offer a foreign exchange service at highly competitive rates and with no commission charges, 
further establishing one of our core strengths of offering great value to the customer. Not only does 
offering this additional service make currency exchange easier for our customers, but we’re also 
broadening our appeal to a new audience.
Online Apps Stores H&T GROUP PLC
06
Valuations, how H&T manage the process 
A pawnbroker advances money secured on items of value. Therefore it is vital that we can determine what those 
items are worth to ensure adequate security, whilst also being able to give the customer what they want.
WHAT IS PAWNBROkING?
Pawnbroking is quite simply a loan secured on an 
item of value. Traditionally pawnbrokers would accept 
almost anything of value in order to secure the loan. 
The H&T pawnbroking offer is mainly based on jewellery as it is compact, high 
worth and can be valued and if necessary resold relatively easily.
How doeS It work?
The customer brings in the item(s) of value to 
the store and is asked to give an indication of 
how much they want to borrow. This is done in 
order to establish how realistic the customer’s 
expectation is, as the high margins charged 
by the high street jewellers can give an inflated 
perception of the value of the goods. The store 
staff then use a combination of their expertise and 
training, together with the point of sale system 
to determine if there is adequate security for the 
loan. Assuming that there is, the customer and 
H&T then enter into a credit agreement regulated 
by the Consumer Credit Act. This is a contract for 
six months and carries interest of 2.0% to 9.99% 
per month. The rate charged is dependent on 
local competition and the size of the loan.
During the contract the customer can:
•  redeem tHe Pledge. This means they 
pay H&T the value of the loan (whether in full 
or by part payments), plus the interest accrued 
to date; or
•  renew tHe Pledge. T his means they 
pay H&T the interest only and a new loan 
agreement is issued for a further six months.
Approximately five months after the date of the 
loan we will write to the customer explaining that 
the contract is almost due and reminding them 
of the final date to redeem. We write again once 
the contract is expired to give the customer 
another opportunity to redeem or renew their 
pledge.
If the customer does not redeem or renew then 
we have to attempt to realise the value of the 
pledge to repay the loan. 
The Consumer Credit Act sets out a different 
treatment for pledges over £75 and those £75 
and under.
•  Over £75: These pledges are sent to public 
auction with a reserve price. In the event 
that the pledge is sold then H&T retains the 
value of the loan, interest to date plus a small 
administration fee. Any surplus  
is repaid to the customer.
•  £75 and under: These pledges become 
the property of H&T immediately; the rules 
relating to the surplus do not apply due to  
the lower value of the items concerned.
Regardless of the outcome H&T does not pursue 
the customer in the rare circumstances when there 
is a shortfall between the amount due under the 
agreement and the amount recovered when the 
item is sold. Therefore if the customer is unable to 
redeem there will be no further consequences and 
their credit rating is unaffected.
H&T’s pledge book is almost 
entirely gold and diamond 
set jewellery, as those items 
are relatively easy to value 
and in the event of default 
they can be sold either 
through the retail window  
or as a commodity.
1
Our staff ask the customer 
how much they would like to 
borrow and perform a visual 
examination of the item. Using 
the weight and metal type we 
now have a good idea of what 
the item is worth based on 
our general lending guidelines.
2
If we can meet the 
customer’s expectations 
then the item is tested 
with a range of acids to 
determine the metal type 
and carat, while diamonds 
are verified using electronic 
testing equipment. 
3
The customer details and a 
full description of the item 
are entered to the computer 
system which calculates 
a range of loan values in 
accordance with Group 
policy. A credit agreement is 
produced and the cash issued 
to the customer.
4
As good as gold
For some, lending money can be a risky 
business, but not for H&T. The loan is 
secured on gold, precious stones or 
watches (over 99% of our pawnbroking 
business) and that security is left in 
our possession for the duration of the 
contract. If the loan forfeits, then the 
collateral can be easily liquidated, in 
almost all cases at a profit. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
07
Strategic report
OUR CUSTOmER FOCUSEd BUSINESS
H&T has been built on securing customer trust and loyalty. Our aim is to 
ensure that people from all walks of life have access to appropriate forms 
of credit. Our staff use the range of products we have available to help 
each customer find the right solution for them.
AGE PROFILE
  18-24 8%
  25-35 25%
  36-44 23%
  45-55 26%
  56+ 18%
  18-24 13%
  25-35 26%
  36-44 18%
  45-55 21%
  56+ 22%
PAWNBROkING
GOLd  
PURCHASING
GENdER SPLIT
  Male 40%
  Female 60%
  Male 39%
  Female 61%
GOLd  
PURCHASING
PAWNBROkING
uSe oF FundS
Generally our customers use cash generated 
from an H&T loan or sale of gold to fund day-
to-day living expenses. Customers also use 
our services to solve short-term cash needs of 
their business or for a wide range of household 
expenditure requirements.
tHe H&t dIFFerence 
We actively encourage customer feedback 
across a range of media and closely monitor the 
comments we receive. Overwhelmingly existing 
and new customers express positive feedback 
on the service they receive. Many comment 
on how their experience with us exceeds their 
expectations, we have again consistently 
achieved satisfaction ratings of 96% and higher.
Customers rate highly the knowledge of 
our staff, based on our ability to understand 
the customers need and directly and 
accurately answer their queries. Also on 
our professionalism, demonstrated by our 
responsiveness to concerns and use of plain 
and simple language.
“ All the staff I have met are 
all very professional and 
friendly. ” Gillingham
“The assistant … always 
goes the extra mile to 
make sure I am totally 
satisfied and is always very 
prompt and polite. ” Bolton
“Very professional made 
me feel at ease. ” Leigh
“Fantastic and helpful 
always has a friendly smile 
on their face, spectacular 
services and makes you 
feel welcome and a good 
friend. ” T uebrook
“Nothing is too much 
trouble. You very rarely 
get treated that way these 
days. ” Welling
“The staff member could 
not have been more 
professional and friendly. ” 
Brighton
PAWNBROkING 
Lent in 2014 
£94.5m
Pledge Book 
£38.5m
H&T Customers H&T GROUP PLC
08
OUR CUSTOmER FOCUSEd BUSINESS CONTINUED
H&T People
Our greatest asset is our people and we aim 
to continually develop and motivate all our 
employees to ensure we have a workforce  
who feel really valued by their employer. 
contInuouS develoPment  
oF tHe H&t academy 
E-learning continues to be a big part of our H&T 
Academy blended learning approach. Currently, 
the programme offers over 38 different modules 
that focus more on the theory of the subject 
leaving the workshops to be more practical. 
Over the last year our e-learning programme 
has been instrumental in helping the Company 
and staff to meet all the requirements of the new 
FCA compliance regulations.
current workSHoPS & 
develoPment ProgrammeS
The Company’s goal is still to provide the 
possible technical and behavioural training 
enabling our staff to perform their roles very 
effectively. Our library of internal workshops 
has increased from 18 to 22 focusing on 
pawnbroking basics, balanced with a large 
selection of managerial skillsets.
A cross selection of our workshops begin with 
our Stair Steps 1-3 programme, which focuses 
on the fundamentals including Welcome/Sales 
& Service, Intro to Diamonds, Intro to Watches, 
Buyback and Advanced Diamonds.
Moving on to Stair Steps 4&5, which offers 
more managerial and behavioural training 
and our MDP (Management Development 
Programme) and STAR Programme which 
offer workshops such as Intro to Management, 
Managing Your Team More Effectively, Intro 
to Training and Coaching and Financial and 
Commercial Awareness.
H&t’ s commItment to  
develoPIng our PeoPle 
We continually advance and assist staff to 
realise their potential. Our work with Learning & 
Development ensures our people are developed 
to support them in their roles. Throughout 2014 
we have continued to build on this offering, 
meeting the needs of the business and our 
people, this includes:
managerS tenure 
reward and recognItIon 
As well as offering competitive salaries we offer 
a generous benefits package, which includes: 
Employee Assistance Programme, enhanced 
sick and holiday pay, innovation scheme 
(successful ideas and suggestions can earn 
an employee up to a £1000 reward), health 
insurance for management, life assurance for 
all staff, monthly, quarterly and annual bonuses 
linked to profitability/KPIs, eye care vouchers, 
cycle to work scheme.
your voIce meetIngS 
We hold successful quarterly staff council 
meetings with representatives from across  
the country to hear staff suggestions, ideas  
and to discuss issues. These are highly 
productive and resourceful and give employees 
an opportunity to express their honest opinions 
to Management. 
17
9
12
19
24
121
£2.9m
BUyBACk VALUE  
PURCHASEd INCREASEd
our StaFF total 1,016
  Male 204
  Female 446
  Male 57
  Female 309
FULL TImE STAFF
TOTAL 650
PART TImE STAFF
TOTAL 366
0-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 5+ ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
09
Strategic report
nP a a wardS
H&T is proud to announce that 
in 2014, one of our Managers 
collected the “Rising Star”  
Award from the National 
Pawnbroker’s Association  
(NPA), demonstrating H&T’s 
passion for developing and supporting its 
people to their full potential.
ProgreSSIon and recognItIon
H&T’s retention strategy encourages its people 
to seek opportunities in the Company, across 
Stores and Head Office in order to enhance 
their skills. We advertise all available positions 
weekly to every employee in order to assist 
them in applying for these positions. 84% of 
our Deputy Manager and Store Manager roles 
were filled internally in 2014. 
ServIce PerFormance
2014 cuStomer SatISF actIon Survey 
The mystery shop programme was replaced in 2014 with an online customer satisfaction survey 
where customers rate us from 1 to 10 on questions grouped in each area, the average scores for  
the 4967 responses received in 2014 are:
knowledge Score
9.59
ProFeSSIonalISm Score
9.63
SatISF actIon Score
9.55
2013 myStery SHoP reSultS
Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 total
Number of Mystery Shops
Average Score 
Stores achieving 100% score
190
97.2%
142
192
98.4%
144
191
93.4%
100
193
97.2%
140
194
98.0%
142
960
96.8%
668
£2.4m
GOLd BUyING GROSS PROFIT
84%
OF dEPUTy ANd mANAGER 
ROLES FILLEd INTERNALLy
IN 2014 H&T GROUP PLC
10
THE STORE ESTATE
24.1%
SALES INCREASEd 
Practically, this means that where we enter 
a new market there are two main phases of 
development. The first is the initial acquisition 
or greenfield store followed by a period of 
development to provide a stable and successful 
team. The second phase is the consolidation of 
that market through the creation of a discrete 
area containing 8 to 15 stores.
This strategy has been demonstrated with 
focussed development in Glasgow, the North 
East and the North West.
The wider market is now experiencing lower 
returns due to a number of factors which will 
slow expansion in the short term as operators 
drive efficiency and a degree of consolidation. 
This is expected to provide acquisition 
opportunities for stores and for loan books.
A net three stores were closed in 2014 (2013: 
eight added) taking the total store estate size to 
191 stores.
H&T’s geographical development follows a clustering 
model. This is principally due to the need to support 
new stores with existing operational management 
and staff to maximise returns. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
11
Strategic report
London 
boroughs London
l  2014 stores
l  2009-2013 stores
l  2008 prior stores
  H&T converted to DSJ
  Brand new DSJ store H&T GROUP PLC
12
OUR COmmUNITIES
It has remained our ambition to provide as much support 
as we can to local and national charities and organisations. 
This continued throughout 2014 and the year was filled with 
an array of events, fun days and fundraising. 
of the 190 H&T stores across the UK before 
finally reaching the Company HQ in Sutton 
Surrey on Monday 11 August. The total raised 
was in excess of £20,000!
macmIllan coFFee mornIng On Friday 26 September we took part in the 
World’s Biggest Macmillan Coffee Morning.  
Tea, coffee, cakes and biscuits were baked, 
bought and shared in stores throughout the  
UK, raising over £5,000 for the charity.
cHrIStmaS collectIonS
Throughout December all stores were involved 
in collecting for a wide range of local charities, 
including boxes of food items for various food 
banks, hundreds of gifts for children in hospital and 
financial support and gifts for pensioner charities.
We have again exceeded all expectations  
and raised thousands of pounds for a number 
of organisations. Examples of some of the 
successes are listed below:
eaSter egg collectIon
Throughout March 2014 all H&T Pawnbrokers 
stores were involved in collecting Easter Eggs 
and toys to give poorly children a special treat. 
The team collected over 7,000 Easter Eggs and 
toys for various children’s charities and hospitals 
nationwide. 
natIonwIde Baton relay In aid of Cancer Research UK, we carried  
out a nationwide baton relay between stores. 
Starting in the North West, staff ran, jumped, 
and skipped, danced and silly walked to each   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
13
Strategic report
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW
H&T’s continued investment in our people, stores  
and systems has provided a platform for growth  
in this rapidly evolving market.
IntroductIon
The alternative credit market is undergoing  
a seismic shift as it adjusts to a very different 
high street trading environment, a lower gold 
price and a new regulator. These factors have 
already reduced earnings across much of the 
sector and the impact of the interest rate cap  
on pay day loans will put some businesses 
under further pressure in 2015.
Profit before tax for the period fell to £5.5m 
(2013: £6.7m), a fall of 17.9%, principally as a 
result of reduced profits from our Pawnbroking 
Scrap and Gold Purchasing operations. 
 
The Group has responded well to protect 
earnings in the short term through effective cost 
control and a focus on jewellery retail, while 
making appropriate investments to develop the 
business through a focus on products, service 
and distribution.
H&T has always sought to be the customer’s 
first choice for pawnbroking services by 
providing high quality locations with 
professional, knowledgeable and approachable 
staff. H&T has enhanced this proposition by 
expanding other services including our new 
personal loan, foreign exchange and buyback. 
This level of development has not affected the 
quality of service, as demonstrated by our 
independent customer research which shows 
customer satisfaction significantly outperforming 
the specialty retailers’ benchmark.
Our store estate of 191 stores comprises  
152 H&T Pawnbrokers stores and 39 est1897 
second hand jewellery retail stores. During 
the year we have closed eight stores, opened 
one H&T Pawnbrokers store, opened three 
standalone est1897 stores and acquired one 
established pawnbroking business.
The Group has launched its online valuation 
service, its Personal Loans product, est1897 
retail site and the ‘My H&T‘ customer portal in 
H2 2014. These developments enhance our 
online capability and provide our customers 
with the ability to interact with us in the way 
they find most convenient. The main focus for 
2015 will be driving adoption of these services 
through effective online and offline marketing 
and communication.
We believe that the high quality of investment 
made in our stores, systems and people has 
provided a strong platform for growth. While 
we will have to adapt aspects of our business 
model we believe we are well positioned to 
take advantage of the market disruption seen 
to date.
£45.7m
GROSS PROFIT
  Pawnbroking 62.2%
  Retail 23.4%
  Gold Purchasing 5.2%
  Pawnbroking Scrap - 0.5%
  Personal Loans 3.9%
  Other Services 5.8%
GROSS PROFIT
BREAkdOWN H&T GROUP PLC
14
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued tHe market
H&T provides a range of options for customers 
to raise the cash they need, whether using 
an asset or taking out an unsecured loan. 
The pricing of our loan products is among the 
lowest in the sector, particularly versus larger 
chains, and almost without exception the 
1.6m customers of pay day lenders would be 
substantially better off taking a loan with H&T 
instead.
The Board believe that the wider alternative 
credit market is likely to undergo significant 
change in the coming year primarily due to the 
implementation of the FCA’ s interest rate cap. 
The FCA has stated that “it is possible that one 
high-street firm may be able to operate” at the 
0.8% per day cap, we would therefore anticipate 
store closures in that segment of the wider 
sector. 
The Board believes that the financial stability 
of the Group, our range of products and our 
outstanding service delivery position us to take 
advantage of these market conditions.
our Strategy
The Group’ s strategy is to serve a customer 
base whose access to mainstream credit is 
limited and for whom small sum loans can help 
get through short term financial problems. The 
Group will deliver this strategy by developing a 
range of lending products, both secured and 
unsecured, offered in-store and online. 
 
The development of a strong retail proposition 
supports our lending and purchasing 
operations, improves returns and reduces the 
Groups exposure to gold price volatility. The 
development of the standalone est1897 brand 
could play an important part of this strategy in 
the future.
The Group will address the low returns on capital 
over the medium term by increasing earnings 
through product development, release of capital 
in underperforming units and reinvestment into 
high return areas.
regulatIon
The FinanciaL conducT auThoriTy The regulation of Consumer Credit moved 
from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial 
Conduct Authority on 1 April 2014. The Group 
has obtained interim permission from the 
FCA and has submitted its application for full 
authorisation in February 2015.
The Group has appointed a Compliance 
Manager and established a Risk Committee 
comprised of independent non-executive 
directors to oversee the compliance framework 
and our preparation for authorisation. Our non-
executive directors have extensive experience 
with the regulatory requirements of the FCA 
and its predecessors and provide the Group 
with valuable support and insight into the new 
regime. 
high cosT shor T Term crediT 
inTeresT ra Te cap
On 11 November 2014 the FCA published its 
rules relating to a cap on the interest rate and 
charges that apply to High Cost Short T erm 
Credit (“HCSTC”). The rules took effect from  
2 January 2015 and provide for:
• a maximum charge of 0.8% per day on the 
amount borrowed
• a maximum of £15 fees on default
• a cap on the total costs incurred over the life 
of the loan of 100% of the amount borrowed
The definition of HCSTC is broad but provides a 
specific exemption for pawnbroking and certain 
other credit products at present; we do not 
expect the cap to apply to pawnbroking in the 
near term.
The Group’ s personal loan product must 
conform to the cap although our relatively 
low rates of interest compared with the wider 
alternative credit market mean that the cap has 
almost no impact on our earnings. 
revIew oF oPeratIonS
During the year the average gold price was £768 
per troy oz (2013: £903), a fall of 15.0 %. This 
reduction impacts on the profit derived from 
pawnbroking scrap and purchasing and is the 
principal reason for the reduction in gross profits 
to £45.7m (2013: £49.9m), a fall of 8.4%.
PawnBrokIng
The pledge book has reduced 12.7% to £38.5m 
(2013: £44.1m) as a result of the competitive 
environment, a lower lending rate per gram and 
a reduction in aged pledge. The rate of reduction 
has slowed significantly during the course of the 
year, the June 2014 balance was £38.5m, as 
lending has stabilised during 2014.
The Group’ s Pawn Service Charge was  
down 1.0% to £28.4m (2013: £28.7m) and 
now represents 62.1% of Group gross profit 
(2013: 57.4%). The interest component of the 
Pawn Service Charge declined 3.8% to £28.2m 
(2013: £29.3m) which more accurately reflects 
the underlying performance of the pawnbroking 
segment than the total Pawn Service Charge. 
The yield on the pledge book has increased due 
to the improved ageing profile of the book and 
the higher average rate of interest.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
15
Strategic report
The store based competitive environment for 
pawnbroking peaked in early 2013 following 
which the fall in the price of gold impacted both 
demand and the level of security available to 
support the loan value. T otal lending in 2014 
reduced 9.1% to £94.5m (2013: £104.0m) and 
the average lending rate per gram reduced by 
6.7% as we sought to maintain a reasonable 
loan to value ratio.
The Group implemented a number of initiatives 
during the year to support the pawnbroking 
proposition:
1) Implementation of “Expert Eye”, a system 
which enables high definition magnified 
images to be sent from a store to our centre 
of excellence at the jewellery centre where 
the images are assessed and with telephone 
support the store is able to make a better 
loan decision
2) The development of the “We lend on 
anything” valuation portal on the website 
where customers can submit an item for 
valuation
3) The development of mobile apps both 
for iOS and Android phones to enable 
customers to photograph items and submit 
to us for valuation
4) During October 2014 the sponsorship of  
the “Pawn Stars UK” TV programme and  
a promotional relationship with the stars for 
personal appearances and web referrals
 
The Group has developed these platforms 
to provide ways to enhance our customers 
engagement and maximise the returns from our 
marketing investments. The development of the 
“My H&T” customer portal to allow customers to 
view and manage their pawnbroking loans online 
together with the launch of online pawnbroking 
in Q2 2015 will provide further convenience and 
provide access to a wider customer base.
PawnBrokIng ScraP
Pawnbroking Scrap produced a loss in the year 
of £0.2m (2013: £1.8m profit). 
This loss was expected in light of the relatively 
higher rate per gram on forfeited items against 
the gold price. We would not expect margins on 
pawnbroking scrap to return to historical levels 
as we seek to maintain a competitive proposition 
on lending and support the pledge book.
retaIl
Retail sales increased 24.1% to £30.9m (2013: 
£24.9m) and gross profit increased 8.1% to 
£10.7m (2013: £9.9m).
Retail has been a real success in 2014 as we 
seek to rebalance the business away from its 
exposure to the gold price and drive revenues in 
the short term. The changing business mix and 
the complex interaction of VAT schemes in the 
business resulted in an additional VAT cost in 
the year of approximately £1.9m. VAT has been 
a net recovery in recent years and was netted 
against expenses whereas VAT payable on sales 
has now been deducted from the retail sales. 
The Group considers a successful retail offering 
to be a core part of our Group proposition. 
Pawnbroking and Gold Purchasing both 
generate significant amounts of saleable 
jewellery which must be sold. While higher 
historic gold prices provided a reasonable return 
from scrapping gold, this disposition route is 
not suitable for gemset items or watches. The 
ability to retail items rather than scrap them also 
provides a higher return and reduces the Group’ s 
exposure to short term gold price volatility.
The principal drivers for growth have been:
1) Increased stock in store: Through effective 
working capital management we have 
reduced stock in process, transit or central 
locations to allow an 19.7% increase in 
average store stock in 2014 vs 2013 with  
a 2.6% reduction in overall stock holding
2) ‘est1897’ retail brand: During the year we 
rebranded 36 H&T Pawnbrokers stores 
and built 3 standalone stores in shopping 
centre locations. Whilst too early to judge 
their performance, these stores provided 
retail sales growth higher than the Company 
average
3) Pricing Strategy Improvements: We have 
developed more sophisticated methods to 
deliver effective pricing and discount policies 
in store to maximise sales and margin. This 
remains a key focus as we seek to maximise 
overall gross profits from this area
ENd OF PERIOd STERLING GOLd PRICE  
(£ per troy oz)
985.1
673.4
897.7
1,019.7
727.2
773.0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 H&T GROUP PLC
16
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued The Group also launched a fully transactional 
website www.est1897.co.uk in September 2014 
which is used to showcase the exceptional items 
available from our stores.
gold PurcHaSIng Gold Purchasing gross profit declined to £2.4m 
(2013: £4.8m) as a result of four key factors:
1) Gold price reduction: The average gold price 
was £768 per troy ounce during 2014 (2013: 
£903 per troy ounce) a reduction of 15.0% 
which impacts on the gross profit available 
on each transaction
2) Closure of GoldBar: The retail mall units 
contributed £0.7m of profit in 2013 and were 
closed as volumes decreased during the 
course of that year
3) Competitive Pressure: The margin derived 
from Gold Purchasing reduced from 19.5%  
in 2013 to 17.9% in 2014
4) Changing business mix: The increased cost 
of goods sold through retail means that a 
higher proportion of profits are realised in the 
retail segment rather than Gold Purchasing. 
Cost of goods sold through retail increased 
by 34.7% from 2013 to 2014
We estimate that the weight of fine gold 
purchased in like for like H&T stores fell by 1.7% 
from 2013 to 2014, with the trend in fine gold 
weight being encouraging since January 2014.
While Gold Purchasing has never been 
considered a core revenue stream for the 
Group we would expect that the improvements 
delivered to support pawnbroking and retail will 
also support Gold Purchasing. 
PerSonal loanS
The Personal Loans segment comprises all 
unsecured lending activity in the Group, including 
the pay day loan product which was withdrawn 
in September 2013. Gross profit fell to £1.8m 
(2013: £2.9m).
The Group took the decision in early 2013 to 
simplify its unsecured loan offering from the 
Pay Day Advance and KwikLoan products to 
the new more flexible Personal Loan which is 
tailored to a customer’ s personal circumstances. 
The product provides loans from £50 to £1,000 
over any term of up to two years, subject to 
affordability checks. 
The H&T Personal Loan may be taken out for 
periods of less than a year and as the APR on 
the loans is more than 100% a proportion of 
our lending falls within the FCA definition of High 
Cost Short T erm Credit (“HCSTC”), as such 
the interest rate cap applies to those loans. We 
estimate that approximately 1% of our lending in 
2014 would have been restricted by the loan cap 
where they were small amounts and very short 
term (up to two months). We have now reviewed 
the pricing of our products to ensure that all 
loans are fully compliant and our products remain 
competitive in the context of the new market.
The Personal Loan product was launched online 
in August 2014 and will provide a key medium 
term opportunity.
otHer ServIceS
Other Services includes Third Party Cheque 
Cashing, Foreign Exchange, Buyback, Western 
Union and other income. T otal gross profit from 
Other Services was £2.7m (2013: £1.8m), 
the increase being generated from Foreign 
Exchange and Buyback activities, both new 
products launched in 2013.
Third Party Cheque Cashing gross profits 
reduced 8% to £1.1m (2013: £1.2m) as the 
number of cheques in circulation reduced. 
Foreign Exchange continues to grow with an 
increase in gross profits of 167% to £0.8m 
(2013: £0.3m). This simple transactional product 
brings new customers and revenues into H&T’ s 
stores without detracting from the core services.
Buyback has been a particular success as 
part of the wider strategic development of the 
“We buy anything” proposition. Gross profits 
increased to £0.5m (2013: £0.1m) as the value 
purchased increased to £2.9m (2013: £0.7m) 
and brought a new customer base to H&T . 
Buyback customers are younger – (57% are 
35 or under vs 33% in Pawnbroking) and more 
likely to be male – (63% are male vs 40% in 
Pawnbroking).
ProSPectS
The Group has made good progress in delivering 
our strategy described above with the initial 
development complete on a range of initiatives 
to develop our position as the UKs leading 
pawnbroker. The challenge for 2015 is to ensure 
that the investment to date yields tangible results 
to drive earnings growth and improve returns 
from the store estate.
We believe that the wider market is stabilising 
and future changes will be positive for the Group 
and we have built a solid platform for growth. 
Current trading is in line with management’ s 
expectations for 2015.
I would also like to add my great thanks to those 
of the Chairman, in recognising all our people 
whose skills, commitment and enthusiasm 
continue to drive our success, and who give  
us confidence in the future. 
JoHn g nIcHolS
Chief Executive
Store develoPment
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Acquired
New Stores
Closed
–
17
–
1
12
–
1
24
–
6
22
(2)
3
5
–
1
4
(8)
estate t otal 122 135 160 186 194 191 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
17
Strategic report
FInancIal reSultS
For the year ended 31 December 2014 we 
have delivered £5.5m profit before tax, down 
17.9% from £6.7m in 2013 primarily as a result 
of the reduced gold price and competitive 
environment.
The Group has taken a measured approach to 
cost reduction in the year resulting in total direct 
and administrative expenses being £2.9m lower 
than in 2013. The reduction is mainly a result of 
the closure of GoldBar and the costs associated 
with the closure of underperforming stores 
provided for at 31 December 2013.
Finance costs reduced to £708k (2013: £842k) 
as a result of improved terms on the new four 
year credit agreement signed in January 2013 
together with a lower average loan balance 
through the year.
caSH Flow
The Group generated positive cash flow from 
operating activities of £14.4m (2013: £15.4m). 
Working capital movements produced an 
inflow of £6.2m (2013: £6.9m) in the year, the 
main component of these movements in each 
year being the change in the pledge balance. 
Effective stock management enabled us to 
increase retail sales whilst reducing the overall 
level of stock in the business. Movement in 
inventories represented an inflow of £0.4m 
(2013: £3.4m outflow). 
Balance SHeet
As at 31 December 2014 the Group had net 
assets of £90.9m (2013: £88.1m) with period 
end net debt of £9.7m (2013: £20.7m) delivering 
a reduction in gearing to 10.6% (2013: 23.5%) 
(see note 27). This reduction was planned in 
order to de-risk the balance sheet in light of the 
challenging market conditions.
On 30 January 2013 the Group entered into 
a new four year facility with Lloyds Bank plc 
allowing for maximum borrowings of £50.0m, 
subject to covenants, at a margin of between 
1.25% and 2.25% above LIBOR. At year end 
£16.0m was drawn on the facility and the Group 
was well within the covenants with a net debt 
to EBITDA ratio of 0.99x and interest to EBITDA 
ratio of 17.6x. 
The combination of low gearing and a secure 
long term credit facility provides the Group with 
the ability to make selective investments in the 
future whilst maintaining appropriate headroom.
InveStmentS 
During the year the Group completed one 
acquisition comprising one store and two 
pawnbroking loan books for a total consideration 
of £0.5m. The Group also opened four new 
stores and closed eight stores during the year 
taking the total store estate to 191 units.
ImP aIrment
The reduced gold price has impacted the 
earnings of the Group and of the stores that 
have been acquired historically. The Group 
performs an annual review of the expected 
earnings of each acquired store and considers 
whether the associated goodwill and other 
property, plant and equipment are impaired. As 
at 31 December 2014 the Group impaired the 
value of one store which was acquired in 2012. 
The total value of the impairment was £129k.
SHare PrIce and ePS
At 31 December 2014 the share price was 
160.0p (2013: 143.5p) and market capitalisation 
was £59.0m (2013: £52.9m). Basic earnings 
per share was 11.78p (2013: 13.44p), diluted 
earnings per share was 11.78p (2013: 13.40p) 
and diluted net assets per share equated to 
247p (2013: 243p). 
The Group’ s market capitalisation remained 
below net asset value during the year as the 
continued pressure on earnings depressed 
market confidence. The Board believe that the 
action taken to stabilise the pledge book, drive 
alternative earning streams, control costs and 
de-risk the balance sheet will build confidence.
Steve Fenerty
Finance Director
FINANCE dIRECTOR’S REVIEW
H&T’s continued investment in our people, stores  
and systems have provided a platform for growth  
in this rapidly evolving market. H&T GROUP PLC
18
RISkS ANd UNCERTAINTIES
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the 
Group’s risk management framework, including 
reviewing its effectiveness, however it has 
delegated responsibility for annually reviewing 
the overall effectiveness of the risk management 
programme to the Audit Committee. The 
internal audit function provides assurance to 
PrIncIP al rISkS and uncertaIntIeS
 area deScrIPtIon oF rISk eXamPleS oF mItIgatIng actIvItIeS
Regulatory 
Compliance
Failure to obtain FCA Authorisation or to 
comply with the ongoing requirements
• Experienced management team with significant industry experience and 
knowledge, recruitment of compliance manager
• Internal Audit and Compliance functions
• Extensive training and monitoring
• High quality software systems to support compliant behaviour
• Use of standard approved documentation
•   Membership of Trade Associations to ensure the business is aware of current 
requirements
Pawnbroking Increasing competition •   Continual monitoring at store level
•   Expansion strategy to maintain H&T’s position as one of the industry  
key players
•   Maintenance of a high level of customer service
Potential changes in regulatory environment •   Continual monitoring and lobbying
Fall in the gold price affecting existing 
pledge security and future lending levels
•   Monitoring of gold price at Board level
• Maintenance of appropriate margin between pledge value and gold price
• Lending on alternative high value items
Fall in the gold price affecting scrap margin •   Review possible use of hedging instruments
•   Focus on increasing redemption rates to minimise reliance on disposition
•   Increase retail sales as a disposition hedge
Decline in retail sales •   Excess stock scrapped to recover value lent
Fall in pawnbroking redemption •   Increase in disposition through retail, auction and scrap activities
Increased availability of Gold Purchasing 
option for consumers
•   Pawnbroking is a long established business model, with pawnbroking 
customers being distinct from purchasing customers
•   Experienced management team with significant industry knowledge
Cash, pledge book 
and retail inventory
Physical security of all assets • High level of investment in security systems
• Insurance
Insufficient pledge securities •  Staff training and pledge tests
•  Monitoring of established lending criteria
•  Internal audit function reviewing individual pledges on average twice a year
the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the 
internal control procedures through completion 
of the annual internal audit plan, which takes 
into account current business risks.
The table below sets out the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and how we 
mitigate them. This is not an exhaustive analysis 
of all the risks the Group may face as there may 
be additional risks and uncertainties that are not 
presently known to the Board or have not been 
included in this section on the basis that they 
are not considered to be material.
The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures 
that these are appropriately managed by the executive 
management team.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
19
Strategic report
FInancIal rISk management 
oBJectIveS and PolIcIeS
The Group’s activities expose it to a number of 
financial risks including interest rate risk, credit 
risk, liquidity risk and price risk. The use of 
financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the board of directors, 
which provide written principles on the use 
of financial derivatives to manage these risks. 
The Group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
A summary of the principal financial risks is 
provided below. Further detailed discussion is 
provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
 area deScrIPtIon oF rISk eXamPleS oF mItIgatIng actIvItIeS
Cheque Cashing 
and unsecured 
lending
Significant worsening of bad debts •  Investment in IT systems
•  Staff training
•  Continual monitoring of bad debts and lending criteria
Decline in third party cheque encashment 
business
•   On-going reduction in overall business mix and replacement by new  
services and products
Gold Purchasing Increasing competition impacting on 
volumes purchased and margins achieved
•  Constant monitoring of competitor’s pricing
•  Progressive marketing strategies
Fall in the sterling gold price adversely 
impacting scrap margins
•   Adjust purchase price offered to compensate for market movements in  
gold price
•  Possible use of hedging instruments
Business 
operations
Back office and communication systems 
failure
•  Established IT disaster recovery plan
•  Systems designed with no single point of failure
People Succession, retention and capability •  High investment in on-going training
•  Performance related pay package
•  Share-based incentive plans
Safety & security of employees being 
placed at threat
•  No. of in store deterrents to deter violent intruders (CCTV , alarms, safes, fog)
•  Employer and public liability insurance in place
•  Group policy of no remonstration
Financing Potential increase in cost of financing due 
to borrowings being on a floating rate
•   Use of hedging instruments where appropriate  
(interest rate swap)
Bank funding is subject to strict financial 
covenants
•   Regular forecasting exercise and regular communication with the  
financing bank
Financing bank going bankrupt •   Review of existing financing facilities and possible use of syndicated banking 
reguLa Tory risk
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved 
from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial 
Conduct Authority on 1 April 2014. The Group 
has obtained interim permission from the 
FCA and has submitted its application for full 
authorisation in February 2015.
The Group has appointed a Compliance 
Manager and established a Risk Committee 
comprised of independent non-executive 
directors to oversee the compliance 
framework and our preparation for 
authorisation. Our non-executive directors 
have extensive experience with the regulatory 
requirements of the FCA and its predecessors 
and provide valuable support and insight into 
the new regime.
The Group would be unable to operate its 
consumer credit products if the application  
for authorisation is declined.
inTeresT ra Te risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to 
the financial risks of changes in interest rates. 
Finance costs have reduced as a result of 
lower interest rates and lower loan balances 
and at present the Board does not consider it 
necessary to enter into a hedging arrangement. 
This position is reviewed by the Board on a 
regular basis. H&T GROUP PLC
20
RISkS ANd UNCERTAINTIES continued FInancIal rISk management 
oBJectIveS and PolIcIeS 
(contInued)
crediT risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank 
balances and cash, trade and other receivables. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables, the most significant of 
which are the pledge book, the Personal Loan 
book and Cheque Cashing balances. In all 
cases, exposure on trade and other receivables 
is spread over a large number of counterparties 
and customers.
The risk attributable to the pledge book is 
further mitigated due to the presence of 
collaterals (the customer’s pledges) which can 
be easily liquidated in almost all cases at a profit. 
The risks attached to the unsecured Personal 
Loan book are mitigated by the continual 
monitoring of bad debts and a possible 
modification of lending criteria. The Group 
performs an external credit check prior to 
lending. Similar procedures mitigate the risks 
associated with Cheque Cashing activities.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet 
are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. 
An allowance for impairment is made where 
there is an identified loss event which, based on 
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative 
financial instruments is considered to be low 
as funds are held with financial institutions with 
high credit-ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies to the Group’s bankers as 
shown below:
The Group has no significant concentration 
of credit risk other than on bank balances of 
£151,000 (2013: £335,000) with Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc, £3,728,621 with Barclays Bank 
plc (2013: £3,953,000) and (£1,859,757) (2013: 
£29,000) with Lloyds Bank plc. 
LiquidiTy risk
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that 
sufficient funds are available for ongoing 
operations and future developments, the Group 
uses a mixture of long-term and short-term debt 
finance. At 31 December 2014, the Group had 
sufficient headroom on its current borrowings 
and remains in full compliance with all loan 
covenants.
Furthermore, the Company will review at the 
appropriate time, the possibility of raising future 
equity finance or refinance existing banking 
facilities to expand activities.
price risk
With regard to the current balance sheet 
position, the Group is not exposed to price 
risk, as the majority of its jewellery and all of its 
scrap gold is obtained through unredeemed 
pledges, which have a cost to the Group which 
is lower than the retail value. The Group is 
however exposed to adverse movements in 
the price of gold in its gold scrap activities and 
the value of the pledge collaterals. Should the 
price of gold drop significantly, the Group can 
mitigate that risk by changing its lending policy 
on pawnbroking pledges or by entering hedging 
instruments. Currently the Group has no gold 
hedge in place, although this is reviewed by the 
Board on a regular basis.
exchange ra Te risk
While the Group’s activities are wholly 
conducted in the United Kingdom, the Group 
is impacted by foreign currency exchange rates 
affecting the gold price exchange from USD 
to GBP and the revaluation of foreign currency 
cash holdings in store.
StrategIc rePort aPProval
The Strategic Report incorporates the Financial 
Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement, the 
Chief Executive’s Report, the Finance Director’s 
Report and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board
Steve Fenerty
Company Secretary
4 March 2015
moody’s crediT ra Ting
Barclays Bank plc 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
a2
Baa1
a1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
21
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
dIRECTORS, OFFICERS ANd Ad VISERS 
StePHen a Fenerty
Finance direcTor, 41
Stephen trained with KPMG’s banking and finance team and is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants, since then he has pursued a variety of management roles in the alternative 
credit sector. Stephen joined H&T in March 2005 as Commercial Director before taking on the role 
as Finance Director in December 2013. Stephen has direct responsibility for finance, IT, unsecured 
lending, acquisitions, compliance and credit risk. 
JoHn g nIcHolS
chieF execuTive, 64
After an early career in the RAF , John entered the leisure industry with the Rank Organisation where 
he held several senior executive positions. 
John joined H&T as Managing Director in 1997 and subsequently became Chief Executive. He has 
been instrumental in developing and implementing the business strategy and delivering consistent 
growth in revenues and profitability. He has also been instrumental in the initiative to obtain the 
ISO9001 and Investors in People Gold accreditations. 
Peter d mcnamara
chairman, 64
Peter spent the majority of his career with Lloyds Bank plc, as chief manager for strategic planning, 
mergers and acquisitions, and then as the managing director of Personal Banking. He subsequently 
served as group managing director of the Alliance & Leicester plc and Chief Executive of Wesleyan 
Assurance Society, a mutual life insurance business. In 2002 he left to become Chairman and 
subsequently executive Chairman of Moneybox plc, the leading ATM deployer operating in the UK, 
Germany and the Netherlands, which he led to flotation on AIM.
In 2006 he set up a new ATM business, Notemachine Ltd and is the CEO.
malcolm l Berryman
non-execuTive direcTor, 60
Malcolm is currently a Non-Executive Director at Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust and runs  
his own consultancy business primarily involved in life and general insurance. Between 1990 and 
2005, he was Chief Executive of two Insurers, Liverpool Victoria and Crown Financial Management. 
He qualified as an Actuary in 1983.
JameS F tHornton
non-execuTive direcTor, 57
James is currently a Director at Hannam and Partners LLP , a position he has held since 2009. 
Previously James held senior positions with Lord Ashcroft KCMG associated companies - Anne 
Street Partners and Global Health Partner plc. He has more than fifteen years of experience in UK 
financial services including UK Finance Director at Old Mutual plc and as Head of Foreign Exchange 
at IFX plc. James is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
eXecutIve dIrectorS
non-eXecutIve dIrectorS H&T GROUP PLC
22
dIRECTORS, OFFICERS ANd Ad VISERS continued regIStered and Head oFFIce 
H&T Group plc
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: +44 (0) 870 9022 600
Broker and nomInated advISer
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
legal advISerS to tHe grouP 
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP
Adelaide House
London Bridge
London 
EC4R 9HA
IndePendent audItor
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Global House
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 1DL
BankerS 
Lloyds Bank plc
25 Gresham St
London
EC2V 7HN
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
2nd Floor, Brunel House
17/27 Station Road
Reading
Berkshire
RG1 1LG
regIStrarS 
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
PuBlIc relatIonS 
Haggie Partners LLP
4 Sun Court
66 – 67 Cornhill
London
EC3V 3NB
Registered and Head Office and Advisers ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
23
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
corporate governance
The directors recognise the importance 
of adopting good corporate governance 
practices in the best interests of all 
shareholders. Although the Company is not 
required to report on compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) 
since its shares are traded on the AIM market, 
the Company applies the principles of sound 
Corporate Governance in the following ways:
Directors
the BoarD
The Board comprises two executive directors 
and three non-executive directors. Their 
biographies appear on page 21. A review 
of these shows a range of experience and 
expertise sufficient to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct which 
is vital to the success of the Group. The 
three non-executive directors each hold 
shares as disclosed on page 25. However, 
because the number of shares held is small, 
there is no entitlement to share options for 
non-executives, and there are no cross 
directorships between executive and 
non-executive directors, the non-executive 
directors are considered to be independent. 
BoarD meetings
The Board is responsible to the shareholders 
for the proper management of the Group.  
A Directors’ responsibilities statement in 
respect of the financial statements is set out  
in this Annual Report on page 30. 
The Board meets 10 times during the year. 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, 
all directors receive appropriate and timely 
information. Briefing papers are distributed to 
all directors in advance of the Board meetings. 
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved 
to the Board which include the determination 
of strategy, approval of new stores and 
acquisitions, approval of budget and major 
capital expenditure. 
At Board meetings, the agenda normally 
comprises a review of the management 
financial statements, a CEO review of 
operations, a review of new store proposals 
and potential acquisitions and an update on 
the progress of the Group’s other strategic 
objectives. 
The Board meetings in August and February 
cover the approval of the interim and 
preliminary financial results respectively and 
the November meeting deals with the approval 
of the annual budget.
The following committees deal with the specific 
aspects of the Group’s affairs:
RemuneRation Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
three independent non-executive directors  
of the Company. The members of the 
Committee are:
•	 Malcolm	L	Berryman	(Chairman)
•	 Peter	D	McNamara
•	 James	F	Thor nton
The Committee meets at least twice in each 
year and at such other times as the Chairman 
of the Committee sees fit.
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed 
by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. The quorum for the 
Committee is two.
 
The duties of the Committee are to:
•	 determine	and	agr ee	with	the	Boar d	
the framework or broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman, executive 
directors and any employees that the 
Board delegates to it;
•	 within	the	terms	of	the	agr eed	policy ,	
determine individual remuneration 
packages including bonuses, incentive 
payments, share options, pension 
arrangements and any other benefits;
•	 determine	the	contractual	terms	on	
termination and individual termination 
payments, ensuring that the duty of 
the individual to mitigate loss is fully 
recognised;
•	 in	determining	individual	packages	and	
arrangements, give due regard to the 
comments and recommendations of  
the Code;
•	 be	told	of	and	be	given	the	chance	to	
advise on any major changes in employee 
benefit structures in the Company;
•	 r ecommend	and	monitor	the	level	and	
structure of remuneration for senior 
managers below Board level as 
determined;
•	 agr ee	the	policy	for	authorising	claims	for	
expenses from the Chief Executive and 
from the Chairman of the Board; and
•	 r ecommend	an	annual	r eport	for	the	
Board to put to Shareholders on executive 
remuneration compliant with relevant legal 
and regulatory provisions.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
•	 seek	any	information	it	r equir es	fr om	any	
employee of the Group in order to perform 
its duties;
•	 be 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 establishing 	 the	 
selection criteria and then for selecting, 
appointing and setting the terms of 
reference for any remuneration consultants 
providing advice to the Committee, at the 
Group’s expense; and
•	 obtain,	at	the	Gr oup’ s	expense,	outside	
legal or other professional advice where 
necessary in the course of its activities.
audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three 
independent non-executive directors  
of the Company. The members of the 
Committee are:
•	 James	F	Thor nton	(Chairman)
•	 Malcolm	L	Berryman	
•	 Peter	D	McNamara
The Audit Committee reviews each year 
the arrangements for safeguarding auditor 
objectivity and independence. The Audit 
Committee reviews the scope, results 
and cost-effectiveness of internal and 
external audit, and has delegated power 
from the Board to exercise the power from 
shareholders to agree fees for external 
auditors. The Audit Committee is responsible 
for satisfying itself on the independence 
and objectivity of external auditors and 
the independence of internal auditors. As 
directed by the Audit Committee, the principal 
function of the Group’s internal audit team is 
to verify the physical presence and control 
procedures surrounding the cash, pledge and 
stock balances within stores and the Group’s 
Jewellery	Centr e.	The	Committee	r eviews	the	
operation of internal controls and reports to 
the Board on the annual review of the internal 
control and risk management.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee comprises three 
independent non-executive directors of the 
Company. The members of the Committee 
are:
•	 Malcolm	L	Berryman	(Chairman)
•	 Peter	D	McNamara	
•	 James	F	Thor nton
  H&T GROUP PLC
24
corporate governance continued The Risk Committee is responsible for 
reviewing and reporting to the Board on:
•	 the	Gr oup’ s	risk	appetite	(the	extent	and	
categories of risk which the Board regards 
as acceptable for the Company to bear); 
•	 the	Gr oup’ s	risk	management	and	inter nal	
controls framework (it’s principles, policies, 
methodologies, systems, processes, 
procedures and people); and
•	 in	r espect	of	the	pr ocesses	and	
procedures, the arrangements for the 
identification, assessment, monitoring 
management and oversight of risk. 
The Committee should make recommendations 
to the Board in respect of all risks faced by the 
Company outside of its declared risk appetite.
nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises  
three independent non-executive directors  
of the Company. The members of the 
Committee are:
•	 Peter	D	McNamara	(Chairman)
•	 Malcolm	L	Berryman
•	 James	F	Thor nton
The function of the Nomination Committee is 
to provide a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board. In carrying out its 
duties, the Nomination Committee is primarily 
responsible for:
•	 identifying	and	nominating	candidates	 
to fill Board vacancies;
•	 evaluating	the	structur e	and	composition	
of the Board with regard to the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience and 
making recommendations accordingly;
•	 r eviewing	the	time	r equir ements	of	non-
executive directors;
•	 giving	full	consideration	to	succession	
planning; and
•	 r eviewing	the	leadership	of	the	Gr oup.
internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible 
for the Group’s system of internal control 
and for the continuing process of reviewing 
the effectiveness of the internal controls. 
Internal control systems are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. The directors confirm that they have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the systems  
of internal control that have been in  
operation during the year. The Group has  
an internal audit function principally for 
periodic store visits. 
inteRnal ContRol: finanCial The internal control process has been 
reviewed and its main features are:
•	 Financial	Reporting:	ther e	is	a	
comprehensive budgeting system with  
an annual budget approved by the Board. 
Monthly trading results are reported against 
the corresponding figures for the budget 
and previous year. The Board also reviews 
re-forecasts on a regular basis.
•	 Capital	Expenditur e:	ther e	is	a	
comprehensive budgeting system for 
capital expenditure with an annual budget 
approved by the Board. The Finance 
Director authorises individual items of 
capital expenditure and material items are 
also authorised by the Board or CEO.
•	 Cash	flow:	an	annual	cash	flow	for ecast	
is drawn up and approved by the Board 
and	actual	cash	flow	is	r eviewed	monthly	
against this forecast.
•	 Organisational	Structur e:	a	clear	
organisational structure with defined 
responsibilities and clear authority levels 
has been set.
•	 Stor e	Audits:	a	Stor es	Audit	function	exists	
to ensure that Group procedures regarding 
cash, pledges and stock handling are 
being adhered to. The store internal audits 
are performed biannually. 
 
inteRnal ContRol: Risk management 
During the year, the Group had in place 
formalised procedures to identify, evaluate 
and manage significant risks and to enable 
management to assess and regularly report 
to the Board on issues relating to business, 
operational, financial, regulatory and non-
compliance risks.
relations with shareholDers
The Board recognises the importance 
of communications with shareholders. 
The Chief Executive’s statement and the 
operational review on pages 13 to 16 include 
a detailed review of the business and future 
developments. There is a regular dialogue 
with institutional shareholders including 
presentations after the Group’s preliminary 
announcement of the year end results and  
at the half year results. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
25
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
Directors’ report
The directors present their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014.
PrinciP al activities anD review  
of the Business
The main activities of the Group continue  
to	be	Pawnbr oking,	Gold	Pur chasing,	r etail	
of jewellery, Cheque Cashing, unsecured 
lending and other related services operated 
thr ough	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited.	The	
principal activity of the Company is that of a 
non-trading holding company for Harvey & 
Thompson	Limited	and	H&T	Finance	Limited.
A review of the business and its future 
development (including the information that 
fulfils the relevant requirements of section 
417 of the Companies Act 2006) is given in 
the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s 
Review and Finance Director’s Review on 
pages 2, 13-16 and 17.
DiviDenDs
The directors propose a final dividend of 2.7p 
(2013: 2.7p) per share subject to approval at 
the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015. 
This proposed dividend, in accordance with 
IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’ 
for the Group, and, FRS 21 ‘Events after the 
balance sheet date’ for the Company, has not 
been provided for in the attached financial 
statements. During the year, the Company 
paid the final dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2013 of 2.7p per share and  
an interim dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2014 of 2.1p per share  
(2013: 2.1p per share). 
caPital structure 
Details of the authorised share capital are 
shown in note 27 to the consolidated financial 
statements. The Company has one class of 
ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed 
income. Each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company.  
As disclosed in note 27, during the period  
no new ordinary shares (2013: 270,008) of 
£0.05 each were issued, called up and fully 
paid as part of the Group’s share option and 
long term incentive plans.
The nominal issued share capital as at  
31 December 2014 was £1,842,813  
(31 December 2013: £1,842,813).
As	at	31	January	2015,	the	Company	has	
been notified of the following voting rights by 
major shareholders of the Company:
 Percentage of
 voting rights and 
 issued share  
name of holder capital
 
Artemis Investment Management 17.9%
Fidelity Worldwide Investment 10.0%
Henderson Global Investors 9.6%
Baillie Gifford 6.6%
Fidelity Management & Research 6.0%
Directors 3.8%
NBIM 3.6%
Octopus Investments 3.6%
Hof Hoomeman Bankiers 2.6%
Paradigm	Capital	 2.3%
Details of employee share schemes are set out 
in note 28. Under these share schemes, there 
are currently potentially an additional 1,585,447 
shares that will be issued to current option 
holders at the call of the option holder. Under 
its Articles of Association, the Company has 
authority to allot under these share schemes, 
for cash, up to a maximum of 3,685,626 
ordinary shares without being required to 
offer such securities to all shareholders in 
accordance with statutory pre-emption rights.
 
On any date, no option may be granted under 
any share option scheme or long term incentive 
plan, if (as a result) the aggregate nominal value 
of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant 
to options granted during the previous 10 years 
under any share option scheme would exceed 
10% of the nominal value of the share capital  
of the Company in issue on that date.
There are no other potentially dilutive equity 
instruments in the Company in issue at  
31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013. 
No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all 
issued shares are fully paid. 
With regard to the appointment and 
replacement of directors, the Company is 
governed by its Articles of Association, the 
Companies Acts and related legislation and 
requires certain directors annually to retire 
by rotation. The Articles themselves may 
be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. 
There are a number of agreements that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control of the Company, such as commercial 
contracts, bank loan agreements, property 
lease arrangements and employees’ share 
plans. None of these are considered to be 
significant in terms of their likely impact 
on the business of the Group as a whole. 
Furthermore the directors are not aware of 
any agreements between the Company, or 
any other group company, and its directors 
or employees that provide for compensation 
for loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.
Directors anD their interests
The directors who served throughout the year 
and to the date of this report, except where 
otherwise stated, were as follows:
exeCutive J	G	Nichols
S A Fenerty
non-exeCutive P	D	McNamara		
M	L	Berryman		 	
J	F	Thor nton	
The directors hold the following notifiable beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:  
  at 1 January acquired Disposed of at 31 December
Director t ype of share 2014 in the year in the year  2014
J	G	Nichols	 Or dinary	5p	shar es	 1,066,050	 29,422	 (15,942)	 1,079,530
S A Fenerty Ordinary 5p shares 300,000 12,950 (7,017) 305,933
P	D	McNamara	 Or dinary	5p	shar es	 17,351	 —	 —	 17,351
M	L	Berryman	 Or dinary	5p	shar es	 2,000	 —	 —	 2,000
J	F	Thor nton	 Or dinary	5p	shar es	 5,000	 —	 —	 5,000 H&T GROUP PLC
26
Directors’ report continued Directors anD their interests (continueD)
As a result of the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes operated by the Group, the directors have a beneficial interest in the following 
options granted over ordinary shares in H&T Group plc:
       market
  granted exercised forfeited   price on
 at start during during during at end exercise date Date from
 of year the year year the year of year price exercised which expiry
Director no. no.  no. no. no. pence pence exercisable date
J g nichols         
-	2006	Scheme	 87,397	 —	 —	 —	 87,397	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
-	2007	Scheme	 78,390	 —	 —	 —	 78,390	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
-	2008	Scheme	 92,293	 —	 —	 —	 92,293	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
-	2009	Scheme	 87,628	 —	 —	 —	 87,628	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
-	2010	Scheme	 93,686	 —	 —	 —	 93,686	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
	 439,394	 —	 —	 —	 439,394	 	 	 	
s a fenerty         
-	2006	Scheme	 51,233	 —	 —	 —	 51,233	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
-	2007	Scheme	 45,517	 —	 —	 —	 45,517	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
-	2008	Scheme	 59,544	 —	 —	 —	 59,544	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
-	2009	Scheme	 61,855	 —	 —	 —	 61,855	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
-	2010	Scheme	 54,989	 —	 —	 —	 54,989	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
-	2011	Scheme	 11,476	 —	 —	 (11,476)	 —	 298.5p	 —	 19/4/2014	 18/4/2021
	 284,614	 —	 —	 (11,476)	 273,138	 	 	 	
         
No share options were granted to any director in 2013 and 2014.
The	following	dir ectors	have	also	a	beneficial	inter est	in	conditional	shar es	granted	as	part	of	the	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	(further	details	ar e	
provided within note 28):
      
    granted exercised forfeited   Date when
   at start during during during at end exercise conditional
   of year the year year the year of year price grant is
Director   no. no.  no. no. no. pence achievable
J g nichols       
-	2011	L TIP	 	 	 77,174	 —	 (29,422)	 (47,752)	 —	 —	 1/4/2014
-	2012	L TIP	 	 	 80,778	 —	 —	 —	 80,778	 —	 17/4/2015
-	2013	L TIP	 	 	 82,276	 —	 —	 —	 82,276	 —	 28/3/2016
	 	 	 240,228	 —	 (29,422)	 (47,752)	 163,054	 	
s a fenerty       
-	2011	L TIP	 	 	 33,973	 —	 (12,950)	 (21,023)	 —	 —	 1/4/2014
-	2012	L TIP	 	 	 40,301	 —	 —	 —	 40,301	 —	 17/4/2015
-	2013	L TIP	 	 	 41,048	 —	 —	 —	 41,048	 —	 28/3/2016
	 	 	 115,322	 —	 (12,950)	 (21,023)	 81,349	 	
31 December 2014, the market price of H&T Group plc’s shares was 160p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2014 was  
145p – 188.5p.
None of the directors hold any interests in the shares of any other company within the H&T Group plc group.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, the following directors will by rotation be offering themselves for re-election:
•	 J	G	Nichols
•	 S	A	Fenerty ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
27
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
Directors’ inDemnities
Under the Company’s articles of association, any director is entitled to be indemnified by the Company (to the extent permitted by law) against any 
liability incurred by him in defending proceedings which relate to any acts or omissions in his capacity as officer of the Company. In addition, the 
Company maintains insurance for the benefit of the directors in respect of such matters which it considers to be appropriate. These arrangements 
were in force throughout the whole of the current and preceding financial years.
 
aggregate Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
 2014 2013
 £  £
Emoluments 585,344 726,249
Gains on exercise of share options —	—
Amounts gained under long term incentive schemes 72,880	—
Money purchase pension contributions 41,439 54,566
 699,663 780,815
  
Directors’ emoluments anD comPensation
	 Fees/Basic	 Benefits	 Annual	 2014 2013
 salary in kind bonuses total Total
Director £  £ £ £ £
executive     
J	G	Nichols	 240,454	 11,812	 —	 252,266 252,427
A	M	Maby	(r esigned	29	November	2013)	 —	 —	 —	 — 172,206
S	A	Fenerty	 173,939	 9,664	 —	 183,603 152,141
non-executive     
P	D	McNamara	 69,525	 —	 —	 69,525 69,525
M	L	Berryman	 41,200	 —	 —	 41,200 41,200
J	F	Thor nton	 38,750	 —	 —	 38,750 38,750
Aggr egate	emoluments	 563,868	 21,476	 —	 585,344 726,249
Directors’ annual Bonus scheme
Remuneration Committee consider the total remuneration package available to executive directors in light of market practice for companies of 
a similar size and delivering a similar shareholder performance. As part of the total package, executive directors are entitled to receive an annual 
bonus, subject to meeting certain performance conditions. These performance conditions, the maximum bonus payable and the proportion paid  
for on-target performance are set by the Remuneration Committee in advance of each financial year.
The 2014 bonus structure was as follows:
•	 executive	dir ectors	r eceive	a	per centage	of	salary	for	achieving	a	minimum	target	based	on	Gr oup	pr ofit	befor e	tax;	and
•	 for	each	1%	out-performance	to	the	target	additional	per centages	ar e	paid	up	to	a	maximum	of	35%	over	the	target.	No	dir ector	can	r eceive	 
a bonus of more than 145% of salary.
The 2015 directors’ bonus scheme is the same structure as the 2014 scheme.  H&T GROUP PLC
28
Directors’ report continued Directors’ Pension entitlements
2 directors (2013: 3) were members of money purchase schemes during the year. Contributions paid by the Company in respect of such directors 
were as follows:
 2014 2013
 £  £
J	G	Nichols	 24,045 24,045
A M Maby (resigned 29 November 2013) — 16,292
S A Fenerty 17,394 14,229
 41,439 54,566
  
Personnel
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. All employees have contracts 
of	employment	with	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited,	the	trading	subsidiary	in	the	H&T	Gr oup	plc	gr oup.
Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	maintains	a	policy	of	equal	opportunities	and	is	committed	to	ensuring	that	all	individuals	ar e	tr eated	fairly ,	with	r espect	
and are valued. 
All employees are incentivised through different bonus schemes. Store managers and management also qualify for the approved share option 
scheme (ASOS) while directors and senior management also qualify for the unapproved share option scheme (USOS). The executive directors also 
qualify	for	the	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	(L TIP).	Further	details	on	shar e	option	plans	ar e	pr ovided	in	note	28.
emPloyee consultation
Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that their views are taken into account when 
decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all employees are aware of the financial and economic performance of their stores, 
regional areas and of the Group as a whole. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, weekly information bulletins, employee surveys, 
a quarterly newsletter and every year through a store managers’ conference.
emPloyment of the DisaBleD
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled persons in jobs suited to their individual circumstances 
and, as appropriate, to consider them for recruitment opportunities, career development and training. Where possible, arrangements are made for 
the continuing employment of employees who have become disabled whilst in the Group’s employment.
suPPlier P ayment Policy
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware 
of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment. Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2014 were equivalent to 29 (2013: 30) 
days’ purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year. 
charitaBle anD Political contriButions
During the year the Company and Group made donations to registered local and national charities of £5,500 (2013: £4,000). No political 
contributions were made during the year (2013: £nil).
 
going concern
The Group delivered profit after tax of £4.3m for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £4.9m). The Group has also increased its net assets 
to £90.9m (2013: £88.1m). The Group’s net debt balance decreased by £11m during 2014 highlighting the Group’s ability to manage its working 
capital	use	and	generate	str ong	cash	flows.
The Board has approved a detailed budget for 2015, which indicates surplus cash generated from operations after accounting for the Group’s 
forecast levels of capital expenditure. In addition, the Group has access to its current £50m revolving facility, which is not due to expire until  
January	2017.	As	at	31	December	2014,	the	Gr oup	had	£32.1m	of	available	financing	by	which	to	finance	both	curr ent	operations	and	futur e	
growth. This strong balance sheet position provides a high level of confidence that the Group will be able to repay all liabilities as they fall due  
during 2014, as well as funding the planned expansion in the store estate. The Board is also confident of meeting all covenant tests during the year.
In considering the going concern basis of preparation longer term forecasts are also reviewed by the Board, with the ‘base case’ financial forecasts 
revealing no inability to meet financial covenants or repay liabilities. Sensitivity analysis under less favourable scenarios designed to test the point at 
which the Group will either have insufficient headroom or breach financial covenants have also been prepared and reviewed. The Board considers 
the selected scenarios as remote, and is comfortable that mitigating strategies are available to the Group to offset liquidity constraints.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
29
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
We believe that the current economic climate should have no significant negative impact to our business model. The Group offering is principally 
through secured lending against pledges. The Group policies on pawn lending remain rigorous and prudent, such that the Group has very limited 
exposure to loss in the event of customers not redeeming their pledges, due to the value of the pledge collateral held, principally being gold and 
precious stones. The Group has no reason to believe that the value will not be maintained in the near future. Further details are provided in note 26.
Based on the above considerations and after reviewing in detail 2015 and Q1 2016 forecasts, the directors have formed the view that the Group has 
adequate	r esour ces	to	continue	as	a	going	concer n	for	the	for eseeable	futur e	and	has	pr epar ed	the	financial	statements	on	this	basis.	Principal	risks	
and uncertainties to the Group’s business are discussed in more detail in the Strategic Report.
inDePenDent auDitor anD statement of Provision of information to the inDePenDent auDitor
Deloitte	LLP	have	expr essed	their	willingness	to	continue	in	office	as	auditor	and	a	r esolution	to	r eappoint	them	will	be	pr oposed	at	the	forthcoming	
Annual General Meeting.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
(1)  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditor is unaware; and
(2)  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information  
and to establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
J g nichols
Chief Executive Officer
4 March 2015 H&T GROUP PLC
30
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing  
the Annual Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have elected 
to prepare the group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice	(United	Kingdom	Accounting	
Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	
then apply them consistently;
•	 make	judgments	and	accounting	estimates	
that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state	whether	applicable	UK	Accounting	
Standards have been followed; and
•	 pr epar e	the	financial	statements	on	
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that directors:
•	 pr operly	select	and	apply	accounting	
policies;
•	 pr esent	information,	including	accounting	
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
•	 pr ovide	additional	disclosur es	when	
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
•	 make	an	assessment	of	the	Company’ s	
ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’ s	website.	Legislation	in	the	United	
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
resPonsiBility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the	financial	statements,	pr epar ed	in	
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
•	 the	strategic	r eport	includes	a	fair	r eview	 
of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
•	 the	annual	r eport	and	financial	statements,	
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by 
the Board of directors on 4 March 2015 and is 
signed on its behalf by.
By order of the Board   
  
J g nichols s a fenerty 
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director 
   
4 March 2015   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
31
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the financial statements  
of H&T Group plc for the year ended  
31 December 2014 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance 
Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement 
and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	Companies	Act	
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or  
assume responsibility to anyone other than  
the Company and the Company’s members  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed.
resPective resPonsiBilities of 
Directors anD auDitor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply	with	the	Auditing	Practices	Boar d’ s	
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
scoPe of the auDit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
oPinion on financial statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
•	 give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
group’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 
and of the group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
•	 have	been	pr operly	pr epar ed	in	
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union; and
•	 have	been	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	with	the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
oPinion on other matters 
PrescriBeD By the comP anies  
act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements.
matters on which we are requireD 
to rePort By excePtion
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 certain	disclosur es	of	dir ectors’	
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
•	 we	have	not	r eceived	all	the	information	
and explanations we require for our audit.
other matter
We have reported separately on the parent 
company financial statements of H&T Group 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
ian J smith fca (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for	and	on	behalf	of	Deloitte	LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Crawley, United Kingdom
4 March 2015
inDepenDent auDitor’s report on the group financial 
statements to the members of h&t group plc H&T GROUP PLC
32
group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
  2014  2013
continuing operations Note £’000  £’000
Revenue 5,6 87,696 99,275
Cost of sales  (42,019) (49,357)
gross profit 6 45,677 49,918
   
Other direct expenses  (31,627) (32,912)
Administrative expenses  (7,833) (9,432)
operating profit  6,217 7,574
   
Investment revenues 5,10 1 1
Finance costs 11 (708) (842)
Profit before taxation 7 5,510 6,733
   
Tax charge on profit  12 (1,255) (1,882)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income  4,255 4,851
   
  2014 2013
  Pence 	 Pence
earnings per share   
Basic 13 11.78 13.44
Diluted 13 11.78 13.40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
33
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    employee
   share Benefit
  share premium t rust shares retained
  capital account reserve earnings total
 Note £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
at 1 January 2013  1,830 25,397 (25) 59,563 86,765
      
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	 	 —	 —	 —	 4,851	 4,851
t otal income for the financial year 	 	 —	 —	 —	 4,851	 4,851
Issue	of	shar e	capital	 	 13	 12	 —	 —	 25
Shar e	option	cr edit	taken	dir ectly	to	equity	 28	 —	 —	 —	 238	 238
Dividends	paid	 14	 —	 —	 —	 (3,738)	 (3,738)
Employee	benefit	trust	shar es	 27	 —	 —	 (13)	 —	 (13)
at 1 January 2014  1,843 25,409 (38) 60,914 88,128
      
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	 	 — — — 4,255 4,255
t otal income for the financial year  — — — 4,255 4,255
Issue of share capital 27 — — — — —
Share option credit taken directly to equity 28 — — — 246 246
Dividends paid 14 — — — (1,769) (1,769)
Employee benefit trust shares 27 — — 3 — 3
at 31 December 2014  1,843 25,409 (35) 63,646 90,863
group statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 H&T GROUP PLC
34
group balance sheet
At 31 December 2014
  31 December 31 December 
  2014  2013
 Note £’000  £’000
non-current assets   
Goodwill 15 17,707 17,738
Other intangible assets 16 1,056 1,400
Pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 17	 9,954 12,322
Deferred tax assets 23 527 724
  29,244 32,184
current assets   
Inventories 19 29,500 29,748
Trade and other receivables 20 49,423 54,122
Cash and cash equivalents 20 8,250 8,251
  87,173 92,121
t otal assets  116,417 124,305
current liabilities   
Borrowings 22 (1,925) (3,000)
Trade and other payables 21 (6,053) (5,338)
Current tax liabilities 21 (328) (1,076)
  (8,306) (9,414)
   
   
net current assets  78,867 82,707
   
non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 22 (15,758) (25,605)
Pr ovisions	 24	 (1,490) (1,158)
  (17,248) (26,763)
t otal liabilities  (25,554) (36,177)
net assets  90,863 88,128
equity   
Share capital 27 1,843 1,843
Share premium account  25,409 25,409
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve 27 (35) (38)
Retained earnings  63,646 60,914
t otal equity attributable to equity holders  90,863 88,128
   
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 01588117, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on  
4 March 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by:
J g nichols
Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
35
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
group cash flow statement
Y ear ended 31 December 2014
  2014  2013
 Note £’000  £’000
net cash generated from operating activities 30 14,373 15,405
investing activities   
Interest received  1 1
Pr oceeds	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 52	—
Pur chases	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 (1,117) (2,434)
Acquisition of trade and assets of businesses  (469) (2,366)
net cash used in investing activities  (1,533) (4,799)
financing activities   
Dividends paid 14 (1,769) (3,738)
Net decrease in borrowings  (10,000) (5,000)
Pr oceeds	on	issue	of	shar es	 27	 — 25
Decrease in Bank overdraft  (1,075)	—
Loan	to	the	Employee	Benefit	T rust	for	acquisition	of	own	shar es	 3 (13)
net cash absorbed by financing activities  (12,841) (8,726)
net increase in cash and cash equivalents  (1) 1,880
   
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  8,251 6,371
cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  8,250 8,251 H&T GROUP PLC
36
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014
1. general information
H&T Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts. The address of the registered office is given on  
page 22. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review, the Finance Director’s Review and the Directors’ Report.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. 
2. changes in accounting Policies 
adoption of new and Revised standaRds   
In the current year, the following new and revised standard and interpretations have been adopted:
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27   Investment Entities
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
Amendment to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
IFRIC	21	 Levies
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
None of the new or revised standards that have been adopted affected the amounts reported in the financial statements.
standaRds not affeCting the RepoR ted Results and finanCial position
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the Group had not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued  
but are not yet effective:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Amendments	to	IFRS	11	 Accounting	for	Acquisitions	of	Inter ests	in	Joint	Operations
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
Amendments	to	IAS	16	and	IAS	41	 Agricultur e:	Bear er	Plants
Amendments	to	IAS	19	 Defined	Benefit	Plans:	Employee	Contributions
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between and Investor and its Associate    
	 or	Joint	V entur e
Annual	Impr ovements	to	IFRSs:	2010-2012	 Amendments	to:	IFRS	2	Shar e-based	Payment,	IFRS	3	Business	Combinations,	 
	 IFRS	8	Operating	Statements,	IFRS	13	Fair	V alue	Measur ement,	IAS	16	Pr operty ,	 
	 Plant	and	Equipment,	IAS	24	Related	Party	Disclosur es	and	IAS	38	Intangible	Assets.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 Amendments to: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting   
	 Standar ds,	IFRS	3	Business	Combinations,	IFRS	13	Fair	V alue	Measur ement	and	 
	 IAS	40	Investment	Pr operty
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Amendments to: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued   
 Operations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 19 Employee Benefits and  
 IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
 
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in 
future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on 
revenue recognition and related disclosures. Beyond the information above it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the impact of 
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
3. significant accounting Policies
Basis of aCCounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the European Union 
and therefore the Group financial statements comply with The AIM Rules.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
made up to 31 December each year. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used  
by the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
going ConCeRn The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors Report. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
37
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
Business ComBinations 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at 
the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a 
subsidiary, or trade and assets previously operated through either sole partnership in limited companies with no audited accounts at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income and is not subsequently reversed.
CGU’s to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be 
impair ed.	Goodwill	arising	on	acquisitions	befor e	the	date	of	transition	to	IFRS	has	been	r etained	at	the	pr evious	UK	GAAP	amounts	subject	to	being	
tested for impairment annually as described above.
 
intangiBle assets
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are carried at cost less amortisation less impairment losses. Intangible assets represent intangibles which 
have been separately identified under IFRS 3 arising in business combinations, or meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38, “Intangible Assets”, being 
principally computer software assets.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is calculated using the expected life of the intangible assets acquired.
Amortisation of other intangible assets (computer software) is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the asset less its 
assessed realisable value over its estimated useful life (6 to 8 years).
pRopeR ty, plant and equipment
Pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	ar e	stated	at	cost	less	accumulated	depr eciation	and	any	impairment	in	value.
depReCiation Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset 
evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
 shoR t leasehold pRemises 
		 Leasehold	impr ovements	 Shorter	of	7	years	or	life	of	lease
 
 ComputeR equipment 
  Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
 
 fixtuRes and fittings 10 years
 
 motoR vehiCles 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
inventoRies Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For stock acquired for retail sale the cost represents the purchase price plus 
overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present location and condition and is measured on a first in first out basis. For stock arising 
from unredeemed pledges the cost represents the amount originally loaned, plus overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present 
location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred  
in marketing, selling and distribution.
Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stocks.
finanCial assets
In accordance with IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ the Group has classified its financial assets as ‘loans and 
receivables’ and financial assets at ‘fair value through profit and loss’.  H&T GROUP PLC
38
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
loans and ReCeivaBles The principal financial assets included in this measurement category are:
Trade receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers in the normal course of business. Trade receivables include certain amounts, namely 
pledge	r eceivables	and	Personal	Loan	debtors	which	ar e	inter est	bearing.	The	accrued	inter est	arising	on	these	inter est	bearing	assets	is	included	
in prepayments and accrued income using the effective interest method. All other amounts which are not interest bearing are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts, which are charged to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at hand and deposits held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
finanCial assets at fvtpl 
Only	the	Gr oup’ s	derivative	financial	instruments	ar e	r ecor ded	as	financial	assets	at	FVTPL.	Financial	assets	at	FVTPL	ar e	stated	at	fair	value,	with	
any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
 
impaiRment of finanCial assets
Financial	assets,	other	than	those	at	FVTPL,	ar e	assessed	for	indicators	of	impairment	at	each	balance	sheet	date.	Financial	assets	ar e	impair ed	
where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated 
futur e	cash	flows	of	the	investment	have	been	r educed.	
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
•	 significant	financial	difficulty	of	the	counterparty;	or
•	 default	on	payments;	or
•	 it	becoming	pr obable	that	the	counterparty	will	enter	bankruptcy	or	financial	r e-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, 
where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written  
off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the 
allowance account are immediately recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
to the extent that the carrying amount of the financial asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would 
have been had the impairment not been recognised. 
 
finanCial liaBilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
Equity instrumEnts An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilitiEs 
Financial	liabilities	ar e	classified	as	either	financial	liabilities	‘at	FVTPL ’	or	‘other	financial	liabilities’.
Financial	liabilities	at	FVTPL 
Only	the	Gr oup’ s	derivative	financial	instruments	ar e	r ecor ded	as	financial	liabilities	at	FVTPL.
Financial	liabilities	at	FVTPL	ar e	stated	at	fair	value,	with	any	r esultant	gain	or	loss	r ecognised	in	pr ofit	or	loss.	The	net	gain	or	loss	r ecognised	in	pr ofit	
or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. All other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
39
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
t axation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, 
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a  
net basis.
leases Leases	taken	by	the	Gr oup	ar e	assessed	individually	as	to	whether	they	ar e	finance	leases	or	operating	leases.	Leases	ar e	classified	as	finance	
leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified  
as operating leases.
Leases	wher e	the	lessor	r etains	substantially	all	the	risks	and	benefits	of	ownership	of	the	asset	ar e	classified	as	operating	leases.	Operating	lease	
rental payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The benefit of lease incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
The Group currently has no finance leases.
pRovisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is 
pr obable	that	an	outflow	of	economic	benefits	will	be	r equir ed	to	settle	the	obligation.	Pr ovisions	ar e	measur ed	at	the	dir ectors’	best	estimate	of	the	
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification 
costs and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes 
aware of any significant amounts that will be required.
shaRe Capital and shaRe pRemium aCCount There is one class of shares. When new shares are issued, they are recorded in share capital at their par value. The excess of the issue price over 
the par value is recorded in the share premium account.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are recorded in equity as a deduction, net of tax, to the share premium 
account.
employee Benefit tRust shaRes Under	the	terms	of	the	Gr oup	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	(‘L TIP’)	for	the	dir ectors,	the	par ent	Company	issued	certain	shar es	to	an	Employee	Benefit	
T rust,	paid	for	thr ough	the	issuance	of	a	loan	to	the	T rust	fr om	the	Gr oup.	The	awar d	of	shar es	under	the	L TIP	is	conditional	upon	certain	vesting	
criteria, as outlined in note 28. The fair value of the awards made is measured under the policy disclosed below for Share Options.
The Group presents the conditional shares as an adjustment to own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares 
reserve, until the point that the shares are awarded, and cease to be conditional awards of shares.
  H&T GROUP PLC
40
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
Revenue ReCognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services and 
inter est	income	pr ovided	in	the	normal	course	of	business,	net	of	discounts,	V A T	and	other	sales-r elated	taxes.
Revenue	is	r ecognised	to	the	extent	that	it	is	pr obable	that	the	economic	benefits	will	flow	to	the	Gr oup	and	the	r evenue	can	be	r eliably	measur ed.	
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
•	 Pawnbr oking,	or	Pawn	Service	Charge	(PSC),	comprises	inter est	on	pledge	book	loans,	plus	auction	pr ofit	and	loss,	less	any	auction	
commissions payable and less surplus payable to the customer. Interest receivable on loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to  
the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through  
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount;
•	 Retail	comprises	r evenue	fr om	r etail	jewellery	sales,	with	stock	sour ced	fr om	unr edeemed	pawn	loans,	newly	pur chased	stock	and	stock	
r efurbished	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	Gold	Pur chasing	operation.	All	r evenue	is	r ecognised	at	the	point	of	sale;
•	 Pawnbr oking	Scrap	and	Gold	Pur chasing	comprises	pr oceeds	fr om	gold	scrap	sales	and	is	r ecognised	on	full	r eceipt	of	sale	pr oceeds;
•	 Personal	Loans	comprises	income	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	unsecur ed	lending	pr oducts.	Inter est	r eceivable	on	unsecur ed	loans	is	r ecognised	as	inter est	
accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount; and
•	 Other	financial	services	comprise	r evenues	fr om	thir d	party	Cheque	Cashing,	For eign	Exchange	income,	Buyback,	pr epaid	car d	and	other	
income. The commission receivable on Cheque Cashing is recognised at the time of the transaction. Any other revenues are recognised on an 
accruals basis.
The Group recognises interest income arising on secured and unsecured lending within trading revenue rather than investment revenue on the basis 
that this represents most accurately the business activities of the Group.
The	Gr oup	r ecognises	r evenue	and	bad	debt	expenses	(both	impairments	and	movements	on	allowance	accounts)	on	Pawnbr oking,	Cheque	
Cashing and other financial services on a portfolio approach. The Group considers that the bad debts arising on the loans and receivables balances 
are a direct function of the revenue earned due to the nature of the activities, and accordingly records the net amount of interest or commissions  
due and bad debt expenses within revenue. 
gRoss pRofit Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the period.
otheR diReCt expenses
Other direct expenses comprise all expenses associated with the operation of the various shops and collection centre of the Group, including 
premises expenses, such as rent, rates, utilities and insurance, all staff costs and staff related costs for the relevant employees.
opeRating pRofit Operating profit is stated before investment income, finance costs, other gains and movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
 
eBitda EBITDA is defined as Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation. It is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortisation 
to the operating profit as follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
operating profit 6,217 7,574
  
Depreciation and amortisation 3,470  3,604
Impairment 129 517
eBitDa 9,816 11,695
  
The Board considers EBITDA as a key measure of the Group’s financial performance.
RetiRement Benefit Costs The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme which is contracted into the State Scheme. The amount charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.  
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
41
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
employee shaRe inCentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees (including directors). These payments are measured at fair value at the date 
of grant by use of a Black-Scholes model or a Stochastic model depending on the vesting conditions attached to each scheme. This fair value cost of 
equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and 
adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. A corresponding credit is recorded in equity.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
dividends
Dividends are provided for in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
4. critical accounting JuDgements anD key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which 
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future 
periods.
critical judgEmEnts in applying thE group’s accounting policiEs The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the directors have made in 
the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements.
Revenue ReCognition
Interest receivable on pawnbroking loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the percentage of the pawn loans that are estimated to be 
redeemed and the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. The estimated future cash receipts are based on the historical cash receipts 
experience 	 (the 	 “Pledge 	 Redemption”) 	 of 	 the 	 business 	 which 	 vary 	 fr om 	 month 	 to 	 month. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 monitors 	 the 	 Pledge 	 Redemption 	 on 	 a 	 monthly 	 basis.
The critical judgement is that the Group does not recognise interest income on the pawn loans that are not expected to be redeemed. The Group 
recognises income on these loans when the related collateral that supports the loan is disposed of, through either the scrap or retail operations of the 
Group. The Group is of the opinion that the revenue earned on the unredeemed pledges is only realised from the Group perspective at the point at which 
the stock, or scrap item that the Group obtains from the pledge collateral is disposed of. In arriving at this treatment, the Group also considers that the 
transfer value from pawn loans to inventory of the unredeemed pledge collateral cannot exceed the cost to the Group of the inventory item which is 
represented by the underlying loan amount provided on the unredeemed pledge item.
inventoRies 
The majority of the inventory balance is obtained as a result of default by pawn loan customers. The inventory is stated at cost to the Group, being the 
amount initially lent on the pawn loan, plus overheads directly related to bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. 
The critical judgement is that the Group does not allocate any interest that would have been earned on the pawn loans to the cost of inventory. 
Accordingly, the profit that arises on the subsequent disposal of the inventory, through either retail or scrap, includes an element which relates to the 
appropriation by the Group of collaterals supporting pawn loans that have a higher market value, than the pawn loan amount. 
dilapidations pRovision
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification costs 
and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes aware of 
any significant amounts that will be required. The Group does not provide for amounts where the potential exposure cannot be reliably measured and 
accordingly does not anticipate potential repairs and maintenance on the portfolio of stores. Additionally, the Group maintains the stores to a high 
standard and completes any necessary repairs and maintenance on a timely basis, addressing any events that require expenditure throughout the lease 
period as and when required. Such costs are expensed as incurred.
 
KEy sourcEs oF Estimation uncErtainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
p awnBRoking loans inteRest aCCRual estimation
The Group recognises interest on pawnbroking loans as disclosed in the Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies section above. 
The pawn loans interest accrual (‘pledge accrual’) is material to the financial statements and is dependant on the estimate that the Group makes of the 
expected level of redeemed pawn loans. The Group estimates the expected redemptions based on the historical redemption rates achieved. There is 
a risk that the actual redemption rate may vary significantly from the historical rate used to estimate the pledge accrual at the balance sheet date. The 
Directors assess the pledge accrual estimate made at the prior balance sheet date annually to determine if the actual redemption differs significantly to  
the previous estimate. No significant differences were noted for 2013 or 2014. The sensitivity of the pledge accrual to reasonable changes in the 
redemption rate is shown in note 26.  H&T GROUP PLC
42
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 4. critical accounting JuDgements anD key sources of estimation uncertainty (continueD)
impaiRment of goodwill and otheR intangiBles Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been 
allocated.	The	value	in	use	calculation	r equir es	the	Gr oup	to	estimate	the	futur e	cash	flows	expected	to	arise	fr om	the	cash-generating	unit	and	a	
suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. The review is conducted annually, in the final quarter of the year. The impairment review is 
conducted at the level of each cash generating unit, which for acquisitions represents the specific store or stores acquired.
There was an impairment loss of £129,000, of which £31,000 related to goodwill, recorded in the current year (2013: £517,000). The impairment 
loss relates to an acquisition made in 2012. The principal assumptions applied by management in arriving at the value in use of each cash generating 
unit are as follows:
1.	 The	Gr oup	pr epar es	cash	flow	for ecasts	over	a	five	year	period	for	each	cash	generating	unit,	as	disclosed	in	note	15.	The	year	one	cash	flows	
are derived from the most recent financial budget, the revenue was reduced by 5% in year 1. Assumptions for years 2 – 5 include no annual 
revenue growth. A constant gold price of £760 per troy ounce is assumed. A perpetuity is then calculated for periods thereafter.
2.	 The	Gr oup	has	discounted	the	cash	flows	at	a	pr e-tax,	risk	adjusted	rate	of	12.2%.
3. The recoverable amount of four cash generating units was estimated to be less that its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash 
generating	units	was	r educed	to	its	r ecoverable	amount.	The	impairment	loss	of	£129,000	was	r ecognised	immediately	in	Pr ofit	and	Loss.	 
The impairment of £129,000 relates to Goodwill of £31,000, intangible assets of £9,000 and property, plant and equipment of £89,000.
While the impairment review has been conducted based on the best available estimates at the impairment review date, the Group notes that actual 
events may vary from management expectation.
f aiR value of deRivatives The	dir ectors	use	their	judgement	in	selecting	an	appr opriate	valuation	technique	for	financial	instruments	not	quoted	in	an	active	market.	V aluation	
techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied. For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market 
rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument. This requires estimation of the future interest rates, and also the appropriate discount rate. 
tRade ReCeivaBles pRovisioning Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less expected impairment losses. 
The impairment losses on the pledge book only relate to pledges seized by the police, shrinkage and our estimate of losses on pledges where the 
loan value exceeds the current market value. The pledge book items seized by the police are impaired on an item by item basis since the Group 
tracks the status of each pledge individually. The shrinkage provision is based on an estimate of the pledge book missing at the reporting date using 
historical shrinkage experience. The provision for pledges where loan value exceeds the current market value is calculated on an item by item basis 
with	an	estimate	used	for	the	pr oportion	of	those	items	which	will	ultimately	be	disposed	of	thr ough	Pawnbr oking	Scrap.
No other impairment losses are provided on the pledge book since the value of the collaterals is greater than the pledge book nominal value.
The	impairment	of	a	Personal	Loan	is	based	on	historical	loss	experience	depending	on	the	level	of	arr ears	on	an	individual	account.	For	arr ears	 
of 0.5 months up to one month a third of the remaining balance is impaired, for arrears of up to two months two-third of the remaining balance  
is impaired and for arrears of over two months, or where the loan is outstanding beyond the contractual due date, the whole remaining balance  
is impaired.
 
With respect to all provisions that are based on estimates, there is a risk that actual losses incurred will vary significantly from management 
expectation at the balance sheet date, if historical loss rates are not a good indicator of the actual credit risk profile of the year end receivables.
For further details on the provisions and impairment losses, refer to note 26, which show the amounts recorded in the period and the sensitivity  
at the balance sheet date to changes in the key assumptions with respect to impairment losses.
inventoRies pRovisioning Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stock or stock shrinkage. The provision for obsolete, slow moving and 
damaged stock represents the difference between the cost of the stock and its market value. The stock shrinkage provision is based on an estimate 
of the inventory missing at the reporting date using historical shrinkage experience. For further details on the provisions for inventory, refer to note 7. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
43
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. revenue 
an analysis of the gRoup’s Revenue is as follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
sales of goods  
Gold	Pur chasing,	Retail,	Pawnbr oking	Scrap		 54,839 65,893
  
interest/commission earned  
Pawnbr oking,	Cheque	Cashing	and	other	financial	services	 32,857 33,382
group revenue 87,696 99,275
  
Investment revenues 1 1
t otal group revenue 87,697 99,276
Further analysis of revenue by segment is shown in note 6.
inCluded in the aBove Revenues aRe the following items of inCome and gains:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
income  
Interest earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 32,838 28,812
Fees earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 3,415 3,767
6. Business anD geograPhical segments
Business segments 
For	r eporting	purposes,	the	Gr oup	is	curr ently	organised	into	six	segments	–	Pawnbr oking,	Gold	Pur chasing,	Retail,	Scrap,	Personal	Loans	and	
Other services. 
The Board have updated the segmental reporting to present all the unsecured lending products in one segment due to a change in the way the chief 
operating	decision	maker	views	the	business.	The	Personal	Loans	segment	now	includes	Pay	Day	Advance,	KwikLoan	and	the	new	Personal	Loan.	
Other	Services	includes	Thir d	Party	Cheque	Cashing,	For eign	Exchange,	Buyback,	W ester n	Union	and	Other	income.	The	earlier	periods	r eported	
below been restated.
The principal activities by segment are as follows:
p awnBRoking: 
Pawnbr oking	is	a	loan	secur ed	against	a	collateral	(the	pledge).	In	the	case	of	the	Gr oup	over	99%	of	the	collateral	against	which	amounts	ar e	lent	
comprises precious metals (predominantly gold), diamonds and watches. The pawnbroking contract is a six month credit agreement bearing a 
monthly interest rate of between 2% and 9.99%. The contract is governed by the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 2008 (previously the Consumer 
Credit Act 2002). If the customer does not redeem the goods by repaying the secured loan before the end of the contract, the Group is required to 
dispose of the goods either through public auctions if the value of the pledge is over £75 (disposal proceeds being reported in this segment) or, if the 
value	of	the	pledge	is	£75	or	under ,	thr ough	public	auctions	or	the	Retail	or	Pawnbr oking	Scrap	activities	of	the	Gr oup.
gold puRChasing: 
Jewellery	is	bought	dir ect	fr om	customers	thr ough	all	of	the	Gr oup’ s	stor es.	The	transaction	is	simple	with	the	stor e	or	unit	agr eeing	a	price	with	the	
customer	and	pur chasing	the	goods	for	cash	on	the	spot.	Gold	Pur chasing	r evenues	comprise	pr oceeds	fr om	scrap	sales	on	goods	sour ced	fr om	
the Group’s purchasing operations.
Retail: 
The Group’s retail proposition is primarily gold and jewellery and the majority of the retail sales are forfeited items from the pawnbroking pledge book 
or	r efurbished	items	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	Gold	Pur chasing	operations.	The	r etail	of fering	is	complemented	with	a	small	amount	of	new	or	second	hand	
jewellery purchased from third parties by the Group.
p awnBRoking sCRap: 
Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 comprises 	 all 	 other 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 gold 	 scrap 	 sales 	 other 	 than 	 those 	 r eported 	 within 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing. 	 The 	 items 	 ar e 	 either 	 damaged	
beyond repair, are slow moving or surplus to the Group’s requirements, and are smelted and sold at the current gold spot price less a small commission.
peRsonal loans: 
Personal	Loans	comprises	Pay	Day	Advance,	KwikLoan	and	the	new	Personal	Loan.	Inter est	r eceivable	on	unsecur ed	loans	is	r ecognised	in	
tur nover	on	an	accruals	basis	less	pr ovision	for	loans	not	expected	to	be	r epaid.	Personal	Loans	ar e	subject	to	bad	debt	risk	which	is	r eflected	 
in the interest rate applied. H&T GROUP PLC
44
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
Business segments (Continued)
otheR seR viCes: 
This segment comprises:
•	 Thir d	Party	Cheque	Encashment	which	is	the	pr ovision	of	cash	in	exchange	for	a	cheque	payable	to	our	customer	for	a	commission	fee	based	 
on the face value of the cheque.
•	 Buyback	which	is	a	service	wher e	items	ar e	pur chased	fr om	customers,	typically	high	end	electr onics,	and	may	be	bought	back	up	to	31	days	
later for a fee.
•	 The	For eign	Exchange	curr ency	service	wher e	the	Gr oup	ear ns	a	commission	when	selling	or	buying	for eign	curr encies.
•	 W ester n	Union	commission	ear ned	on	the	Gr oup’ s	money	transfer	service.
•	 The	Pr epaid	debit	car d	pr oduct	wher e	the	Gr oup	ear ns	a	commission	when	selling	the	car d	or	when	the	customer	is	topping	up	their	car d.
Cheque	Cashing	is	subject	to	bad	debt	risk	which	is	r eflected	in	the	commissions	and	fees	applied.
Further details on each activity are included in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 13 to 16. 
Segment information about these businesses is presented below:
       
  gold  Pawnbroking Personal other consolidated
 Pawnbroking Purchasing retail scrap loans services year ended
 2014 2014  2014 2014 2014 2014 2014
2014 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
revenue
External sales 28,393 13,325 30,894 10,620 1,780 2,684 87,696
Total revenue 28,393 13,325 30,894 10,620 1,780 2,684 87,696
segment result – gross profit 28,393 2,387 10,677 (244) 1,780 2,684 45,677
Other direct expenses       (31,627)
Administrative expenses       (7,833)
operating profit       6,217
Investment revenues       1
Finance costs       (708)
Profit before taxation       5,510
Tax charge on profit        (1,255)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income     4,255
	 	 Gold	 	 Pawnbr oking	 Personal	 Other	 Consolidated
	 Pawnbr oking	 Pur chasing	 Retail	 Scrap	 Loans	 services	 year	ended
 2013 2013  2013 2013 2013 2013 2013
2013 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
revenue
External sales 28,672 24,487 24,928 16,478 2,929 1,781 99,275
Total revenue 28,672 24,487 24,928 16,478 2,929 1,781 99,275
segment result – gross profit 28,672 4,784 9,922 1,830 2,929 1,781 49,918
Other direct expenses       (32,912)
Administrative expenses       (9,432)
operating profit       7,574
Investment revenues       1
Finance costs       (842)
Profit before taxation       6,733
Tax charge on profit        (1,882)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income     4,851 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
45
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
Business segments (Continued)
As disclosed in note 3, Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the period. Other 
operating expenses of the stores are included in other direct expenses. The Group is unable to meaningfully allocate the other direct expenses of operating  
the stores between segments as the activities are conducted from the same stores, utilising the same assets and staff. The Group is also unable to meaningfully 
allocate Group administrative expenses, or financing costs or income between the segments. Accordingly, the Group is unable to meaningfully disclose an 
allocation of items included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income below Gross profit, which represents the reported segment results. 
The Group does not apply any inter-segment charges when items are transferred between the pawnbroking activity and the retail or scrap activities.
    Pawn-   unallocated consolidated
 Pawn- gold  broking Personal other assets/ year
 broking Purchasing retail scrap loans services (liabilities) ended
 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014
2014 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
other information        
Capital additions (*)       1,008 1,008
Depreciation and 
 amortisation (*)       3,569 3,569
        
Balance sheet        
assets        
Segment	assets	 43,888	 473	 28,749	 278	 3,129	 —	 	 76,517
Unallocated
 corporate assets       35,323 35,323
Consolidated 
 total assets        116,417
liabilities        
Segment	liabilities	 —	 —	 (640)	 —	 —	 (212)	 	 (852)
Unallocated corporate
 liabilities       (24,702) (24,702)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (25,554)
	 	 	 	 Pawn-	 	 	 Unallocated	 Consolidated
	 Pawn-	 Gold	 	 br oking	 Personal	 Other	 assets/	 year
	 br oking	 Pur chasing	 Retail	 Scrap	 Loans	 services	 (liabilities)	 ended
 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013
2013 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
other information        
Capital additions (*)       3,229 3,229
Depreciation and 
 amortisation (*)       4,121 4,121
        
Balance sheet        
assets        
Segment	assets	 49,824	 1,900	 26,582	 1,266	 2,019	 —	 	 81,591
Unallocated 
 corporate assets       35,364 35,364
Consolidated 
 total assets        124,305
liabilities        
Segment	liabilities	 —	 —	 (478)	 —	 —	 (86)	 	 (564)
Unallocated corporate 
 liabilities       (35,613) (35,613)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (36,177)
(*)  The Group cannot meaningfully allocate this information by segment due to the fact that all the  segments operate from the same stores and the 
assets in use are common to all segments. H&T GROUP PLC
46
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
geogRaphiCal segments
The Group’s operations are located entirely in the United Kingdom and all sales are within the United Kingdom. Accordingly, no further geographical 
segments analysis is presented.
majoR CustomeRs 
Included	in	r evenues	arising	fr om	Gold	Pur chasing	and	Pawnbr oking	Scrap	segments	ar e	r evenues	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	largest	customer	of	
£21,740,000 (2013 – £29,531,000) and from its second largest customer of £1,314,000 (2013 – £5,720,000). These customers are bullion houses 
involved in the processing of the Group’s scrap gold.
7. Profit Before taxation
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Profit before taxation has been arrived at after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment reported within:  
- Other direct expenses 3,012 3,101
- Administrative expenses 75 84
Amortisation of intangible assets (reported within Other direct expenses) 383 419
Impairment 129 517
Loss	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 181 187
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 41,299 48,360
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 720 997
Staff costs (see note 9) 19,891 20,442
Impairment	loss	(r eleased)/r ecognised	on	Pawnbr oking	financial	assets	(*)	 (61) 514
Pr ovision	(r eleased)/r ecognised	on	Pawnbr oking	financial	assets	(*)	 (305) 545
Impairment	loss	r ecognised	on	Personal	Loans	financial	assets	(*)	 2,251 1,083
Pr ovision	r ecognised/(r eleased)	on	Personal	Loans	financial	assets	(*)	 376 (395)
Impairment loss recognised on other services financial assets (*) 206 232
Pr ovision	r eleased	on	other	services	financial	assets	(*)	 (7) (14)
(*) As discussed in note 3, due to the portfolio approach adopted for recognising revenue, these amounts are recorded against revenue from the 
related segment to present net revenues as shown in notes 5 and 6.
Although the Group has written off, or provided for some of the financial assets in the current and previous periods, the Group continues to seek 
recovery of these assets. For further analysis on the movements in allowances, and amounts written off, see note 26.
 
8. auDitor’s remuneration
The	analysis	of	auditor’ s	r emuneration,	exclusive	of	V A T ,	is	as	follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s annual accounts 42 45
  
fees payable to the company’s auditor for other services to the group  
- The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 45 42
t otal audit fees 87 87
- Tax services 13 10
- Other services —	—
t otal non-audit fees 13 10
  
The	Company	and	Gr oup	audit	fees	ar e	bor ne	by	a	subsidiary	undertaking,	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited.	
Fees	payable	to	Deloitte	LLP	and	their	associates	for	non-audit	services	to	the	Company	ar e	not	r equir ed	to	be	disclosed	because	the	consolidated	
financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
There were no fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes.
  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
47
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. information regarDing Directors anD emPloyees
non-exeCutive diReCtoRs’ emoluments 
3 (2013 - 3) non-executive directors receive payments for services rendered to the H&T Group plc group. Their emoluments are included in the 
analysis below. 
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments 585 726
Amounts gained under long term incentive scheme 73	—
Company pension contributions to money purchase schemes 41 55
 699 781
All	executive	dir ectors	during	the	year	(2013	–	all)	participated	in	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited’ s	money	pur chase	pension	scheme.	In	addition,	
£149,000 (2013 – £209,000) was charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the fair value of the share options 
and conditional shares granted to the directors under the different schemes. None (2013: One) of the directors exercised options over shares in the 
Company in the year, two (2013: None) directors were granted shares under the long term incentive scheme.
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
highest paid director  
Aggregate emoluments 252 252
Amounts gained under long term incentive scheme 50	—
Company pension contributions to money purchase scheme 24 24
In addition, £75,000 (2013 – £104,000) was charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the fair value of the 
share options and conditional shares granted under the different schemes.
 2014  2013
 no.  No.
monthly average number of persons employed (including directors)   
Branches 907 914
Administration 94 107
 1,001 1,021
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
staff costs during the year (including directors)  
Wages and salaries 17,831 18,317
Share option compensation expense (note 28) 249 238
Social security costs 1,479 1,634
Other pension costs  324 253
 19,883 20,442
 
All	dir ectors	and	employees	ar e	r emunerated	thr ough	a	subsidiary	gr oup	company ,	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	in	both	the	curr ent	and	pr eceding	
financial year. 20% of key management personnel are female. H&T GROUP PLC
48
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 10. investment revenues
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
interest revenue:  
Bank deposits 1 1
 
Investment revenues earned on financial assets (analysed by category of asset) is as follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Loans	and	r eceivables	(including	cash	and	bank	balances)	 1 1
 
Inter est	r evenue	r ecognised	on	Pawnbr oking	and	other	financial	services	is	r eported	within	tur nover	for	the	r easons	discussed	in	note	3.
11. finance costs
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Interest on bank loans 554 700
Other interest 1 2
Amortisation of debt issue costs 153 140
Total interest expense 708 842
12. t ax charge on Profit
a) t ax on pRofit on oRdinaR y aCtivities 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax charge at 21.5% (2013 – 23.25%) based on the profit for the year 1,070 2,055
Adjustments in respect of prior years (12) (172)
Total current tax 1,058 1,883
Deferred tax  
Timing differences, origination and reversal 88 (143)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 83 69
Effects of change in tax rate 26 73
Total deferred tax (note 23) 197 (1)
t ax charge on profit  1,255 1,882
   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
49
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. t ax charge on Profit (continueD)
(B) f aCtoRs affeCting the tax ChaRge foR the yeaR
The tax assessed for the year is higher than that resulting from applying a blended standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5%  
(2013 – 23.25%). The differences are explained below:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit	befor e	taxation	 5,510 6,733
Tax charge on profit at standard rate 1,185 1,565
  
Effects of:  
 Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income (63) 125
 Non-qualifying depreciation 100 89
 Effect of change in tax rate 26 69
 Movement in short term timing differences (64) 133
 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods  71 (99)
t otal actual amount of tax charge 1,255 1,882
  
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and in accordance with IAS 12, the excess of current and deferred tax over and above 
the relative related cumulative remuneration expense under IFRS 2 has been recognised directly in equity. This amounted to a charge to equity in the 
current period of £nil (2013: £nil).
13. earnings Per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. With respect to the Group these represent share options and conditional shares granted to employees where the exercise price  
is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Reconciliations of the earnings per ordinary share and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: 
 year ended 31 December 2014  Year ended 31 December 2013
  weighted   Weighted
  average Per-share 	 	 average	 Per -shar e
 earnings number of amount Earnings number of amount
 £’000 shares  pence £’000 shares  pence
earnings per share basic 4,255 36,124,298 11.78 4,851 36,085,485 13.44
effect of dilutive securities      
Options and conditional shares — — — 	 —	 125,272	 (0.04)
earnings per share diluted 4,255 36,124,298 11.78 4,851 36,210,757 13.40
14. DiviDenDs
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.7 pence (2012 – 8.05p) per share 995 2,968
  
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 2.1 pence (2013 – 2.1p) per share 774 770
 1,769 3,738
amounts proposed and not recognised:  
Pr oposed	final	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	2.7p	(2013	–2.7p)	per	shar e	 995 995
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly, has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. H&T GROUP PLC
50
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 15. gooDwill
  goodwill
 goodwill arising
 arising on on trade
 purchase of and asset t otal
 subsidiaries purchases goodwill
 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost and carrying amount   
At	1	January	2014		 14,133	 3,605	 17,738
   
Recognised	on	acquisition	of	trade	and	assets		 —	 —	 —
Impairment		 —	 (31)	 (31)
At 31 December 2014 14,133 3,574 17,707
   
At 31 December 2014, before impairment testing, goodwill of £710,000 was allocated to the stores acquired in 2012. This CGU has been impacted 
by the fall in gold price and increased competition in the year and as a result the Group has recognised an impairment loss of £31,000 against 
goodwill, £9,000 against other intangible assets and £89,000 against property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated as follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	 14,133 14,133
Stores acquired in 2005 213 213
Stores acquired in 2006 553 553
Stores acquired in 2007 1,516 1,516
Stores acquired in 2008 391 391
Stores acquired in 2010 19 19
Stores acquired in 2011 48 48
Stores acquired in 2012 679 710
Stores acquired in 2013 155 155
Stores acquired in 2014 — 
 17,707 17,738
  
The Group considers that the CGUs have indefinite useful lives as the Group is a significant operator in a well-established business together with the 
proven and long term demand for the Group’s services.
The	Harvey	&	Thompson	Ltd	CGU	was	cr eated	when	H&T	Gr oup	plc	acquir ed	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	in	September	2004.	Management	is	
unable to allocate this goodwill by store and accordingly, tests this for impairment at the subsidiary entity level. All assets acquired after September 
2004 are reviewed for impairment at the related store level. The stores are grouped for financial reporting purposes by year of acquisition to 
facilitate presentation and comparability on a year by year basis. Additionally, store performance is monitored by management based on the year of 
acquisition	as	the	historic	performance	of	an	individual	stor e	is	linked	to	its	acquisition	date.	This	appr oach	is	r eflected	in	the	way	management	has	
presented the above CGUs. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The impairment review 
was conducted as described in note 4. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
51
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. other intangiBle assets
  customer
 software relationships total
 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost   
At	1	January	2013	 1,677	 1,773	 3,450
Additions	 —	 673	 673
Disposals	 (2)	 —	 (2)
At	1	January	2014	 1,675	 2,446	 4,121
Additions	 —	 18	 18
Disposals	 —	 —	 —
At 31 December 2014 1,675 2,464 4,139
amortisation   
At	1	January	2013	 1,342	 927	 2,269
Charge for the year 68 351 419
Impairment	 —	 33	 33
At	1	January	2014	 1,410	 1,311	 2,721
Charge for the year 67 316 383
Impairment	 —	 9	 9
Impairment	r eversal	 —	 (30)	 (30)
At 31 December 2014 1,477 1,606 3,083
carrying amount    
At 31 December 2014 198 858 1,056
At 31 December 2013 265 1,135 1,400
   
The customer relationships intangible assets arise from the acquisition of trade and assets of sole partnerships or limited companies with no audited 
accounts	and	r eflect	the	r epeat	business	associated	with	the	pawnbr oking	and	pay	day	advance	industry	fr om	existing	customers	at	the	acquisition	
date of the relevant assets. 
The amortisation period for customer relationship intangible assets is between 6 and 8 years and the amortisation period for software intangible 
assets	is	7	years.	These	amortisation	periods	r eflect	the	dir ectors’	best	estimate	of	the	estimated	useful	economic	lives	of	these	intangible	assets. H&T GROUP PLC
52
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 17. ProPerty, Plant anD equiPment
 short long   fixtures
 leasehold leasehold motor computer and 
 premises premises vehicles equipment fittings total
 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost or valuation      
At	1	January	2013	 22,022	 246	 —	 3,970	 4,314	 30,552
Additions 1,759 73 9 112 222 2,175
Disposals	 (492)	 (108)	 —	 (185)	 (70)	 (855)
At	1	January	2014	 23,289	 211	 9	 3,897	 4,466	 31,872
Additions	 727	 —	 13	 115	 134	 989
Disposals	 (396)	 —	 —	 (20)	 (36)	 (452)
At 31 December 2014 23,620 211 22 3,992 4,564 32,409
accumulated depreciation 
 and impairment      
At	1	January	2013	 11,125	 143	 —	 3,174	 2,431	 16,873
Charge for the year 2,455 22 1 338 369 3,185
Disposals	 (366)	 (99)	 —	 (143)	 (60)	 (668)
Impairment	 160	 —	 —	 —	 —	 160
At	1	January	2014	 13,374	 66	 1	 3,369	 2,740	 19,550
Charge for the year 2,476 25 5 230 351 3,087
Disposals	 (237)	 —	 —	 (18)	 (16)	 (271)
Impairment	 89	 —	 —	 —	 —	 89
At 31 December 2014 15,702 91 6 3,581 3,075 22,455
carrying amount      
At 31 December 2014 7,918 120 16 411 1,489 9,954
At 31 December 2013 9,915 145 8 528 1,726 12,322
Capital commitments for tangible and intangible assets are disclosed in note 32.
18. suBsiDiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in  
note C to the Company’s separate financial statements.
19. inventories
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Retail and scrap stock 29,500 29,748
  
Of the retail and scrap stock approximately 98.6% represents gold, jewellery and watch items. The remaining balance is miscellaneous items (mostly 
electrical goods and art pieces) which were previously held as pledge collaterals and subsequently forfeited.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
53
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. traDe anD other receivaBles 
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Trade receivables 40,970 45,118
Other receivables 217 211
Pledge	accrued	income	 6,067 6,750
Pr epayments	and	other	accrued	income	 2,169 2,043
 49,423 54,122
Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of impairment. 
Cash and Cash equivalents 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 8,250 8,251
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Further details on financial instruments, including the associated risks to the Group and allowances for bad and doubtful debts and fair values,  
is provided in note 26.
 
21. traDe anD other P ayaBles
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Trade payables 1,505 1,092
Other taxation and social security costs 533 504
Accruals and deferred income 4,015 3,742
 6,053 5,338
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 29 days (2013 – 30 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the first 30 days from the date of 
the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The Group has financial risk management policies  
in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Corporation tax 328 1,076 H&T GROUP PLC
54
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 22. Borrowings
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
secured borrowing at amortised cost  
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,925 3,000
t otal borrowings due for settlement within one year 1,925 3,000
Long	term	portion	of	bank	loan	 16,000 26,000
Unamortised issue costs (242) (395)
amount due for settlement after more than one year 15,758 25,605
The	Gr oup	enter ed	into	a	four	year	Cr edit	Agr eement	with	Lloyds	Bank	plc	on	30	January	2013.	This	facility	for	general	trading	allowed	for	maximum	
borrowings of £50m, with a margin of between 1.25% and 2.25% dependent on leverage ratios.
The key terms of the facility are:
key teRm desCRiption 
Total Facility Size £50m
 
T ermination	Date	 30	January	2017
 
Utilisation The facility is available to be drawn down to the full £50m so long as the Company remains   
 compliant with leverage and interest cover ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Margin	 The	facility	has	an	inter est	calculation	of	LIBOR	plus	a	margin	of	between	1.25%	and	2.25%,		 	
 dependent on ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Inter est	Payable	 Inter est	due	on	the	loans	is	payable	at	each	inter est	period	end.	
	 As	at	31	January	2014,	the	inter est	period	was	1	month.
 Interest amounts outstanding at the year end are included in accruals.
 
Fixed Repayments No capital repayments prior to termination date.
defeRRed deBt issue Costs Ther e	wer e	£153,000	of	deferr ed	debt	issue	costs	written	of f	in	the	period	to	P&L	(2013:	£140,000).
seCuRity The	facility	is	secur ed	by	a	fixed	and	floating	charge	over	various	assets	of	the	Gr oup.
undRawn BoRRowing faCilities At 31 December 2014, the Company had available £32,075,000 (2013: £21,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met.
  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
55
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. DeferreD tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year.
  hold over short term share Derivative
 PPe capital timing based financial 
 differences gain differences payment instruments total
 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
At	1	January	2013	 85	 157	 (652)	 (313)	 —	 (723)
Prior	year	adjustment	 73	 —	 —	 —	 —	 73
(Cr edit)/charge	to	income	 (188)	 (15)	 (51)	 180	 	 (74)
Cr edit	to	equity	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
At	1	January	2014	 (30)	 142	 (703)	 (133)	 —	 (724)
Prior	year	adjustment	 83	 —	 —	 —	 —	 83
(Cr edit)	to	income	 (200)	 (12)	 397	 (71)	 —	 114
Debit	to	equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
As	31	December	2014	 (147)	 130	 (306)	 (204)	 —	 (527)
      
Deferred tax assets and liabilities all relate to the same tax jurisdiction and taxable entities, and are expected to reverse over the same time periods. 
Accordingly, these have been offset in the balance sheet.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015, was 
substantively	enacted	on	2	July	2013.	This	rate	r eduction	has	been	r eflected	in	the	calculation	of	deferr ed	tax	at	the	balance	sheet	date.
The utilisation of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable 
temporary difference.
24. Provisions
 Provision for dilapidation 
 and onerous leases
 £’000
 
At	1	January	2014	 1,158
Additional provision 592
Pr ovision	utilised	in	the	year	 (260)
At 31 December 2014 1,490
 
The dilapidation provision represents management’s best estimate of the Company’s liability to repair and maintain certain of the properties 
contracted under operating lease agreements and settled at the individual lease end dates. At the reporting date no demand to enforce the 
dilapidation contractual obligations has been made by the related property landlords.
Pr ovisions	for	oner ous	leases	ar e	r ecognised	when	the	Company	believes	that	the	unavoidable	costs	of	meeting	the	lease	obligations	exceed	the	
economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
25. contingent liaBilities 
A claim has been made against the Company in respect of a transaction involving the sale of a piece of art to a third party which was ultimately 
unsuccessful. The claim is that H&T agreed to purchase the item, H&T’s position is that it was acting as agent only. H&T considers that the claim  
is without merit and intends to defend it vigorously. If H&T were to lose this case then we estimate the total cost would be approximately £0.7m.
  H&T GROUP PLC
56
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 26. financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, as defined under IAS 39, and their estimated fair values are as follows:
 fair value  financial
 through  liabilities at Book fair
 profit loans and amortised value value
 or loss receivables cost total total
at 31 December 2014 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
financial assets     
Pawnbr oking	trade	r eceivables	 —	 43,888	 —	 43,888	 45,698
Cheque	Cashing	trade	r eceivables	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Other	financial	services	trade	r eceivables	 —	 3,129	 —	 3,129	 3,129
Other	assets	 —	 256	 —	 256	 256
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 —	 8,250	 —	 8,250	 8,250
financial liabilities     
T rade	and	other	payables	 —	 —	 (6,130)	 (6,130)	 (6,130)
Borr owings	due	within	one	year	 —	 —	 (1,925)	 (1,925	 (1,925)
Borr owings	due	mor e	than	one	year	 —	 —	 (15,758)	 (15,758)	 (15,758)
net financial assets/(liabilities) 	 —	 55,523	 (23,813)	 31,710	 33,520
     
 Fair value  Financial
 through  liabilities at Book Fair
	 pr ofit	 Loans	and	 amortised	 value	 value
 or loss receivables cost total total
At 31 December 2013 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
financial assets     
Pawnbr oking	trade	r eceivables	 —	 49,824	 —	 49,824	 55,811
Cheque	Cashing	trade	r eceivables	 —	 33	 —	 33	 33
Other	financial	services	trade	r eceivables	 —	 1,953	 —	 1,953	 1,953
Other	assets	 —	 269	 —	 269	 269
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 —	 5,251	 —	 5,251	 5,251
financial liabilities     
T rade	and	other	payables	 —	 —	 (4,632)	 (4,632)	 (4,632)
Borr owings	due	mor e	than	one	year	 —	 —	 (25,605)	 (25,605)	 (25,605)
net financial assets/(liabilities) 	 —	 57,330	 (30,237)	 27,093	 33,080
f aiR value The assumptions used by the Group to estimate the current fair values are summarised below:
(i)	 For	trade	r eceivables	r elating	to	Pawnbr oking,	the	fair	value	has	been	calculated	by	adding:
•	 The	principal	outstanding	on	pawn	loans;	
•	 The	inter est	r eceivable	accrued	using	the	ef fective	inter est	rate	method;	and
•	 Assumed	scrap	pr ofits	on	the	pr oportion	of	the	Gr oup’ s	pledge	book	that	is	not	expected	to	be	r edeemed,	i.e.	those	loans	upon	which	the	
Group does not recognise interest due to the uncertainty of recovery.
(ii) Other trade receivables and other assets are considered to have fair values which are the same as their book values due to the short period over 
which they will be recovered. Book values for both Cheque Cashing and financial services trade receivables are calculated net of provisions, and 
hence represent the Group’s best estimate of recovery values based upon recent debt collections experience.
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents are all held on interest bearing bank accounts are considered to have a fair value the same as their book value. 
(iv) For borrowings and trade and other payables, the book value approximates to fair value because of their short maturities and interest rates where 
applicable.	None	of	the	trade	or	other	payables	ar e	inter est	bearing.	The	borr owings	ar e	all	held	at	floating	inter est	rates	which	appr oximate	
market rates, and accordingly, the book value and fair value are the same.
The	fair	value	of	the	Pawnbr oking	trade	r eceivables	is	determined	using	a	model	wher e	the	inputs	ar e	derived	fr om	historical	tr ends	monitor ed	by	the	
group. This valuation therefore falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy in IAS 39. The fair value of all other financial instruments is equivalent to 
their book value due to their short maturities. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
57
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26. financial instruments (continueD)
finanCial Risks The Group monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the financial instruments held. The principal risks include credit risk on financial 
assets, and liquidity and interest rate risk on financial liability borrowings. The key risks are analysed below.
CRedit Risk p awnbroKing tradE rEcEivablEs The Group is exposed to credit risk through customers defaulting on their loans. The key mitigant to this risk is the requirement for the borrower to 
provide collateral (the pledge) in entering a pawnbroking contract. The collateral acts to minimise credit risk as a customer’s pledge becomes the 
property of the pawnbroker on default of the loan. 
In addition to holding collateral, the Group further mitigates credit risk by:
(i) Applying strict lending criteria to all pawn loans:
Pledges	ar e	rigor ously	tested	and	appr opriately	valued.	In	all	cases	wher e	the	Gr oup	lending	policy	is	applied,	the	value	of	the	pledge	items	is	in	
excess of the pawn loan.
The Group estimate that the current fair value of the collateral is equal to the current book value. 
 
(ii)  Seeking to improve redemption ratios:
For existing customers, loan history and repayment profiles are factored into the loan making decision. The Group has a high customer retention 
ratio and all customers are offered high customer service levels.
Given the current price of gold, a fall in redemption ratios is forecast to result in higher scrap profits more than offsetting the lost interest received.  
A	1%	decr ease/incr ease	in	the	Gr oup’ s	r edemption	ratio	is	estimated	to	impact	the	pr e-tax	pr ofit	by	£90,000/(£90,000).	This	does	not	account	 
for lost repeat business however, and as such the Group sees more value in retaining a high redemption ratio.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to risk in recovery of the loan amounts, which is considered to be similar to credit risk, due to:
(i) assets being pledged as security against loans, which are subsequently seized by the police; and
(ii) assets being pledged as security against loans which are subsequently lost or stolen, resulting in the borrower being relieved of the liability  
to the Group.
The legal title that the Group can enforce on these items, and their ongoing security are therefore vital to the Group to ensure that the credit risk is 
mitigated to an acceptable level. The Group continually reviews and monitors, at both store and at Board level, its internal controls to ensure the 
adequacy of the pledged items. The key aspects of this are:
•	 Appr opriate	details	ar e	kept	on	all	customers	the	Gr oup	transacts	with;
•	 All	pawn	contracts	comply	with	the	Consumer	Cr edit	Act	2006;
•	 Appr opriate	physical	security	measur es	ar e	in	place	to	pr otect	pledged	items;	and
•	 An	inter nal	audit	department	monitors	compliance	with	policies	at	the	Gr oup’ s	stor es.
The	Pawnbr oking	trade	r eceivables	ar e	disclosed	net	of	the	pr ovision	for	bad	and	doubtful	debts	associated	with	these	financial	assets,	including	full	
provision on assets notified to the Group by the police as frozen assets. The movement in the provision is as follows:
 £’000
 
Balance	at	1	January	2013	 448
 
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge 1,059
Written off (514)
Balance at 31 December 2013 993
 
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  (366)
Written off 61
Balance at 31 December 2014 688
  H&T GROUP PLC
58
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 26. financial instruments (continueD)
CRedit Risk (Continued)
p awnbroKing tradE rEcEivablEs (continuEd)
The ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
0 – 90 days 5,949 7,812
Over 90 days 1,773 2,518
Total 7,722 10,330
  
The Group has not provided for the £7,722,000 (2013 – £10,330,000) contractually overdue receivables (i.e. loans where the pawn agreement has 
terminated but the customer has not redeemed the assets) at the reporting date since the realisable value of the collaterals held is greater than 
the carrying value of the pledge loan as disclosed above. The Group does not start the disposition process of the unredeemed pledges until three 
months after the end of the credit agreement since it is commercial practice to allow additional time for the customers to redeem their pledged 
items, for an additional fee. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £43,888,000 (2013 – £49,824,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts offset and 
any impairment losses.
othEr tradE rEcEivablEs This class represents amounts recoverable by the Group through receivables arising from the other financial services activities it engages in, and 
is	exposed	to	cr edit	risk	thr ough	default	on	the	loan	amounts	for	Personal	Loans,	or	default	fr om	the	drawer	for	Thir d	Party	Cheque	Encashment.	
On each product the Group employs appropriate policies to mitigate the credit risk including credit checks, obtaining legal security provided and 
appropriate staff recruitment and training policies. The Group monitors the ongoing risk associated with this class of financial assets through a 
continual review of bad debts, modifications to the lending policy, and internal audit activities. In the event of default by the customer, the Group  
has also developed a debt collection department to recover any outstanding debt. 
Personal	Loans	and	Other	Services	r eceivables	ar e	disclosed	net	of	pr ovisions	for	bad	and	doubtful	debts,	an	analysis	of	which	is	as	follows:	
  
 Personal loans other services t otal
 £’000 £’000  £’000
Balance	at	1	January	2013	 1,046	 48	 1,094
   
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  27 (383) (356)
Written off (422) 369 (53)
Balance at 31 December 2013 651 34 685
   
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  2,626 (1,358) 1,268
Written off (2,250) 1,351 (899)
Balance at 31 December 2014 1,027 27 1,054
   
The Group has no overdue but not provided receivables at the reporting date (2013: none). Trade receivables not overdue are provided for based  
on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. 
cash and cash EquivalEnts The	cash	and	cash	equivalents	balance	comprises	both	bank	balances	and	cash	floats	at	the	stor es.	The	bank	balances	ar e	subject	to	very	limited	
cr edit	risk	as	they	ar e	held	with	banking	institutions	with	high	cr edit	ratings	assigned	by	inter national	cr edit	rating	agencies.	The	cash	floats	ar e	
subject to risks similar to any retailer, namely of theft or loss by employees or third parties. These risks are mitigated by the security systems, policies 
and procedures that the Group operates at each store, the Group recruitment and training policies and the internal audit function. 
The concentration of net bank balances by counterparty financial institution is as follows:
 Credit 2014 2013
 rating £’000  £’000
Barclays Bank plc A2 3,729 3,933
Lloyds	Bank	plc	 A1	 66 75
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Baa1 151 335
Cash	at	stor es	 —	 4,304 3,908
  8,250 8,251 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
59
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26. financial instruments (continueD)
maRket Risk p awnbroKing tradE rEcEivablEs The collateral which protects the Group from credit risk on non-redemption of pawn loans is 99% (2013 – 99%) comprised of gold, jewellery items 
and watches. The value of gold items held as security is directly linked to the price of gold. The Group is therefore exposed to adverse movements in 
the price of gold on the value of the security that would be attributable for sale in the event of default by the borrower. The Group considers this risk 
to	be	limited	for	a	number	of	r easons.	First	of	all,	the	Gr oup	applies	conservative	lending	policies	in	pawnbr oking	pledges	r eflected	in	the	blended	
margin made on retail sales and scrap gold when contracts forfeit. The value of gold for our customers is also much greater than the price of gold 
since jewellery items contain a retail margin. The Group is also protected due to the short term value of the pawn contract (6 months). In the event 
of a significant drop in the price of gold, the Group could mitigate this risk by reducing its lending policy on pawnbroking pledges, by increasing 
the proportion of gold sold through retail sales or by entering gold hedging instruments. Management monitors the gold price on a constant basis. 
During 2014 the cost of goods sold through the retail channel increased 35% to reduce the Group’s exposure to gold price.
Considering areas outside of those financial assets defined under IAS 39, the Group is subject to higher degrees of pricing risk. The price of gold  
will affect future Group profitability in three key ways:
(i) A lower gold price will adversely affect the scrap disposition margins on existing stock, whether generated by pledge book forfeits or via the 
Group’s purchasing operations. While scrap profits will be impacted immediately, retail margins may be less impacted in the short term. 
(ii) While the Group’s lending and purchasing rates do not track gold price movements in the short term, any sustained fall in the price of gold is 
likely to cause lending and purchasing rates to fall in the longer term thus potentially reducing future profitability as:
a. the size of the pledge book and associated yield is directly linked to lending rates, and
b. assuming constant disposition margins, absolute disposition profits would decrease as lending and purchasing rates decrease. 
(iii)	 A	lower	gold	price	may	r educe	the	attractiveness	of	the	Gr oup’ s	Gold	Pur chasing	operations.
Conversely, a lower gold price may dampen competition as lower returns are available and hence this may assist in sustaining margins.
 
liquidity Risk borrowings The Group has significant borrowings exposing it to liquidity risk in both repayment of borrowings and availability of finance. In order to mitigate this risk, 
the Group uses a mixture of short-term and long-term debt finance with banking institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-
rating agencies. The current borrowings are disclosed in detail in note 22, which shows that the Group has arrangements in place for funding until 
2017. At 31 December 2014, the Group also has available £32,100,000 (2013: £24,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of 
which all conditions precedent had been met. This level of headroom is considered sufficient to finance operations at the current level, and as described 
in note 22, the Group currently has a £50m facility which is available to draw upon. Furthermore, as shown in note 30, the business generates a 
positive 	 cash 	 flow 	 fr om 	 operating 	 activities 	 and 	 has 	 discr etion 	 in 	 its 	 expansion 	 pr ogramme 	 should 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 need 	 to 	 impr ove 	 short 	 term 	 cash 	 flow .
The Group is in full compliance with all loan covenants. 
The	maturity	analysis	of	the	cash	flows	arising	fr om	both	curr ent	borr owing	arrangements	that	expose	the	Gr oup	to	liquidity	risk	ar e	as	follows:
    60 days 180
  less than 30 to 60 to 180 days to 1-2 2-3 3-4
  30 days days days 1 year years years years total
Payments due by period  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
at 31 December 2014        
Floating rate borrowings  26 26 105 163 321 321 16,027 16,989
T rade	and	other	payables	 	 1,505	 4,625	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 6,130
total  1,531 4,651 105 163 321 321 16,027 23,119
        
    60 days 180
	 	 Less	than	 30	to	60	 to	180	 days	to	 1-2	 2-3	 3-4
  30 days days days 1 year years years years Total
Payments	due	by	period	 	 £’000		 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
at 31 December 2013        
Floating rate borrowings  36 36 144 216 432 432 23,036 24,332
T rade	and	other	payables	 	 1,092	 3,540	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 4,632
total  1,128 3,576 144 216 432 432 23,036 28,964
The	amounts	r eported	above	for	floating	rate	borr owings	include	the	principal	amount	of	borr owings	as	well	as	the	inter est	payable	on	these	
borr owings.	The	floating	rates	used	to	pr edict	the	inter est	cash	flows	ar e	based	on	the	r elevant	LIBOR	yield	curve	derived	fr om	quoted	inter est	rates.	
The	above	amounts	ar e	contractual,	undiscounted	cash	flows. H&T GROUP PLC
60
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 26. financial instruments (continueD)
inteRest Rate Risk borrowings The	Gr oup	is	funded	based	on	a	combination	of	equity	and	bank	borr owings.	The	bank	borr owings	ar e	all	held	at	floating	rates	based	on	LIBOR.	
Accor dingly	the	Gr oup	is	exposed	to	cash	flow	risk	thr ough	changes	in	the	LIBOR	rate	impacting	cash	flows.	
Analysis	is	shown	below	to	demonstrate	the	sensitivity	on	pr ofitability	of	a	1%	change	in	LIBOR,	subject	to	LIBOR	being	a	minimum	of	0%.	The	
analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1.0% increase 
or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the 
reasonably possible change in interest rates.
 1.0% decrease 1.0% increase
 in interest rates in interest rates
 £’000  £’000
at 31 December 2014  
Finance	costs:	gain/(loss)	 81 (160)
T otal	pr e	tax	impact	on	pr ofit	fr om	gain/(loss)	 81 (160)
Post	tax	impact	on	equity	gain/(loss)	 63 (126)
at 31 December 2013  
Finance	costs:	gain/(loss)	 137	 (260)
T otal	pr e	tax	impact	on	pr ofit	fr om	gain/(loss)	 137	 (260)
Post	tax	impact	on	equity	gain/(loss)	 105	 (199)
  
Financial assEts The Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk on the financial assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, as these are lent at fixed 
rates,	which	r eflect	curr ent	market	rates	for	similar	types	of	secur ed	or	unsecur ed	lending,	and	ar e	held	at	amortised	cost.
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	ar e	exposed	to	inter est	rate	risk	as	they	ar e	held	at	floating	rates,	although	the	risk	is	not	significant	as	the	inter est	
receivable is not significant.
27. share caPital
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
issued and fully paid   
36,856,264 (2013 – 36,856,264) ordinary shares of £0.05 each  1,843 1,843
  
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
In 2014 there were no issue of shares.
In 2013 270,008 new ordinary £0.05 shares were issued, called up and fully paid. Of these new ordinary shares, 6,193 were issued to satisfy options 
granted in 2009 exercised at a grant price of £1.94 per share, resulting in an increase in share capital of £310 and in the share premium account of 
£11,705.	The	r emaining	263,815	wer e	issued	as	part	of	the	Gr oup	L TIP	scheme	as	noted	below ,	r esulting	in	an	incr ease	in	shar e	capital	of	£13,191	
with no change in the share premium account.
Options over shares of the Company are disclosed in note 28. Under these share option arrangements, there are 1,585,477 (2013 – 1,648,484) 
open options over shares.
employee Benefit tRust shaRes ReseR ve The Group presents these conditional shares as an adjustment to own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares 
r eserve,	until	the	point	that	the	shar es	ar e	awar ded,	and	cease	to	be	conditional	awar ds	of	shar es.	The	awar d	of	shar es	under	the	L TIP	is	conditional	
upon certain vesting criteria, as outlined in note 28.
Movements in this reserve are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. share caPital (continueD)
Capital Risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders 
through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in 
note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
geaRing Ratio Although the Group reviews its gearing ratio at each reporting date, no specific target has been fixed by management. The Group’s gearing ratio  
at the year end is as follows:
 2014  2013
gearing ratio £’000  £’000
Debt 17,925 29,000
Cash and cash equivalents (8,250) (8,251)
Net debt 9,675 20,749
Equity 90,863 88,128
Net debt to equity ratio 10.6% 23.5%
Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 22, before unamortised issue costs.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Company.
exteRnally imposed Capital RequiRement The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
28. share-BaseD P ayments
As at 31 December 2014, the Company operated three share award schemes. The charge for the year in respect of all schemes was:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
A. Approved Share Option Scheme 68 91
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme 3 13
C.	Long-term	Incentive	Plan	 178	 134
 249 238
  
Awards that can be granted under the three schemes total a maximum of 3,685,626 shares (2013 – 3,685,626 shares). 
a. appRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘asos’)
The Approved Share Option Scheme is a share option scheme approved by HMRC where favourable tax treatment is received on exercise by the 
employee. The options may be granted to all management from Shop Manager to Executive Director level. The Remuneration Committee of the 
ultimate parent company, H&T Group plc, sets the performance conditions.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have already been met. The performance 
conditions applicable to grants in subsequent years are as follows: 
•	 Options	granted	in	2011,	2012	and	2013	become	exer cisable	subject	to	continued	employment	within	the	Gr oup	as	at	the	exer cise	date.	
Early exercise of the options is permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his 
employing company.
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows:
  exercise  earliest
  price number date of expiry
 grant date  pence of shares exercise  date
ASOS	2006	 September	2006	 182.5	 26,564	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
ASOS	2007	 May	2007	 217.5	 26,940	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
ASOS	2008	 May	2008	 175.5	 40,351	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
ASOS	2009	 April	2009	 194.0	 57,211	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
ASOS	2010	 April	2010	 245.5	 119,234	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
ASOS	2011	 April	2011	 298.5	 138,776	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
ASOS	2012	 Mar ch	2012	 297.0	 170,118	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
ASOS	2013	 Mar ch	2013	 292.25	 195,285	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023 H&T GROUP PLC
62
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 28. share-BaseD P ayments (continueD)
a. appRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘asos’) (Continued)
The Group did not issue any share options during 2014. For the 2013 an external valuation firm has calculated the fair value of the options granted  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard (“IFRS”) 2. A Black-Scholes model was used to value the ASOS awards as they do  
not contain any market based performance condition. The fair value calculated and assumptions used are as follows:
  2013
 
Fair value at measurement date  46.20 pence
Weighted average share price  292.25 pence
Weighted average exercise price   292.25 pence
Expected volatility  27.6%
Expected life  6.5 years
Risk-free rate  1.068%
Expected dividends  4.1%
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc shares as an estimate  
of future volatility. The expected life used in the model for 2013 has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of  
non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A reconciliation of option movements for the ASOS is set out below:
   2014  2013
   weighted  Weighted
   average  average
  number exercise Number exercise
  of share price of share price
 options  (in pence) options  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 814,564 268.1 732,330 261.2
Granted during the period — — 254,703 292.3
Forfeited during the period (40,085) 278.5 (166,276) 277.6
Exercised during the period — — (6,193) 194.0
Outstanding at the end of the period 774,479 267.5 814,564 268.1
Exercisable at the end of the period 409,076 243.44 278,901 215.28
 
B. unappRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘usos’)
The Unapproved Share Option Scheme is a discretionary option scheme under which the Remuneration Committee of H&T Group plc may grant 
options to all executive directors and Senior Management of the Company. The Remuneration Committee of H&T Group plc sets the performance 
conditions.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have already been met. The performance 
conditions applicable to grants in subsequent years are as follows: 
•	 In	2011,	2012	and	2013	that	an	option	may	not	be	exer cisable	unless	the	T otal	Shar eholder	Retur n	(TSR)	over	3	years	exceeds	the	FTSE	AIM	
100 performance. 
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment over a three year period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the options is 
permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
63
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. share-BaseD P ayments (continueD)
B. unappRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘usos’) (Continued)
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
  exercise  earliest
  price number date of expiry
 grant date  pence of shares exercise  date
USOS	2006	 September	2006	 182.5	 126,027	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
USOS	2007	 May	2007	 217.5	 112,643	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
USOS	2008	 May	2008	 175.5	 146,424	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
USOS	2009	 April	2009	 194.0	 152,215	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
USOS	2010	 April	2010	 245.5	 226,740	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
USOS	2011	 April	2011	 298.5	 8,730	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
USOS	2012	 Mar ch	2012	 297.0	 11,260	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
USOS	2013	 Mar ch	2013	 292.25	 26,929	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023
The Group did not issue any share options during 2014. For the 2013 an external valuation firm has undertaken fair value calculations of the options 
granted during the year using a Black-Scholes model, with the results and key assumptions as follows:
  2013
 
Fair value at measurement date  46.20 pence
Weighted average share price  292.25 pence
Weighted average exercise price   292.25pence
Expected volatility  27.6%
Expected life   6.5 years
Risk-free rate  1.068%
Expected dividends  4.1%
 
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc shares as an estimate  
of future volatility. The expected life used in the model for 2013 has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of  
non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A reconciliation of option movements for the USOS is set out below:
   2014  2013
   weighted  Weighted
   average  average
  number exercise Number exercise
  of share price of share price
 options  (in pence) options  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 833,920 214.7 932,354 218.5
Granted during the period — — 36,119 292.3
Forfeited during the period (22,952) 298.5 (134,553) 262.0
Exercised during the period — — 	 —	 —
Outstanding at the end of the period 810,968 212.4 833,920 214.7
Exercisable at the end of the period 772,779 208.3 764,049 207.3 H&T GROUP PLC
64
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 28. share-BaseD P ayments (continueD)
C. long-teRm inCentive plan (‘ltip’)
The	L TIP	is	a	discr etionary	shar e	incentive	scheme	under	which	the	Remuneration	Committee	of	H&T	Gr oup	plc	can	grant	or dinary	shar es	at	no	cost	
to executive directors and other senior management. 
The	L TIP	operates	as	conditional	shar es	awar ded	over	a	defined	year	performance	period	and	subject	to	continued	employment	over	a	thr ee	year	
period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the conditional shares is permitted if a share award holder ceases to be employed by reason of 
death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company.
The performance condition applicable to the 2011 and 2012 grants are as follows: 
•	 That	the	awar d	may	not	be	exer cisable	unless	the	TSR	of	H&T	Gr oup	plc	over	the	performance	period	exceeds	the	TSR	of	the	FTSE	AIM	 
100 index. 
•	 For	the	2011	grant,	this	is	measur ed	over	thr ee	separate	performance	periods.	One	thir d	of	the	awar d	vests	if	the	condition	is	met	in	the	2011	
calendar year. A further third vests if the condition is met in the 2012 calendar year and the final third vests if the condition is satisfied in the 2013 
calendar year.
•	 For	the	2012	grant,	the	performance	period	is	fr om	1	January	2012	to	31	December	2014.
The performance condition applicable to the 2013 grant is as follows:
•	 The	performance	period	is	fr om	1	January	2013	to	31	December	2015.
•	 The	awar d	cannot	be	exer cised	unless	the	per centage	gr owth	in	the	Gr oup’ s	Pr ofit	Befor e	T ax	over	the	performance	period	is	gr eater	than	
22.35%	(“the	Lower	Limit”).
•	 If	the	per centage	gr owth	in	the	Gr oup’ s	Pr ofit	Befor e	T ax	over	the	Performance	Period	is	equal	to	or	gr eater	than	52%	(“the	Upper	T arget”),	 
the Award may be exercised as to 100% of the Shares subject to the Award.
•	 If	the	gr owth	in	the	Gr oup’ s	Pr ofit	Befor e	T ax	is	between	the	Lower	Limit	and	the	Upper	T arget	then	the	A war d	may	only	be	exer cised	over	such	
percentage between 0% and 100% of the Shares subject to the Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares) as relates to the 
amount	by	which,	on	a	straight	line	basis,	the	Lower	T arget	has	been	exceeded.
    
    earliest date expiry
   grant date  of exercise  date
L TIP	2012	 	 	 Apr	2012	 190,497	 17/04/2015
L TIP	2013	 	 	 Mar	2013	 198,513	 28/03/2016
The Group did not issue any conditional shares during 2014. For the 2013 the conditional shares granted during the year were valued by an external 
valuation firm using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value result and key assumptions used in 2013 valuation were as follows:
  2013
Fair value at measurement date  292.2 pence
Weighted average share price  292.25 pence
Weighted average exercise price  0 pence
Expected volatility   29%
Expected life   3.0 years
Risk free rate  0.8595 %
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc as an indicator of the future 
volatility. Correlation between the Group and the comparator index was not included within the modelling of fair value calculations since the observed 
correlation was not significant and would therefore have negligible impact on the final fair value.
A	r econciliation	of	conditional	shar e	movements	for	the	L TIP	is	set	out	below:
   2014  2013
   weighted  Weighted
  number average Number average
  of share exercise price of share exercise price
 options  (in pence) options  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 556,858 — 	 505,658	 —
Granted during the period — — 	 263,815	 —
Forfeited during the period (103,866) — 	 (212,615)	 —
Exercised during the period (63,982) — 	 —	 —
Outstanding at the end of the period 389,010 — 	 556,858	 — ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. oPerating lease arrangements
the gRoup as lessee 
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 6,643 7,004
  
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
 land and buildings  other
 2014 2013 2014 2013
 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Within one year 6,293 6,296 115 138
In the second to fifth years inclusive 17,569 16,545 175 154
After five years 12,359 13,564 —	—
 36,221 36,405 290 292
    
Significant	operating	lease	payments	r epr esent	r entals	payable	by	the	Gr oup	for	r ental	of	stor e	pr emises.	Leases	ar e	normally	negotiated	for	an	
average term of 10 years at the then prevailing market rate, with a break option after 5 years.
The Group also sublets some of the premises above the stores, the outstanding receipts from which are immaterial.
30. notes to the cash flow statement
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	 4,255 4,851
  
Adjustments for:  
 Investment revenues (1) (1)
 Finance costs 708 842
 Movement in provisions 332 640
 Tax expense – Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1,255 1,882
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,087 3,185
 Amortisation of intangible assets 383 419
 Impairment 99 517
 Share-based payment expense 246 238
	Loss	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment		 181 187
Operating	cash	flows	befor e	movements	in	working	capital	 10,545 12,760
  
	Decr ease/(incr ease)	in	inventories	 405 (3,359)
 Decrease in receivables 4,941 10,970
	Decr ease/(incr ease)	in	payables	 846 (731)
Cash generated from operations 16,737 19,640
  
 Income taxes paid (1,806) (3,009)
 Debt restructuring cost — (535)
 Interest paid (558) (691)
Net cash generated from operating activities 14,373 15,405
  
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other 
short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
  H&T GROUP PLC
66
notes to the consoliD ateD financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 31. relateD P arty transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed  
in this note. 
Transactions with directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Report and note 9. There were no other material related party transactions during the year. 
RemuneRation of key management peRsonnel The	r emuneration	of	the	dir ectors	of	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited,	the	trading	subsidiary ,	who	ar e	the	key	management	personnel	of	the	Gr oup,	 
is	set	out	below	in	aggr egate	for	each	of	the	categories	specified	in	IAS	24	‘Related	Party	Disclosur es’:
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Short-term employee benefits 867 1,082
Pension	contributions	 56 71
Share-based payments 95 123
 1,018 1,276
32. caPital commitments 
There is no significant capital expenditure authorised and contracted for but not provided in the accounts (2013 – £nil). 
33. events after the Balance sheet Date 
The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 2.7p (2013 – 2.7p) (note 14).
 
  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the Company financial 
statements of H&T Group plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 which comprise 
the	Par ent	Company	Balance	Sheet,	the	
Par ent	Company	combined	r econciliation	
of movements in shareholders’ funds and 
statement of movement on reserves and the 
related notes A to F. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	Companies	Act	
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
resPective resPonsiBilities of 
Directors anD auDitor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply	with	the	Auditing	Practices	Boar d’ s	
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
scoPe of the auDit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the 
parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that 
is apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
oPinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial 
statements:
•	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state	 
of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2014 and for company’s 
loss for year ended;
•	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in	
accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting  
Practice; 	 and
•	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance	 
with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
oPinion on other matters 
PrescriBeD By the comP anies  
act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with  
the parent company financial statements.
matters on which we are requireD 
to rePort By excePtion
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 2006 
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 have 	 not 	 been	
kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 financial 	 statements 	
are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
•	 certain 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 dir ectors’ 	 r emuneration	
specified by law are not made; or
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and	
explanations we require for our audit.
other matters
We have reported separately on the group 
financial statements of H&T Group plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2014.
ian J smith fca (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for	and	on	behalf	of	Deloitte	LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Crawley, United Kingdom
4 March 2015
inDepenDent auDitor’s report  
to the members of h&t group plc H&T GROUP PLC
68
c ompany balance sheet
At 31 December 2014
  2014  2013
 Note £’000  £’000
Property, plant and equipment   
Investments C 1,375 1,129
  1,375 1,129
current assets   
Debtors D 61,587 61,589
Cash at bank and in hand  46 46
  61,633 61,635
creditors: amounts falling due within one year E (16,306) (14,366)
net current assets  45,327 47,269
t otal assets less current liabilities  46,702 48,398
net assets  46,702 48,398
capital and reserves   
Called up share capital F 1,843 1,843
Share premium account  25,409 25,409
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve  (35) (38)
Share option reserve  1,375 1,129
Pr ofit	and	loss	account	 	 18,110 20,055
t otal shareholders’ funds  46,702 48,398
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 05188117, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on  
4 March 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by:
J g nichols
Chief Executive ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
69
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c ompany combineD reconciliation of movements 
in shareholDers’ funDs anD statement of movements on reserves For the year ended 31 December 2014
    employee
    benefit
   share  trust share Profit
  share premium shares option and loss 2014
2014  capital account reserve reserves account total
company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At	1	January	 	 1,843	 25,409	 (38)	 1,129	 20,055	 48,398
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (176)	 (176)
Dividend	paid	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (1,769)	 (1,769)
Issue	of	shar e	capital	 F	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Employee	Benefit	T rust	shar es	 	 —	 —	 3	 —	 —	 3
Shar e	option	cr edit	taken	dir ectly	to	equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 246	 —	 246
At 31 December  1,843 25,409 (35) 1,375 18,110 46,702
    Employee
    benefit
	 	 	 Shar e		 trust	 Shar e	 Pr ofit
  Share premium shares option and loss 2013
2013  capital account reserve reserves account Total
Company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At	1	January	 	 1,830	 25,397	 (25)	 891	 3,955	 32,048
       
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 19,838	 19,838
Dividend	paid	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (3,738)	 (3,738)
Issue of share capital F 13 12    25
Employee	Benefit	T rust	shar es	 	 —	 —	 (13)	 —	 —	 (13)
Shar e	option	cr edit	taken	dir ectly	to	equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 238	 —	 238
At 31 December  1,843 25,409 (38) 1,129 20,055 48,398 H&T GROUP PLC
70
notes to the company financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014
a. accounting Policies
Basis of pRepaRation The Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the current and preceding financial year.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors’ Report.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
aCCounting Convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
t axation Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively	enacted	by	the	balance	sheet	date.	Wher e	tax	losses	ar e	surr ender ed	to,	or	r eceived	fr om,	gr oup	companies,	the	amount	r eceived/
surr ender ed	is	charged/cr edited	to	the	pr ofit	and	loss	account	and	tr eated	as	payable	to/r eceivable	fr om	the	r elated	gr oup	party	that	has	
surr ender ed/r eceived	the	losses.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing 
differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of 
gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be 
deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. 
investments Fixed assets investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
finanCial liaBilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
dividends 
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings are recorded in the profit and loss account on the date that the dividend becomes a binding 
liability on the subsidiary company. Under the terms of FRS 6 ‘Acquisitions and mergers’, the Company records dividends arising from pre-
acquisition profit and loss reserves of its subsidiary undertaking in the profit and loss account and considers whether the distribution affects the 
carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary undertaking.
Dividends payable are recorded as a distribution from retained earnings in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
Related paR ty tRansaCtions The	Company	has	taken	advantage	of	the	exemption	contained	in	FRS	8,	‘Related	Party	Disclosur es’,	available	to	par ent	Company’ s	pr esenting	
single company financial statements together with the consolidated Group financial statements of the Group headed by the Company, not to 
disclose transactions with entities that are part of the group headed by H&T Group plc or investees of the group qualifying as related parties. 
There are no other related party transactions of the Company that require disclosure.
Cash flow statement The 	 Company 	 is 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 in 	 the 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 gr oup, 	 which 	 pr epar es 	 consolidated 	 financial 	 statements, 	 including 	 a 	 cash 	 flow 	 statement, 	
which 	 ar e 	 publicly 	 available. 	 Consequently , 	 under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 FRS 	 1, 	 ‘Cash 	 Flow 	 Statements’, 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 not 	 pr epar ed 	 a 	 cash 	 flow 	 statement.
shaRe options 
The	Company’ s	trading	subsidiary ,	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	issues	shar e	options	to	employees	in	that	Company ,	which	ar e	equity	settled	in	
shar es	of	H&T	Gr oup	plc.	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	determines	the	fair	value	of	the	options	granted	measur ed	at	the	date	of	grant	by	use	of	a	
Black-Scholes model or a Stochastic model depending on the vesting conditions attached to each scheme. This fair value cost of equity-settled 
awar ds	is	r ecognised	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	vesting	period	in	the	financial	statements	of	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited,	based	on	the	
estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. 
The	Company	r eceives	a	payment	each	period,	equal	to	the	annual	expense	r ecor ded	in	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	calculated	on	the	basis	
described above. This amount is credited to the profit and loss account each period and is treated in a similar manner to a distribution of dividends 
from Group companies. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B. comP any Profit anD loss account
No profit and loss account is presented for the parent company pursuant to section 408 of Companies Act 2006.
The Company made a loss after taxation of £176,000 in 2014 (2013: profit of £19,838,000). The key movement in 2014 relates to dividend income 
of	£20,000,000	r eceived	in	2013	fr om	H&T	Finance	Ltd.
The	auditors’	r emuneration	for	the	curr ent	and	pr eceding	financial	years	is	bor ne	by	a	subsidiary	undertaking,	Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited.	Note	8	
to the Group financial statements discloses the amount paid in respect of the Company.
The directors did not receive any emoluments for their services to the Company (2013: £nil). Other than the directors, the Company has no 
employees in either financial year.
c. investments
  total
  £’000
Cost 
At	1	January	2014		 	 1,129
Additions  246
At 31 December 2014  1,375
 
W ithin	the	cost	at	1	January	2014	includes	cost	of	shar es	in	subsidiary	undertakings	of	£1.
Additions	in	the	year	r epr esent	capital	contributions	in	r elation	to	shar e	options	issued	to	employees.	Please	r efer	to	note	28	on	page	61.
The investments in Group companies which are all included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
  Proportion of ordinary
 country of shares held: 
name of company incorporation Directly: indirectly: Principal activity
H&T	Finance	Limited	 Gr eat	Britain	 100%	 —	 Management	of	finance
    
Harvey	&	Thompson	Limited	 Gr eat	Britain	 —	 100%	 Pawnbr oking,	jewellery	sales,	Gold
	 	 	 	 Pur chasing,	unsecur ed	lending,	Cheque		 	
    Cashing and related services
The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiary undertakings. H&T Group plc is also incorporated in Great Britain.
D. DeBtors
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 61,565 61,565
Pr epayments	and	accrued	income	 22 24
 61,587 61,589
e. creDitors: amounts falling Due within one year
 2014  2013
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 16,121 14,212
Accruals and deferred income 185 154
 16,306 14,366
  
f. share caPital
Please	r efer	to	the	Gr oup	financial	statements	of	H&T	Gr oup	plc	for	details	of	shar e	capital	including	shar es	issued	in	the	year	(note	27),	 
and dividends paid and proposed (notes 14 and 33). H&T GROUP PLC
72
store Directory acton
158 High Street, W3 6QZ
Tel: 020 8993 2586
ayr
114	High	Str eet,	KA7	1PQ	
Tel: 01292 619 867 
Barking 
27 East Street, IG11 8ER 
Tel: 020 8594 6100 
BasilDon 
1a	Market	Pavement,	SS14	1DD	
Tel: 01268 281 223 
BeDminster
84 East Street, Bedminster, Bristol,  
BS3 4EY 
Tel: 01179 666 321
Bexleyheath
109	The	Br oadway	Centr e,	DA6	7JH
Tel: 020 8303 9403
BirkenheaD 
The Grange Shopping Centre 
26	Bor ough	Pavement,	CH41	2XX	
Tel: 0151 647 5053 
Birmingham
102 Bull Street, B4 7AA
Tel: 0121 236 3082
Birmingham
10 Ethel Street, B2 4BG
Tel: 0121 632 5166
BlackBurn
Unit 2, 3 Ainsworth Street, BB1 6AS 
Tel: 01254 260 040
BlackPool
97-99 Central Drive, FY1 5EE
Tel: 01253 622 039 
Bolton
13	Newport	Str eet,	BL1	1NE
Tel: 01204 385 530 
Bootle
Unit 115, Strand Shopping Centre, 
L20	4SU
Tel: 0151 933 7438 
Bootle 
156	Parkside
Strand Shopping Centre
L20	4XX
Tel: 0151 922 0978
Bow
575	Roman	Road,	E3	5EL
Tel: 020 8983 9553 
 
BraDforD
26	James	Str eet,	BD1	3PZ
Tel: 01274 390 675
  
Breck roaD
305-307 Breck Road
Liverpool
L5	6PU
Tel: 0151 263 4699
Brighton
4 Castle Square, BN1 1EG
Tel: 01273 326 061
 
Brixton
Ar ch	9,	Atlantic	Road,	SW9	8HX
Tel: 020 7733 8457
Bromley 
78 High Street, BR1 1EY 
Tel: 020 8460 2986 
Burnt oak
75	Bur nt	Oak	Br oadway ,	HA8	5EP
Tel: 020 8952 2523
camBerwell
72 Denmark Hill, SE5 8RZ 
Tel: 020 7738 7927
catforD
58	Rushey	Gr een,	SE6	4JD
Tel: 020 8690 3549 
chalk f arm
36	Chalk	Farm	Road,	NW1	8AJ
Tel: 020 7485 2668
chatham
321 High Street, ME4 4BN
Tel: 01634 811 811
cheetham hill
Unit 5 Cheetham Hill Shopping Centre,  
M8	5EL
Tel: 0161 740 6556
chelmsforD
25	High	Chelmer ,	CM1	1XR
Tel: 01245 259 004
claPham
9 Northcote Road, SW11 1NG
Tel: 020 7228 3807
claPton
157 Clapton Common, E5 9AE
Tel: 020 8809 1488
clyDeBank
25 Sylvania Way South, G81 1EA
Tel: 0141 952 6396 
colchester
10	Short	Wyr e	Str eet,	CO1	1LN
Tel: 01206 765 433
corBy
19 Corporation Street, NN17 1NG
Tel: 01536 402 886
cosham
32	High	Str eet,	PO6	3BZ
Tel: 02392 389 940
county roaD
66 County Road, Walton,
Liverpool,	L4	3QL
Tel: 0151 523 0085
coventry
10	Hales	Str eet,	CV1	1JD
Tel: 02476 256 220
coventry
Unit	1,	Shelton	Squar e,	CV1	1DG
Tel: 02476 223 623
crawley
11	Br oadwalk,	Northgate,	RH10	1HJ
Tel: 01293 618 270
crewe 
21	V ictoria	Str eet,	CW1	2HF
Tel: 01270 254 888
croyDon east
16	George	Str eet,	CR0	1P A
Tel: 020 8680 1470
croyDon west
12	London	Road,	CR0	2T A
Tel: 020 8680 4738
croyDon whitgift
Unit 145A Whitgift Centre, CR0 1UT
Tel: 020 8680 4443
Dagenham
299 Heathway, RM9 5AQ
Tel: 020 8592 8848
Dalston
52	Kingsland	High	St.,	E8	2JP
Tel: 020 7254 1788
Darlington
23	Skinnergate,	DL3	7NW
Tel: 01325 361 781
DartforD
Unit 33, The Orchards Shopping Centre, 
DA1 1DN
Tel: 01322 224 918
DePtforD
72 Deptford High Street, SE8 4RT
Tel: 020 8692 3092
DePtforD
60 Deptford High Street, SE8 4RT
Tel: 020 8469 4204 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
73
DerBy
33	V ictoria	Str eet,	DE1	1ES
Tel: 01332 291 623
Doncaster
23 High Street, DN1 1DW
Tel: 01302 812 099
Downham
438	Br omley	Road,	BR1	4PP
Tel: 020 8697 6212
DuDley
215 Wolverhampton St., DY1 1EF
Tel: 01384 238 577
Duke street 
487	Duke	Str eet,	Glasgow ,	G31	1DL	
Tel: 0141 554 9332
DunDee
116 Seagate, DD1 2ET
Tel: 01382 205 213
Durham
69 North Road, DH1 4SQ 
Tel: 0191 374 1813
east ham
47 High Street North, E6 1HS
Tel: 020 8586 6775
east kilBriDe
10	Princes	Mall,	G74	1LB
Tel: 01355 232 520
easterhouse
Unit 19, Shandwick Square Shopping Centre 
Bogbain Rd, G34 9DT
Tel: 0141 771 8796
eastleigh
43-45 Market Street, SO50 5RF
Tel: 02380 615 552
eDinBurgh
106	Lauriston	Place,	EH3	9HX
Tel: 0131 229 4448
eDinBurgh
78a Nicolson Street, EH8 9EW
Tel: 0131 667 2022
eDmonton
16 South Mall, Edmonton Green Shopping 
Centre, N9 0TN
Tel: 020 8807 8302
elePhant anD castle
212 E&C Shopping Centre, SE1 6TE
Tel: 020 7252 4602
ellesmere Port
43	Marina	Drive,	Port	Ar cades	Shopping	
Centre, CH65 0AN
Tel: 0151 357 3176
eltham
89 Eltham High Street, SE9 1TD
Tel: 020 8850 6963
f areham
119a	W est	Str eet,	PO16	0DY
Tel: 01329 288 838
finsBury 
259-261 Seven Sisters Road, N4 2DD 
Tel: 020 7272 9249
fore street
169-171 Fore Street, Edmonton,
N18	2XB
Tel: 020 8887 8910
forest gate
29 Woodgrange Road, E7 8BA 
Tel: 020 8555 5120
fulham
224 Northend Road, W14 9NU
Tel: 020 7385 3188
gatesheaD
Unit	5,	Jackson	Str eet,	NE8	1EE
Tel: 0191 478 4107
gillingham
169 High Street, ME7 1AQ
Tel: 01634 855 053
glasgow
9-11 Bath Street, G2 1HY
Tel: 0141 332 5637
govan
595 Govan Road, G51 2AS
Tel: 0141 445 1567
gravesenD
21 King Street, DA12 2EB
Tel: 01474 363 611
great BriDge 
51 Great Bridge, DY4 7HF
Tel: 0121 557 1413
great western
156 Great Western Road, G4 9AE
Tel: 0141 332 0878
green street
342	Gr een	Str eet,	Upton	Park,	London,	
E13	9AP		
Tel: 020 8471 1335
greenock 
Unit 3 Hamilton Gate,
Oakmall	Shopping	Centr e,	P A15	1JW
Tel: 01475 726 616
grimsBy
6	V ictoria	Str eet,	DN31	1DP
Tel: 01472 355 489
hackney
384 Mare Street, E8 1HR
Tel: 020 8533 5663
hammersmith
134 King Street, W6 0QU
Tel: 020 8563 8585
harlesDen 
72	High	Str eet,	NW10	4SJ	
Tel: 020 8838 5122
harlow
23	Br oad	W alk,	CM20	1JF	
Tel: 01279 417 128
harrow
324b	Station	Road,	HA1	2DX
Tel: 020 8861 1534
harrow
14	St	Anns	Road,	HA1	1LG	
Tel: 020 8863 0069
hastings
18 Queens Road, Hastings, TN34 1QY
Tel: 01424 430 190
hayes
46 Station Road, UB3 4DD
Tel: 020 8589 0805
holloway 
9	Seven	Sisters	Road,	N7	6AJ	
Tel: 020 7281 8559
hounslow
30 High Street, TW3 1NW
Tel: 020 8570 4626
hounslow
253 High Street, TW3 1EA   
Tel: 020 8577 0084
hull
37	Pr ospect	Centr e,	HU2	8PP
Tel: 01482 228 946
hyDe
Unit 5, The Mall, Clarendon Square Shopping 
Centre, SK14 2QT
Tel: 0161 351 7812
ilforD
91-93	Cranbr ook	Road,	IG1	4PG
Tel: 020 8514 3334
ilforD
211	High	Road,	IG1	1LX
Tel: 020 8514 6372
irvine
1/3	Bridgegate,	KA12	8BJ
Tel: 01294 273 823  H&T GROUP PLC
74
store Directory continued kilBurn
139 Kilburn High Road, NW6 7HR
Tel: 020 7624 3367 
kilmarnock
25	King	Str eet,	KA1	1PT
Tel: 01563 527 748
kingston uPon thames
26 Castle Street, KT1 1SS
Tel: 020 8546 8365
kirkBy
Unit	11b,	St	Chads	W ay ,	Kirkby ,	L32	8RD
Tel: 0151 546 6622
kirkcalDy
85	High	Str eet,	Kirkcaldy ,	Fife,	KY1	1LN
Tel: 01592 262 554
knightswooD 
746 Anniesland Road, Glasgow, G14 0YU
Tel: 0141 959 3694
leeDs
8	New	Market	Str eet,	LS1	6DG
Tel: 01132 449 352
leicester
69	Market	Place,	LE1	5EL
Tel: 0116 262 4566
leigh
53 Bradshawgate, WN7 4NB
Tel: 01942 673 012
leith
Unit 6, Newkirkgate Shopping Centre,
EH6 6AA
Tel: 0131 555 3298
lewisham
121	Lewisham	High	Str eet,	SE13	6A T
Tel: 020 8852 9961
leyton
281 High Road, E10 5QN
Tel: 020 8539 8332
liverPool 
Unit	6,	42-46	Whitechapel,	L1	6DZ
Tel: 0151 709 2151
livingston
Unit 22, Almondvale Shopping Centre, 
EH54 6HR
Tel: 01506 431 779
luton
174	The	Ar ndale	Centr e,	LU1	2TL
Tel: 01582 486 711
macclesfielD
23	Chestergate,	SK11	6BX
Tel: 01625 430 699
margate 
72 High Street, Margate, CT9 1DT 
Tel: 01843 292 189
miDDlesBrough
45 Dundas Street, TS1 1HR
Tel: 01642 223 849
new aDDington 
14	Central	Parade,	CR0	0JB
Tel: 01689 847 388
newcastle
117 Grainger Street, NE1 5AE 
Tel: 0191 232 1924
newcastle
16 Newgate Shopping Centre, NE1 5RB 
Tel: 0191 232 6908
northamPton
Unit 3, 71B Abington Street, NN1 2BH 
Tel: 01604 239 085
nottingham
22-24	Upper	Parliament	Str eet,	NG1	2AD
Tel: 0115 947 6560
olDham 
Unit 34, Town Square Shopping Centre, 
T own	Centr e,	OL1	1HD
Tel: 0161 627 5904
olDham
Unit 24, Town Square, 
Spindles	Shopping	Centr e,	OL1	1XF
Tel: 0161 628 9303
orPington
221 High Street, BR6 0NZ
Tel: 01689 870 280
PaDDington
63	Praed	Str eet,	W2	1NS	
Tel: 020 7723 5736
Partick
333	Dumbarton	Road,	G11	6AL
Tel: 0141 334 1258
Peckham
51 High Street, SE15 5EB
Tel: 020 7703 4547
Penge 
136 High Street, SE20 7EU 
Tel: 020 8676 8220
PeterBorough
1	W estgate,	PE1	1PX
Tel: 01733 310 794
PoPlar
22 Market Way, E14 6AH
Tel: 020 7987 1596
Portsmouth
186	Kingston	Road,	PO2	7LP
Tel: 02393 691 751
Preston
11	Friargate,	PR1	2AU
Tel: 01772 563 495
reaDing
31 Oxford Road, Broad Street Mall, 
RG1 7QG
Tel: 0118 959 9946
rochDale
92	Y orkshir e	Str eet,	OL16	1JX
Tel: 01706 525 709
romforD
Unit	30,	Liberty	2,	Mer cury	Gar dens
RM1 3EE
Tel: 01708 755 420
rotherham
2	Effingham	Str eet,	S65	1AJ
Tel: 01709 363 686
rugBy
1	Chur ch	Str eet,	CV21	3PH
Tel: 01788 577 110
runcorn
Unit	119,	Halton	Lea	Shopping	Centr e,
W A7	2BX
Tel: 01928 796 318 
rutherglen
Unit 3, Mitchell Arcade,
Rutherglen	Shopping	Centr e,	G73	2LS
Tel: 0141 647 6040 
salforD
70 Fitzgerald Way, Salford Shopping Centre, 
M6 5HW
Tel: 0161 745 7949  
scunthorPe
114 High Street, DN15 6HB
Tel: 01724 843 817
sheffielD
The	Kiosk,	1-13	Angel	Str eet,	S3	8LN
Tel: 0114 276 9281
shePherDs Bush 
220	Uxbridge	Road,	W12	7JD	
Tel: 020 8811 2665 
siDcuP
76 High Street, DA14 6DS
Tel: 020 8300 6242 
slough
64	High	Str eet,	SL1	1EL
Tel: 01753 693 303 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
75
soho roaD
224	Soho	Road,	Birmingham,	B21	9LR
Tel: 0121 507 0185
southall
1A	The	Br oadway ,	UB1	1JR
Tel: 020 8843 4920
southall
10 King Street, UB2 4DA
Tel: 020 8843 9027
 
southamPton
113a East Street, SO14 3HD
Tel: 02380 639 945
southamPton
Unit 19, Marlands Shopping Centre,
SO14	7SJ
Tel: 02380 225 336 
southenD-on-sea 
95	Southchur ch	Road,	SS1	2NL	
Tel: 01702 469 977
sPringBurn
Unit 13, Springburn Shopping Centre,
Springburn Way, G21 1TS
Tel: 0141 558 7569
st. helens 
4 Ormskirk Street, WA10 1BH
Tel: 01744 610 331
stevenage
24 Westgate Centre, SG1 1QR
Tel: 01438 365 153
stirling
33-35	Murray	Place,	FK8	1DQ
Tel: 01786 478 945
 
stockPort
109	Princes	Str eet,	SK1	1R W
Tel: 0161 476 5860
stockton
107-108 High Street, TS18 1BB
Tel: 01642 616 005 
stoke newington 
123	Stoke	Newington	High	Str eet,	N16	0PH
Tel: 020 7923 9233
stoke on trent
49-51 Stafford Street, ST1 1SA
Tel: 01782 268 144 
stratforD 
Unit 27, The Mall, Stratford Centre, 
E15	1XD	
Tel: 020 8519 7770 
streatham
254 Streatham High Rd, SW16 1HT
Tel: 020 8677 4508 
stretforD
Unit 44, Ground Floor Brody Street Mall, 
Streford Mall Shopping Centre, M32 9BB 
Tel: 0161 865 4930
sunDerlanD
26	Blandfor d	Str eet,	SR1	3JH
Tel: 0191 565 0008 
surrey quays
196	Lower	Road,	SE16	2UN
Tel: 020 7231 6177 
sutton
232 High Street, SM1 1NT
Tel: 020 8643 9994
sutton in ashfielD
Unit 44, Idlewells Shopping Centre,
NG17	1BJ
Tel: 01623 559 596
swinDon
46	Bridge	Str eet,	SN1	1BL
Tel: 01793 491 731
 
syDenham 
37	Sydenham	Road,	SE26	5EX	
Tel: 020 8778 4964 
tooting
63	Mitcham	Road,	SW17	9PB	
Tel: 020 8672 5127 
tooting Junction
20-22	London	Road,	SW17	9HW
Tel: 020 8640 7575
tottenham
518	High	Road,	N17	9SX
Tel: 020 8808 0600
tueBrook
549	W est	Derby	Road,	L13	8AD	
Tel: 0151 228 9298
uxBriDge
Unit	11	Chequers	Squar e,	The	Mall,	UB8	1LN
Tel: 01895 230 503
wallsenD
28	High	Str eet	East,	NE28	8PQ
Tel: 0191 234 5769 
walsall
8	The	Bridge,	WS1	1LR
Tel: 01922 638 501 
walthamstow 
234	High	Str eet,	E17	7JH
Tel: 020 8521 8156
walton v ale
27	W alton	V ale,	Liverpool,	L9	4RE
Tel: 0151 525 5182
walworth
389 Walworth Road, SE17 2AW
Tel: 020 7703 2946
walworth
241	W alworth	Road,	SE17	1RL
Tel: 020 7277 4809
waterloo
111	Lower	Marsh,	SE1	7AE
Tel: 020 7928 0382
watforD
114 High Street, WD17 2GW
Tel: 01923 247 740
welling
3	Bellegr ove	Road,	DA16	3P A
Tel: 020 8303 3645
wemBley
544 High Road, HA0 2AA
Tel: 020 8795 5811
west Bromwich
64 Kings Square (High Street), 
Sandwell Centre, B70 7NW
Tel: 0121 553 2728
west ealing
102 The Broadway, W13 0SY
Tel: 020 8567 2016
wigan
21 Hope Street, Galleries Shopping Centre, 
WN1 1QF 
Tel: 01942 237 518
willesDen
70	High	Road,	NW10	2PU
Tel: 020 8459 3527
wolverhamPton
10a	Cleveland	Str eet,	WV1	3HH
Tel: 01902 425 648
wolverhamPton 
15-16	Queen	Str eet,	WV1	3JW	
Tel: 01902 424 908
wooD green
12 Cheapside, N22 6HH
Tel: 020 8889 9484
woolwich
4	Powis	Str eet,	SE18	6LF
Tel: 020 8317 9265
worcester Park 
148 Central Road, KT4 8HH 
Tel: 020 8337 7307
worksoP
27-29 Bridge Street, S80 1DA
Tel: 01909 488 584 
wythenshawe
Unit 1D, Hale Top, Civic Centre, M22 5RN
Tel: 0161 498 8431 H&T GROUP PLC
76
notes Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk
Loans from £50 to £1,000 over any term of up to 
two years.
Personal Loans
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand 
jewellery and watches.
Retail
H&T provides a range of simple and accessible 
financial products tailored for a customer base 
who have limited access to, or are excluded from, 
the traditional banking and finance sector.
Pawnbroking loans are secured on an item of value 
with a term of up to six months. 
Pawnbroking
Gold Purchasing is a simple way for customers to 
use their unwanted gold to raise some cash.
Gold Purchasing
Highly competitive rates and with no commission 
charges.
Foreign Exchange
Get cash for cheques in a few minutes, rather than 
banking the cheque.
Cheque Cashing
Raise cash from electronic items such as phones, 
tablets, laptops and game consoles.
Buyback
   EST 1897 - DISCOUNT SECONDHAND JEWELLERY
   H&T PAWNBROKERS
OUR CUSTOMERS
ONLINE                                       STORES                                  APPS H&T Group plc
The UK’s leading pawnbroker
Serving customers’ different needs
H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: 0870 9022 600
www.handtgroup.co.uk
H&T Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
