 The UK’ s leading pawnbroker
Success in
new markets
Annual Report and Accounts 2015    EST 1897 - DISCOUNT SECONDHAND JEWELLERY
   H&T PAWNBROKERS
H&T provides a range of simple and accessible financial products tailored for a 
customer base which has limited access to, or is excluded from, the traditional 
banking and finance sector.
Personal Loans
Loans from £50 to £2,000 over any term of up to two years.
Jewellery Retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand jewellery 
and watches.
Pawnbroking
Pawnbroking loans are secured on an item of value with a
term of up to six months.
Gold Purchasing
Gold Purchasing is a simple way for customers to use their 
unwanted gold to raise some cash.
Foreign Exchange
Highly competitive rates and with no commission charges.
Cheque Cashing
Get cash for cheques in a few minutes, rather than banking 
the cheque.
Buyback
Raise cash from electronic items such as phones, tablets, laptops 
and game consoles. Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  01  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 The business at a glance
06 What is pawnbroking?
07 Our customers
08 Our people
10 Our communities
11 Chief Executive’s review
15 Finance Director’s review
16 Risks and uncertainties
18 Strategic report approval
Directors’ Report
19 Directors, officers and advisers
21 Corporate governance
23 Directors’ report
28 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financial Statements
29  Independent Auditor’s report on the Group  
financial statements to the members of 
H&T Group plc
30  Group statement of comprehensive income
31  Group statement of changes in equity
32  Group balance sheet
33  Group cash flow statement
34  Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
64  Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of H&T Group plc
65 Parent Company balance sheet
66  Parent Company combined reconciliation 
of movements in shareholders’ funds and 
statement of movements on reserves
67  Notes to the Company financial statements
70 Store directory
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
  www.handt.co.uk
Highlights
CONTENTS
GROSS PROFIT
£47.5m
(2014: £45.7m)
EBITDA
£10.7m
(2014: £9.8m)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£6.8m
(2014: £5.5m)
DILUTED EPS
14.86p
(2014: 11.78p)
PROPOSED
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
8p
(2014: 4.8p)
PROPOSED
FINAL DIVIDEND
4.5p
(2014: 2.7p)
* This is the actual percentage of lending in each year which was redeemed or renewed, the 2015 figure is an estimate based 
on recent trend and early performance.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This annual report of H&T Group plc (“H&T”, “the 
Group”, “the Company”) contains some forward-looking 
information and statements that involve known and 
unknown risks and uncertainties, including statements 
about the Group’ s plans, objectives and intentions. The 
information and statements contained herein are stated as 
at the date of this report and there exists the risk that actual 
results and outcomes may differ from the information and 
statements made.
£39.0m 
Up 1.3% (2014: £38.5m)
PLEDGE 
BOOK (£m)
RETAIL 
SALES (£m)
£29.5m 
(2014: £30.9m)
RETAIL
MARGIN (%)
35.0% 
(2014: 34.6%)
189 stores 
(2014: 191 stores)
NUMBER OF 
STORES
83.0% 
(2014: 82.0%)*
REDEMPTION OF ANNUAL 
LENDING (%)
GOLD PURCHASE
MARGIN (%)
15.1% 
(2014: 17.9%)
11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15
77.8
75.3
75.6
82.0
83.0
11 12 13 14 15
39.8
49.2
49.0
34.6
35.0
11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15
SERVICE PERFORMANCE
Growth in Personal Loans with the 
loanbook increasing 35.5% from £3.1m 
to £4.2m
Buyback volume more than doubles from 
£2.9m to £6.0m
FX gross profits increase 75% to £1.4m 
(2014: £0.8m)
During 2015 and 2014 we conducted an 
online customer satisfaction survey where 
customers rate us from 1 to 10 on questions 
grouped in each area, we received 3,996 
responses in 2015 (2014: 4,967) the 
average scores were:
CUSTOMER SURVEY 2015 2014
Knowledge 9.63 9.59
Professionalism 9.67 9.63
Satisfaction 9.60 9.55
191
189
186
160
194
46.6
38.5
39.0
44.1
51.6
24.9
20.0
20.1
30.9
29.5
19.5
31.4
23.3
17.9
15.1
  www.handt.co.uk 02  I
Chairman’ s statement
INTRODUCTION
The UK economy has improved over the past year and we have seen a halt 
in the decline in our pledge book with some worthwhile growth in other 
product lines, notably Foreign Exchange, Personal Loans and Buyback. A 
number of initiatives have been launched which are still in the proving 
period; we will expand and develop those that are successful over coming 
months.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group delivered profit after tax of £5.4m (2014: £4.3m) and diluted 
earnings per share of 14.86 pence (2014: 11.78 pence). Subject to 
shareholder approval a final dividend of 4.5 pence per ordinary share 
(2014: 2.7 pence) will be paid on 3 June 2016 to those shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 6 May 2016. This will bring the full 
year dividend to 8 pence per ordinary share (2014: 4.8 pence).
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet strength while maintaining 
the pawnbroking loanbook has been successful with a net debt reduction 
of 78.4% to £2.1m (31 December 2014: £9.7m).  
REGULATION
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. The 
Group obtained authorisation from the FCA on 11 February 2016 and we 
welcome the higher standards that this change will bring to our sector.
STRATEGY
We continue to develop our products aimed at those customers who need 
a simple and straightforward loan, either secured or unsecured. We are 
introducing a more disciplined approach to the retailing of jewellery, and 
the ways in which we promote our consumer finance products over mobile 
applications.
We have reduced further the debt in the business and at the same 
time increased the potential funding to enable the business to seize the 
opportunities that will be presented by a changing market.
PROSPECTS
Continuing high levels of consumer debt and the pressures on mainstream 
lenders create new opportunities in our market. The technologies that are 
evolving in the retail space will enable us to make better use of our loan 
centre, jewellery centre, and the store network, alongside the continuing 
development of our on-line services.
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders I would like to thank 
everyone at H&T for the hard work and dedication over the last year.  
PETER D MCNAMARA
Chairman
We have seen a year of steady progress against a backdrop of volatile commodity 
prices including gold and difficult trading conditions in the sector. We have a robust 
business that remains resilient and is rigorous in its response to the regulatory 
environment and changing consumer behaviour.  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  03  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
“We continue to develop our products aimed at those 
customers who need a simple and straightforward 
loan, either secured or unsecured.”
  www.handt.co.uk
Diluted EPS
1 4.86p
   (2014: 11.78p)
Proposed Dividend Per Share
8p (2014: 4.8p) 04  I
The business at a glance
As at 31 December 2015, H&T was the largest pawnbroking business in the UK 
by size of pledge book. H&T has existed in some form since the late 1800s and 
over the years has built or acquired some of the oldest and largest pawnbrokers  
in the UK. Indeed the store in Edinburgh has operated from the same building  
for more than 150 years serving the same community.
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on the AIM Market (“AIM”) providing the 
Group with access to new sources of finance and allowing the provision of 
equity-based incentivisation to employees. Since then H&T has continued its 
development by adding new products and services and expanding the store 
network by 120 stores to 189 at 31 December 2015.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and will continue 
to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the development and retention 
of staff and the development of existing and new products together with 
expansion in locations.  
Pawnbroking 
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item of value with a term 
of up to six months. H&T values the item(s) based on weight 
and the precious metal or stones used in its manufacture. The 
customer agrees on a loan amount and enters into a consumer 
credit agreement. The agreement is for a period of six months 
and the customer can redeem the goods at any point during 
this time providing that they repay the original loan amount 
plus any interest due. At the end of the contract, they also have 
the option to extend the loan for a further six months. If the 
customer chooses not to redeem or renew the loan, H&T then 
takes action to dispose of the goods.
Jewellery Retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand jewellery 
and watches sourced from our pledge book, purchased over 
the counter or purchased from suppliers. All H&T’s jewellery 
is professionally cleaned, restored and valued at the Group’s 
refurbishment centre in Kent before being re-distributed for sale 
at stores across the country. All of H&T’s staff are trained to a 
high standard to help customers choose individual pieces to suit 
their requirements.
Personal Loans
Personal Loans are a simple and innovative way for customers to 
obtain an unsecured loan of up to £2,000. They offer complete 
flexibility on the length of loan and regular repayments, 
depending on the personal circumstances of each customer. 
Before issuing a loan we establish the customer’s identity, 
confirm their income and employment and complete an 
affordability assessment. If approved then the customer enters 
into a consumer credit loan agreement and we will collect the 
repayments on the dates agreed with the customer.
Gold Purchasing
Gold purchasing is a simple way for customers to use 
their unwanted gold to raise some cash. The process is 
straightforward with the store assessing the items, agreeing a 
price with the customer and purchasing the goods for cash on 
the spot. Customers can also sell watches and diamonds to H&T 
which sets us apart from other providers in the market.
Cheque Cashing
Cheque cashing is a service that allows customers to get cash for 
their cheques in a few minutes, rather than banking the cheque. 
Most are wage cheques, although other types such as personal, 
lottery, building society and Giro cheques are considered. 
Customers use H&T to speed up the cheque clearance (some 
building societies can take almost two weeks to clear a cheque) 
or to avoid banking the cheque into an overdrawn account. 
Customers are required to provide proof of identity and address 
in order to use the service. Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  05  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Buyback
Increasingly, a younger generation of customers are seeking the 
opportunity to raise cash from electronic items such as phones, 
tablets, laptops and game consoles. To take advantage of this 
new asset class, H&T has developed its Buyback offer. Customers 
can sell their electronic items to H&T for cash and buy the item 
back within 31 days. H&T restrict the types of item purchased to 
current models of the most popular items.
Foreign Exchange
H&T offer a foreign exchange service at highly competitive rates 
and with no commission charges, further establishing one of our 
core strengths of offering great value to the customer. Not only 
does offering this additional service make currency exchange 
easier for our customers, but we’re also broadening our appeal 
to a new audience.
Prepaid Debit Card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for customers to have the 
functionality of a Mastercard without the associated credit, giving them 
the freedom to shop online, over the phone or in store. As there is no loan 
or credit involved the application process is simple and the acceptance 
rate is 100%. Customers leave the store with an ATM only card and the 
personalised Mastercard arrives in the post shortly after. Cash can then be 
loaded to the card at thousands of locations across the UK, including any 
H&T store or Post Office branch.
Western Union
Every year millions of people worldwide trust Western Union to send 
money within minutes to family, friends or colleagues in other countries. 
Since H&T launched Western Union in 2012 it has increased transaction 
numbers to around 10,000 per month and introduced a new customer 
base to H&T.
ONLINE APPS STORES
  www.handt.co.uk 06  I
Pawnbroking is quite simply a loan secured on an item of value (“the pledge”). 
Traditionally pawnbrokers would accept almost anything of value in order to secure 
the loan. The H&T pawnbroking offer is mainly based on jewellery as it is compact, 
high worth and can be valued and if necessary resold relatively easily.
HOW DOES IT WORK?
The customer brings in the item(s) of value to the store and is asked to give 
an indication of how much they want to borrow. This is done in order to 
establish how realistic the customer’s expectation is, as the high margins 
charged by the high street jewellers can give an inflated perception of the 
value of the goods. The store staff then use a combination of their expertise 
and training, together with the point of sale system to determine if there 
is adequate security for the loan. Assuming that there is, the customer and 
H&T then enter into a credit agreement. This is a contract for six months and 
carries interest of 2.0% to 9.99% per month. The rate charged is dependent 
on local competition and the size of the loan.
During the contract the customer can:
•	 	 REDEEM THE PLEDGE. This means they pay H&T the value of the 
loan (whether in full or by part payments), plus the interest accrued to 
date; or
•	 	 RENEW THE PLEDGE. This means they pay H&T the interest only and 
a new loan agreement is issued for a further six months.
Approximately five months after the date of the loan we will write to the 
customer explaining that the contract is almost due and reminding them 
of the final date to redeem. We write again once the contract is expired to 
give the customer another opportunity to redeem or renew their pledge.
If the customer does not redeem or renew then we have to attempt to 
realise the value of the pledge to repay the loan. 
The regulations set out a different treatment for pledges over £75 and 
those £75 and under.
•	 Over 	 £75: 	 These 	 pledges 	 ar e 	 sent 	 to 	 public 	 auction 	 with 	 a 	 r eserve	
price. H&T is entitled to retain no more than the value at auction. Any 
part payments made against the loan or the surplus, if greater than 
the value of part payments, is repaid to the customer.
•	 £75 	 and 	 under: 	 These 	 pledges 	 become 	 the 	 pr operty 	 of 	 H&T	
immediately; the rules relating to the surplus do not apply due to the 
lower value of the items concerned.
Regardless of the outcome H&T does not pursue the customer in the rare 
circumstances when there is a shortfall between the amount due under the 
agreement and the amount recovered when the item is sold. Therefore if the 
customer is unable to redeem there will be no further consequences and their 
credit rating is unaffected.
H&T’s pledge book is almost 
entirely gold and diamond set 
jewellery, as those items are 
relatively easy to value and in the 
event of default they can be sold 
either through the retail window  
or as a commodity.
1
Our staff ask the customer how 
much they would like to borrow and 
perform a visual examination of the 
item. Using the weight and metal 
type we now have a good idea of 
what the item is worth based on our 
general lending guidelines.
2
If we can meet the customer’s 
expectations then the item is 
tested with a range of acids to 
determine the metal type and 
carat, while diamonds are verified 
using electronic testing  
equipment. 
3
The customer details and a full 
description of the item are entered 
to the computer system which 
calculates a range of loan values in 
accordance with Group policy.  
A credit agreement is produced  
and the cash issued to the customer.
4
What is pawnbroking?
AS GOOD AS GOLD
For some, lending money can be a risky business, but not for H&T. The 
loan is secured on gold, precious stones or watches (over 99% of our 
pawnbroking business) and that security is left in our possession for the 
duration of the contract. If the loan forfeits, then the collateral can be 
easily liquidated, in almost all cases fully recovering the amount lent.
VALUATIONS, HOW H&T MANAGE THE PROCESS
A pawnbroker advances money secured on items of value. Therefore it is 
vital that we can determine what those items are worth to ensure adequate 
security, whilst also being able to give the customer what they want. Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  07  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
H&T aim to be the lender of choice for customers with limited access to mainstream 
credit by being consistently fair, always being professional, and building a range of 
products that serve our customer’s changing needs.
AGE PROFILE GENDER SPLIT
PERSONAL SERVICE
Our staff realise that each customer has different needs and use our range 
of products to help them find the right solution. We believe that the face 
to face interaction in store is key to building trust and understanding and 
delivering genuine, high quality service.  
USE OF FUNDS
An H&T loan or sale of gold will generally be used by our customers to 
fund day-to-day living expenses. Our services are utilised to resolve short-
term cash flow requirements for both business and household expenditure. 
RESPONDING TO FEEDBACK 
As in previous years we have seen an overwhelmingly positive response 
from both new and existing customers around satisfaction. Customer 
feedback is something we take seriously and actively encourage. Results of 
mystery shopper programmes and online surveys are fed directly to stores 
aiding them in a continuous loop of feedback and improvement. This year 
we have achieved a positive customer recommendation result of 94% 
(based on reviewcentre.com data taken in January 2016). 
Our customers
CUSTOMER FEEDBACK
‘All shop staff are friendly and welcoming and serve you 
promptly.’ Edinburgh
‘Staff are always very friendly and even managed to 
remember my name.’ Sutton
‘Friendly and professional, provided an excellent service.’ 
Dudley
‘The assistant was really helpful and friendly. Would 
recommend others to go to the store.’ Eltham
  www.handt.co.uk
Customers rate staff knowledge, accessibility and professionalism highly. 
They praise staff ability to answer questions clearly and quickly as well as 
proactively engage with the customer early on to anticipate their needs. 
  18-24 7%
  25-35 25%
  36-44 23%
  45-55 26%
  56+ 19%
PAWNBROKING
  18-24 6%
  25-35 34%
  36-44 23%
  45-55 25%
  56+ 12%
PERSONAL
LOANS
  18-24 17%
  25-35 39%
  36-44 23%
  45-55 15%
  56+ 6%
BUYBACK
  Male 57%
  Female 43%
PERSONAL
LOANS
  Male 41%
  Female 59%
PAWNBROKING
  Male 63%
  Female 37%
BUYBACK 08  I
We are firm believers at H&T that our employees are our 
single greatest asset, and accordingly we strive to ensure 
our workforce constantly feel appreciated and valued. 
Our people
H&T’S COMMITMENT TO DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE 
We continually advance and assist our staff to realise their potential. Our 
work with Learning and Development ensures our people are developed to 
support them in their roles. Throughout 2015 we have continued to build on 
this offering, meeting the needs of the business and our people, this includes:
WORKSHOPS 
The Company’s goal is still to provide the best possible technical and 
behavioural training to our people, enabling staff to perform their roles 
with the upmost efficiency. We have a collection of 11 workshops which 
include compulsory training for all staff in compliance, sales and 
negotiation techniques, health and safety protocols, and also the 
identification of diamond stones and high-end watches. In addition to 
these courses we also provide further classroom based training on a need 
driven basis in managerial subjects such as financial and commercial 
awareness, effective management of teams, and recruitment best practice.
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES
In 2015 we ran two separate Management Development Programmes. 
STAR, a 9 month long programme for Store Managers looking to develop 
themselves further; and MDP (Management Development Programme) for 
aspiring Deputy Store Managers looking for preparation to Store Manager.
E-LEARNING 
E-learning continues to be a big part of our H&T Academy blended 
learning approach. The programme offers more than 38 different modules 
that focus more on the theoretical side of our products and knowledge, 
leaving the workshops to tackle the more practical elements. Over the past 
year our e-learning programme has been instrumental in helping the 
Company and staff to meet the requirements of the new FCA regulatory 
regime.
Our workshops begin with the Stair Steps 1-3 programme, which focuses 
on the fundamentals of the business; including a classroom based 
workshop on sales and negotiation techniques, Introduction to Diamonds, 
Introduction to Watches, Buyback and finally Advanced Diamonds.
Stair Steps 4 and 5 offer more managerial and behavioural training and 
which include workshops such as Intro to Management, Managing Your 
Team More Effectively, Introduction to Training and Coaching and Financial 
and Commercial Awareness.
REWARD AND RECOGNITION 
As well as offering competitive salaries, we are proud to offer a generous 
benefits package to our employees. This includes life assurance for all of 
our staff members, an Employee Assistance Programme; enhanced sick 
and holiday pay; an innovation scheme (successful ideas and suggestions 
can earn an employee a reward of up to £1000, depending on the overall 
benefit to our business); health insurance for management; eye care 
vouchers and discounts on bicycles through our cycle to work scheme. All 
of these are offered in addition to monthly, quarterly and annual bonuses 
that can be achieved dependant on hitting performance targets.
11 WORKSHOPS 
training for all staff in compliance,  
sales and negotiation techniques Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  09  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
YOUR VOICE MEETINGS 
Bi-annually, we hold a council-style meeting with a group of employees 
from a variety of positions within the Company , and geographically from 
around the country. These meetings allow our staff a forum in which to 
discuss suggestions and ideas with senior management. We have found 
the meetings to be hugely productive and resourceful, as well as providing 
us with new innovations from within our organisation, it also permits us to 
receive direct feedback on new strategies, or indeed any issues that arise in 
our stores.
NPA AWARDS
H&T is proud to announce that in 2015, we won the 
esteemed “Employer of the Year” Award at the National 
Pawnbroker’s Association (NPA) Awards, demonstrating 
H&T’s passion for developing and supporting its people to 
their full potential.  
CUSTOMER FEEDBACK
‘The assistant understood the 
difficulty of money in this day of 
age and helped me to see the best 
way forward.’ Gillingham
‘I have used the store so many 
times the staff know my name, 
so it is a really nice experience to 
hear them welcome me by my first 
name when I go there.’  
New Addington
  www.handt.co.uk
OUR STAFF TOTAL 1,051
  Male 201
  Female 475
FULL TIME STAFF
TOTAL 676
  Male 54
  Female 321
PART TIME STAFF
TOTAL 375
MANAGERS TENURE
(Years of service)
>3 >5 >10
87%
69%
26%
PROGRESSION AND RECOGNITION
H&T’s retention strategy encourages its people to seek opportunities in the 
Company, across stores and head office in order to enhance their skills. We 
advertise all available positions weekly to every employee in order to help 
them in applying for these positions. 53% of our Deputy Manager and 
Store Manager roles were filled internally in 2015.
69%
of managers have over  
5 years of service
2015 
EMPLOYER OF THE YEAR
Award at the NPA 10  I
It is our continued ambition to support local and national charities and organisations. This 
has continued throughout 2015 with a year filled with events, fun days and fundraising. 
Our communities
We have raised thousands of pounds and collected thousands of gifts for a 
number of organisations, see some examples below:
EASTER EGG COLLECTION
In April, we raised £1,000 and collected 5,000 Easter eggs for local and 
national children’s charities and hospitals.
MACMILLAN PARTNERSHIP
In 2015, we launched our Macmillan partnership and commitment to raise 
enough money to fund a Macmillan nurse for a year. All H&T stores have 
embraced this challenge with a range of activities, including:
•	 The 	 Big 	 Slim: 	 a 	 summer 	 challenge 	 to 	 get 	 fit 	 and 	 raise 	 money 	 r esulted 	 in 	
raising over £6,000 for Macmillan and over 30 stones in weight lost by 
store staff
•	 Macmillan 	 Cof fee 	 Morning: 	 On 	 26 	 September 	 we 	 took 	 part 	 in 	 the 	 W orld’ s	
Biggest Coffee Morning, with tea and cakes in our stores and head office
•	 Thr oughout 	 the 	 year 	 ther e 	 wer e 	 a 	 range 	 of 	 activities 	 in 	 stor es 	 including	
cake, book and plant sales; sporting challenges; raffles; themed fancy 
dress days; and entertainment events.
CHRISTMAS COLLECTIONS
Throughout December all stores ran a Christmas fundraising campaign, 
including collecting a total of 945 gifts for Mission Christmas, a charity which 
helps give children living in poverty a chance to enjoy Christmas. Other stores 
have collected money, food and presents for local children’s charities and 
food banks. Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  11  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Chief Executive’ s review
The solid performance of our core products and the successful 
development of new products demonstrates the ability of the 
business to adapt to the changing market environment.
  www.handt.co.uk
INTRODUCTION
H&T have traded well in a challenging market having stabilised our core 
pawnbroking business whilst also developing our other revenue lines.  
Profit before tax for the year increased to £6.8m (2014: £5.5m), an 
increase of 23.6%, principally as a result of growth in Personal Loans  
and Other Services.
Our store estate of 189 stores comprises 150 H&T Pawnbrokers stores  
and 39 est1897 second hand jewellery retail stores. During the year we 
have closed two underperforming H&T Pawnbrokers stores. In light of  
the current trading environment a small number of stores are expected  
to close during 2016.
The Group’s development of Personal Loans, Buyback and FX supports the 
evolution of our business model to products with higher growth whilst 
also reducing our exposure to fluctuations in the gold price. The Group’s 
online development continues with the implementation of a new mobile 
optimised website, new branding and a simpler customer journey. This 
activity has resulted in an improvement in website traffic and the online 
Personal Loans book in H2 2015.
THE MARKET
The high street alternative credit market is changing. We estimate that 
around one third of outlets operated by the major groups have closed 
since December 2013 as a result of the lower gold price and the higher 
standards required by the FCA.
The average gold price in 2015 was £759 per troy oz (2014: £768), a fall 
of 1.2% although the monthly averages ranged from a high of £825 in 
January 2015 to a low of £712 in December 2015. This reduction during 
the course of the year compressed the margins realised from purchasing 
scrap in particular.
The cost cap on pay day lending was implemented on 2 January 2015 and 
as expected this led to closures among our high street competitors.
The cost cap has also assisted our online development as the fees paid 
to brokers have reduced to a level where we can now acquire leads in a 
more cost effective way. This has helped the development of the online 
Personal Loan book to £0.3m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £0.1m), with 
the growth taking place during H2 2015.
The Group has managed external risks effectively and our financial stability, 
range of products and outstanding service delivery position us to take 
advantage of these changing market conditions. 
  Pawnbroking 59.9%
  Jewellery Retail 21.8%
  Gold Purchasing 4.8%
  Pawnbroking Scrap 0.3%
  Personal Loans 5.0%
  Other Services 8.2%
GROSS PROFIT
BREAKDOWN
Profit Before T ax
£6.8m
 (2014: £5.5m) 12  I
Chief Executive’ s review (continued)
OUR STRATEGY
The Group’s strategy is to serve a customer base whose access to 
mainstream credit is limited and for whom small sum loans can help get 
through short term financial challenges. The Group will continue to deliver 
this strategy by developing a range of lending products, both secured and 
unsecured, offered in-store and online.
The development of a strong retail proposition supports our lending and 
purchasing operations, improves returns and reduces the Groups exposure 
to gold price volatility. The continuing development of the est1897 brand 
could play an important part of this strategy in the future.  
REGULATION
THE FINANCIAL CONDUCT AUTHORITY
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. The 
Group obtained authorisation from the FCA on 11 February 2016 and we 
welcome the higher standards that this change will bring to our sector.
The Group has appointed a head of compliance and established a risk 
committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors to oversee 
the Group’s compliance framework. Our Non-Executive Directors have 
extensive experience with the regulatory requirements of the FCA and its 
predecessors and provide the Group with valuable support and insight into 
the new regime.
HIGH COST SHORT TERM CREDIT INTEREST RATE CAP
On 2 January 2015 the cost cap on the interest rate and charges that apply 
to high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC) came into effect. They are:
•	 	 a 	 maximum 	 charge 	 of 	 0.8% 	 per 	 day 	 on 	 the 	 amount 	 borr owed
•	 	 a 	 maximum 	 of 	 £15 	 fees 	 on 	 default
•	 	 a 	 cap 	 on 	 the 	 total 	 costs 	 incurr ed 	 over 	 the 	 li fe 	 of 	 the 	 loan 	 of 	 100% 	 of	
the amount borrowed
The definition of HCSTC is broad but provides a specific exemption for 
pawnbroking and certain other credit products at present.
The Group is well positioned for the new regulatory environment both in 
terms of our detailed preparation and the range of products we offer.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
The Group’s total gross profits increased to £47.5m (2014: £45.7m) 
principally as a result of the improvements in the Pawnbroking Scrap, 
Personal Loans and Other Services segments.
The development in Personal Loans and Other Services is encouraging as 
we establish these high growth products in the store estate, collectively 
generating an additional £1.8m of gross profits in the year.
PAWNBROKING
The pledge book has increased 1.3% to £39.0m (2014: £38.5m). During 
the year the Group has focussed on enabling our staff to make sound 
lending decisions to maximise the potential in the market whilst managing 
financial risk.
The Group’s Pawn Service Charge was unchanged at £28.4m (2014: 
£28.4m) and now represents 59.9% of Group gross profit (2014: 62.1%). 
 
The yield on the pledge book has improved to 73.4% (2014: 68.8%) as a 
result of the improvements in redemption delivered over recent years. The 
average monthly redemption of loans issued in 2012 was 75.6%, this has 
increased to 82.0% for loans issued in 2014 as a result of our high quality 
lending decisions, customer communication and, where appropriate, 
assisting customers into repayment plans for pawnbroking loans. The early 
redemption performance of loans issued in 2015 leads us to expect further 
improvements during the course of the year.
Total lending in 2015 increased 3.9% to £98.2m (2014: £94.5m), the 
average lending rate per gram being in line with 2014.
The Group implemented a number of initiatives during the year to support 
the pawnbroking proposition:
Gross Profit
£47.5m
 (2014: £45.7m)
Pledge Book
£39.0m
 (2014: £38.5m) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  13  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
  www.handt.co.uk
1)  Continued development of “Expert Eye”, a system which enables high 
definition magnified images to be sent from a store to our centre of 
excellence at the jewellery centre where the images are assessed and 
with telephone support the store is able to make a better loan decision
2)  Relaunch of the online pawnbroking system to simplify the customer 
journey via the “We lend on anything” valuation portal and interaction 
with the “Expert Eye” valuation service
3)  The development of the website to deliver a mobile optimised 
application process
The Group remains focussed on pawnbroking as the largest contributor to 
gross profits. Our continued delivery of excellent customer service and high 
quality lending decisions on a wide range of assets positions us well in this 
evolving market.
PAWNBROKING SCRAP
Pawnbroking Scrap produced a profit in the year of £0.1m (2014: £0.2m loss).
This result was expected given the relative stability in average gold prices 
between 2014 and 2015. We would not expect margins on pawnbroking 
scrap to return to historical levels as we seek to maintain a competitive 
proposition on lending and support the pledge book.
RETAIL
Retail sales decreased 4.5% to £29.5m (2014: £30.9m) and gross profit 
decreased 3.7% to £10.3m (2014: £10.7m). On a like for like basis direct 
margin from retail improved 1.3% with the growth coming from the 
est1897 retail focussed stores. Retail sales are stated net of margin scheme 
VAT payable, the cost of which increased in the year by an estimated 
£0.7m principally as a result of reduction in retail stocks.
The Group considers a successful retail offering to be a core part of our 
Group proposition. Pawnbroking and Gold Purchasing generate significant 
amounts of saleable jewellery which must be sold. While higher historic 
gold prices provided a reasonable return from scrapping gold, this 
disposition route is not suitable for gemset items or watches. The ability to 
sell items rather than scrap them also provides a higher return and reduces 
the Group’s exposure to short term gold price volatility.
The three standalone Discount Secondhand Jewellery stores have provided 
a useful forum to test and develop new inventory lines and display 
techniques although they have yet to provide a meaningful contribution. 
The 36 rebranded Discount Secondhand Jewellery stores have 
outperformed the core estate, delivering growth in direct retail margin of 
5.8% year on year. The Group has completed a number of trials during the 
year to ascertain the correct balance between lending and retail activities in 
these stores and we expect further improvement in the future.
GOLD PURCHASING
During the year the average gold price fell from a high of £825 in January 
2015 to a low of £712 in December 2015, the average for the year was 
£759 (2014: £768), a fall of 1.2%. This reduction during the course of the 
year reduces the margin realised from purchasing scrap and is the principal 
reason for the reduction in gross profits from purchasing to £2.3m (2014: 
£2.4m), a fall of 4.2%.
Following several years of decline the market for gold purchasing is now 
finding a new level. This stabilisation has allowed a focus on improving 
margins during H2 2015 which, while improving gross profits, has in turn 
resulted in a reduction in volumes during H2 2015. We estimate that the 
weight of fine gold purchased has reduced approximately 7.1% between 
2014 and 2015.
END OF PERIOD STERLING GOLD PRICE  
(£ per troy oz)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
727.2
985.1
1,019.7
773.0
719.0
2010
897.7
2009
673.4
Gross profits increased
33.3%
PERSONAL LOANS 14  I
Chief Executive’ s review (continued)
PERSONAL LOANS
Personal Loans gross profits increased 33.3% to £2.4m (2014: £1.8m);  
the loanbook net of provisions at 31 December 2015 was £4.2m  
(31 December 2014: £3.1m), an increase of 35.5%. The yield on the 
average monthly loanbook was 68.0% (2014: 69.5%), the slight  
reduction caused by the growth in the new customer numbers and 
development of the online product.
The Group considers the development of the Personal Loan product 
in-store and online to be a significant opportunity. H&T’s personal loan 
product allows for loans of up to £2,000 over any term of up to two 
years based on affordability. Approximately 80% of the loans issued by 
the Group fell under the definition of high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC) 
during 2015 and as such must comply with additional rules under the new 
FCA regulatory regime.
The Group has positioned the product to be cheaper and more flexible 
than most comparable loans in the market and has applied robust 
affordability assessments including a manual review of each loan 
application. The Group intends to reduce the proportion of HCSTC loans 
over time as we develop lower cost, longer term loans for our customers.
We expect the in-store focus, new website, improved search engine 
optimisation, digital marketing and our presence on price comparison 
websites to increase volumes during 2016.
OTHER SERVICES
The Other Services segment has increased 44.4% to £3.9m (2014: £2.7m) 
principally as a result of the improvements in the recently introduced FX 
and Buyback products.
Buyback has been a particular success as part of the “We buy anything” 
proposition as the value purchased increased from £2.9m in 2014 to 
£6.0m in 2015. This improvement was achieved through simplification 
of the in-store valuation process using a new computer system and a 
measured extension to the assets accepted.
FX also continues to grow with gross profits increasing by 75.0% from 
£0.8m to £1.4m as the product becomes more established in the business.
Our continued investment in systems, training and store level point of sale 
materials will provide further growth as we establish these rapidly growing 
products in the business.
PROSPECTS
The demand for small sum, short term cash loans remains strong and by 
increasing the range of assets it accepts, by expanding Personal Loans 
and Other Services both in-store and online we are ideally positioned to 
capitalise on this changing marketplace.
Our continued investment in stores, people and systems has provided 
a strong platform to support growth. Current trading is in line with 
management’s expectations for 2016.
I would also like to add my great thanks to those of the Chairman, in 
recognising all our people whose skills, commitment and enthusiasm 
continue to drive our success, and who give us confidence in the future. 
 
JOHN G NICHOLS
Chief Executive
STORE DEVELOPMENT
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Acquired
New Stores
Closed
—
17
—
1
12
—
1
24
—
6
22
(2)
3
5
—
1
4
(8)
—
—
(2)
Estate Total 122 135 160 186 194 191 189
Value purchased increased to
£6.0m
 (2014: £2.9m)
BUYBACK Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  15  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Finance Director’ s review
H&T’s continued investment in our people, stores and systems have provided  
a platform for growth in this rapidly evolving market.
  www.handt.co.uk
FINANCIAL RESULTS
For the year ended 31 December 2015 gross profit increased 3.9% from 
£45.7m to £47.5m driven by the growth in the Personal Loans and Other 
Services segments.
Total direct and administrative expenses increased by 1.0% from £39.5m 
to £39.9m principally as a result of investment in staff to support business 
volumes and new initiatives. The Board considers the continued investment 
in people and systems to be vital in repositioning the business to take 
advantage of the current market conditions.
Finance costs were in line at £0.7m (2014: £0.7m).
Profit before tax increased by £1.3m to £6.8m, up 23.6% from £5.5m  
in 2014.
CASH FLOW
The Group generated positive cash flow from operating activities of 
£11.2m (2014: £14.4m). Working capital movements produced an inflow 
of £2.2m (2014: £6.2m) in the year with the £4.5m reduction in inventory 
being partially offset by the £1.4m growth in the pawnbroking and 
personal loans loanbooks.
BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2015 the Group had net assets of £94.1m (2014: 
£90.9m) with period end net debt of £2.1m (2014: £9.7m) delivering a 
reduction in gearing to 2.2% (2014: 10.6%) (see note 26). 
On 12 February 2016 the Group refinanced the existing facility with  
Lloyds Bank plc allowing for maximum borrowings of £30.0m, subject  
to covenants, at a margin of between 1.75% and 2.75% above LIBOR.  
At year end £13.0m was drawn on the facility and the Group was well 
within the covenants with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.20x and interest 
to EBITDA ratio of 20.4x. The new facility has a termination date of  
30 April 2020.
The combination of low gearing and a secure long term credit facility 
provides the Group with the ability to make selective investments in the 
future while maintaining appropriate headroom.
INVESTMENTS 
During the year the Group completed the acquisition of three pawnbroking 
loan books for a total consideration of £0.1m.
IMPAIRMENT
The reduced gold price has impacted the earnings of the Group and of the 
stores that have been acquired historically. The Group performs an annual 
review of the expected earnings of each acquired store and considers 
whether the associated goodwill and other property, plant and equipment 
are impaired. There was no requirement for impairment during 2015 
(2014: £99k).
SHARE PRICE AND EPS
At 31 December 2015 the share price was 197.0p (2014: 160.0p) and 
market capitalisation was £72.6m (2014: £59.0m). Basic earnings per share 
was 14.88p (2014: 11.78p), diluted earnings per share was 14.86p (2014: 
11.78p) and diluted net assets per share equated to 260p (2014: 247p).
 
The Group’s market capitalisation remained below net asset value 
during the year as the continued pressure on earnings depressed market 
confidence. The Board believe that the action taken to stabilise the pledge 
book, drive alternative earning streams, control costs and de-risk the 
balance sheet will build confidence.
STEPHEN A FENERTY
Finance Director 16  I
Risks and uncertainties
The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures that these are appropriately 
managed by the executive management team. 
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk management 
framework, including reviewing its effectiveness. The Board has delegated 
responsibility for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk 
management programme to the Audit Committee. The internal audit 
function provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness 
of the internal control procedures through completion of the annual 
internal audit plan, which takes into account current business risks.
The Group’s risk management framework is embedded in the Group’s 
management and governance processes and is overseen by the Board. 
Risks are identified at both a Board and an operational level, they are 
assessed and, where appropriate, individuals within the business are given 
responsibility for the management of that risk. The Group has in place 
formal processes for the identification of new risks or a change to an 
existing risk. The Risk Committee oversees a formal periodic review of our 
assessment of individual risks, mitigating activities and associated remedial 
actions.
The table opposite sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group and how we mitigate them. This is not an exhaustive analysis 
of all the risks the Group may face as there may be additional risks and 
uncertainties that are not currently known to the Board or have not been 
included in this section on the basis that they are not considered to be 
material.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including 
interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and price risk. The use of financial 
derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board 
of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial 
derivatives to manage these risks. The Group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A summary of the principal financial risks is provided below. Further 
detailed discussion is provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes 
in interest rates. Finance costs have reduced as a result of lower interest 
rates and lower loan balances and at present the Board does not consider 
it necessary to enter into a hedging arrangement. This position is reviewed 
by the Board on a regular basis.
CREDIT RISK
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade 
and other receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its 
trade receivables, the most significant of which are the pledge book, the 
Personal Loan book and Cheque Cashing balances. In all cases, exposure on 
trade and other receivables is spread over a large number of counterparties 
and customers.
The risk attributable to the pledge book is further mitigated due to the 
presence of security (the customer’s pledges) which can be easily liquidated 
in almost all cases fully recovering the amount lent. 
The risks attached to the unsecured Personal Loan book are mitigated 
by the continual monitoring of bad debts and a possible modification 
of lending criteria. The Group performs an external credit check prior to 
lending. Similar procedures mitigate the risks associated with Cheque 
Cashing activities.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for 
doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is 
an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of 
a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is 
considered to be low as funds are held with financial institutions with 
high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies to the 
Group’s bankers as shown below:
MOODY’S CREDIT RATING
Barclays Bank plc 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
A2
A3
A1
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk other than on 
bank balances of £580,917 (2014: £151,000) with Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc, £880,801 with Barclays Bank plc (2014: £3,728,621) and £3,761,106 
(2014: £66,000) with Lloyds Bank plc.  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  17  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
AREA DESCRIPTION OF RISK EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITIES
REGULATORY RISK Loss arising from a breach of existing 
regulation or regulatory changes in the 
markets within which the Group operates. 
•	 Experienced 	 Boar d 	 both 	 in 	 Cr edit 	 and 	 FCA 	 r egulated 	 businesses
•	 Dedicated 	 Internal 	 Audit 	 and 	 Compliance 	 functions
•	 W ell-developed 	 pr ocedur es, 	 training, 	 systems 	 and 	 operational 	 contr ols
•	 Head 	 of 	 Compliance 	 monitors 	 legislative 	 changes 	 and 	 supports	
departmental compliance functions as required
•	 Expert 	 thir d-party 	 legal 	 and 	 / 	 or 	 compliance 	 advice 	 is 	 sought 	 wher e	
necessary
•	 Membership 	 of 	 appr opriate 	 trade 	 associations 	 who 	 assist 	 with 	 both	
regulatory awareness and relationships
GOLD PRICE A significant fall in the gold price impacting the 
security of pledge and the revenues from scrap 
operations.
•	 Ensur e 	 suf ficient 	 headr oom 	 on 	 bank 	 covenants 	 to 	 absorb 	 a 	 r eduction 	 in 	
gold price, should it occur, without covenant breach
•	 Monitoring 	 of 	 gold 	 price 	 at 	 Boar d 	 level
•	 Annual 	 testing 	 of 	 for ecasts 	 sensitised 	 for 	 gold 	 price
•	 Maintenance 	 of 	 appr opriate 	 margin 	 between 	 pledge 	 value 	 and 	 gold	
price
•	 Lending 	 on 	 alternative 	 high 	 value 	 items
•	 Review 	 possible 	 use 	 of 	 hedging 	 instruments
•	 Focus 	 on 	 incr easing 	 r edemption 	 rates 	 to 	 minimise 	 r eliance 	 on 	 disposition
•	 Incr ease 	 r etail 	 sales 	 as 	 a 	 disposition 	 hedge
THEFT AND FRAUD Loss of inventory or pledge. •	 High 	 levels 	 of 	 physical 	 security
•	 Insurance 	 for 	 material 	 losses
•	 Systems 	 and 	 pr ocedur es 	 to 	 minimise 	 risk
Internal theft and fraud. •	 Ensur e 	 staf f 	 ar e 	 highly 	 motivated
•	 A void 	 lone 	 working 	 to 	 r educe 	 opportunity
•	 Internal 	 audit 	 team 	 focused 	 on 	 loss 	 pr evention 	 and 	 other 	 manipulation	
for personal gain
•	 Fair , 	 ethical, 	 compliant 	 and 	 competitive 	 incentive 	 schemes 	 and 	 other	
benefits offered
REPUTATIONAL 
RISK
An event or circumstance could adversely 
impact on the Group ’s reputation, including 
adverse publicity from the activities of 
legislators, pressure groups and the media.
•	 Consider 	 r egulatory 	 and 	 r eputational 	 impact 	 of 	 business 	 changes
•	 Maintain 	 focus 	 on 	 competitive 	 advantage 	 of 	 customer 	 service	
•	 Ensur e 	 staf f 	 ar e 	 highly 	 motivated
•	 Ensur e 	 high 	 level 	 of 	 compliance 	 in 	 pr oduct 	 and 	 service 	 delivery
•	 Ensur e 	 price 	 or 	 short 	 term 	 earnings 	 ar e 	 not 	 the 	 dominant 	 factor 	 in	
decision making
  www.handt.co.uk 18  I
Risks and uncertainties (continued)
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES 
(CONTINUED)
LIqUIDITY RISK
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available 
for ongoing operations and future developments, the Group uses a 
mixture of long-term and short-term debt finance. At 31 December 2015, 
the Group had sufficient headroom on its current borrowings and remains 
in full compliance with all loan covenants.
Furthermore, the Company will review at the appropriate time, the 
possibility of raising future equity finance or refinance existing banking 
facilities to expand activities.
PRICE RISK
With regard to the current balance sheet position, the Group is not 
exposed to price risk, as the majority of its jewellery and all of its scrap gold 
is obtained through unredeemed pledges, which have a cost to the Group 
which is lower than the retail value. The Group is however exposed to 
adverse movements in the price of gold in its gold scrap activities and the 
value of the pledge collaterals. Should the price of gold drop significantly, 
the Group can mitigate that risk by changing its lending policy on 
pawnbroking pledges or by entering hedging instruments. Currently the 
Group has no gold hedge in place, although this is reviewed by the Board 
on a regular basis.
EXCHANGE RATE RISK
While the Group’s activities are wholly conducted in the United Kingdom, 
the Group is impacted by foreign currency exchange rates affecting the 
gold price exchange from USD to GBP and the revaluation of foreign 
currency cash holdings in store.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL
The Strategic Report incorporates the Overview and Key Performance 
Indicators, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the 
Finance Director’s Review and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board
STEPHEN A FENERTY
Company Secretary
2 March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  19  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Directors, officers and advisers
STEPHEN A FENERTY
FINANCE DIRECTOR, 42
Stephen trained with KPMG’s banking 
and finance team and is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales, since then he 
has pursued a variety of management 
roles in the alternative credit sector. 
Stephen joined H&T in March 2005 as 
Commercial Director before taking on 
the role as Finance Director in December 
2013. Stephen has direct responsibility 
for finance, IT, unsecured lending, 
acquisitions, compliance and credit risk.  
JOHN G NICHOLS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, 65
After an early career in the RAF , John 
entered the leisure industry with the 
Rank Organisation where he held several 
senior executive positions. John joined 
H&T as Managing Director in 1997 and 
subsequently became Chief Executive. He 
has been instrumental in developing and 
implementing the business strategy and 
delivering growth in stores, revenues and 
profitability.
PETER D MCNAMARA
CHAIRMAN, 65
Peter spent the majority of his career 
with Lloyds Bank plc, as chief manager 
for strategic planning, mergers and 
acquisitions, and then as the managing 
director of Personal Banking. He 
subsequently served as group managing 
director of the Alliance & Leicester plc and 
Chief Executive of Wesleyan Assurance 
Society, a mutual life insurance business. 
In 2002 he left to become Chairman 
and subsequently executive Chairman of 
Moneybox plc, the leading ATM deployer 
operating in the UK, Germany and the 
Netherlands, which he led to flotation 
on AIM.
In 2006 he set up a new ATM business, 
Notemachine Ltd and is the CEO.
MALCOLM L BERRYMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 61
Malcolm is currently a Non-Executive 
Director at Southern Health NHS 
Foundation Trust and runs his own 
consultancy business primarily involved in 
life and general insurance. Between 1990 
and 2005, he was Chief Executive of two 
Insurers, Liverpool Victoria and Crown 
Financial Management. He qualified as an 
Actuary in 1983.
JAMES F THORNTON
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 58
James Thornton has more than fifteen 
years of experience in UK financial services 
organisations, most recently as a Director 
at Hannam & Partners, from 2009-2015, 
and previously as Head of Finance at BAT 
Industries, Group Deputy Finance Director 
and UK Finance Director at Old Mutual plc 
and Head of Foreign Exchange at IFX plc. 
James has also held senior positions with 
Lord Ashcroft KCMG associated companies 
– Anne Street Partners and Global Health 
Partner plc. James is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants and 
has a MBA from Harvard Business School. 
He is a graduate of Magdalene College, 
Cambridge University where he obtained a 
MA (Hons) in Classics and Law.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
  www.handt.co.uk 20  I
Directors, officers and advisers (continued)
REGISTERED AND HEAD OFFICE 
H&T Group plc
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: +44 (0) 870 9022 600
BROKER AND NOMINATED ADVISER
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
LEGAL ADVISERS TO THE GROUP 
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP
Adelaide House
London Bridge
London 
EC4R 9HA
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Crawley
United Kingdom
BANKERS 
Lloyds Bank plc
25 Gresham St
London
EC2V 7HN
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
2nd Floor, Brunel House
17/27 	 Station 	 Road
Reading
Berkshire
RG1 1LG
REGISTRARS 
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Haggie Partners LLP
4 Sun Court
66 – 67 Cornhill
London
EC3V 3NB
Registered and Head Office and Advisers Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  21  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Corporate governance
The directors recognise the importance of adopting good corporate 
governance practices in the best interests of all shareholders. Although 
the Company is not required to report on compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) since its shares are traded on 
the AIM Market, the Company applies the principles of sound Corporate 
Governance in the following ways:
Directors
the BoarD
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive 
Directors. Their biographies appear on page 19. A review of these shows 
a range of experience and expertise sufficient to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of 
conduct which is vital to the success of the Group. The three Non-Executive 
Directors each hold shares as disclosed on page 23. However, because the 
number of shares held is small, there is no entitlement to share options for 
Non-Executives, and there are no cross directorships between Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Directors are considered to 
be independent. 
BoarD meetings
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of 
the Group. A Directors’ responsibilities statement in respect of the financial 
statements is set out in this Annual Report on page 28. 
The Board meets 10 times during the year. To enable the Board 
to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely 
information. Briefing papers are distributed to all directors in advance of 
the Board meetings. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the 
Board which include the determination of strategy, approval of new stores 
and acquisitions, approval of budget and major capital expenditure. 
At Board meetings, the agenda normally comprises a review of the 
management financial statements, a CEO review of operations, a review 
of new store proposals and potential acquisitions and an update on the 
progress of the Group’s other strategic objectives. 
The Board meetings in August and March cover the approval of the interim 
and preliminary financial results respectively and the November meeting 
deals with the approval of the annual budget.
The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the Group’s 
affairs:
RemuneRation Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 Malcolm 	 L 	 Berryman 	 (Chairman)
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton
The Committee meets at least twice in each year and at such other times 
as the Chairman of the Committee sees fit.
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. The quorum for the 
Committee is two.
The duties of the Committee are to:
•	 determine 	 and 	 agr ee 	 with 	 the 	 Boar d 	 the 	 framework 	 or 	 br oad 	 policy	
for the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and any 
employees that the Board delegates to it;
•	 within 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 agr eed 	 policy, 	 determine 	 individual	
remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments, share 
options, pension arrangements and any other benefits;
•	 determine 	 the 	 contractual 	 terms 	 on 	 termination 	 and 	 individual	
termination payments, ensuring that the duty of the individual to 
mitigate loss is fully recognised;
•	 in 	 determining 	 individual 	 packages 	 and 	 arrangements, 	 give 	 due 	 r egar d	
to the comments and recommendations of the Code;
•	 be 	 told 	 of 	 and 	 be 	 given 	 the 	 chance 	 to 	 advise 	 on 	 any 	 major 	 changes 	 in	
employee benefit structures in the Company;
•	 r ecommend 	 and 	 monitor 	 the 	 level 	 and 	 structur e 	 of 	 r emuneration 	 for	
senior managers below Board level as determined;
•	 agr ee 	 the 	 policy 	 for 	 authorising 	 claims 	 for 	 expenses 	 fr om 	 the 	 Chief	
Executive and from the Chairman of the Board; and
•	 r ecommend 	 an 	 annual 	 r eport 	 for 	 the 	 Boar d 	 to 	 put 	 to 	 Shar eholders 	 on	
executive remuneration compliant with relevant legal and regulatory 
provisions.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
•	 seek 	 any 	 information 	 it 	 r equir es 	 fr om 	 any 	 employee 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 in	
order to perform its duties;
•	 be 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 establishing 	 the 	 selection 	 criteria 	 and 	 then 	 for	
selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any 
remuneration consultants providing advice to the Committee, at the 
Group’s expense; and
•	 obtain, 	 at 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 expense, 	 outside 	 legal 	 or 	 other 	 pr ofessional	
advice where necessary in the course of its activities.
audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton 	 (Chairman)
•	 Malcolm 	 L 	 Berryman	
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara
The Audit Committee reviews each year the arrangements for safeguarding 
auditor objectivity and independence. The Audit Committee reviews the 
scope, results and cost-effectiveness of internal and external audit, and has 
delegated power from the Board to exercise the power from shareholders 
to agree fees for external auditors. The Audit Committee is responsible for 
satisfying itself on the independence and objectivity of external auditors 
and the independence of internal auditors. As directed by the Audit 
Committee, the principal function of the Group’s internal audit team is to 
verify the physical presence and control procedures surrounding the cash, 
pledge 	 and 	 inventory 	 balances 	 within 	 stor es 	 and 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Jewellery	
Centre. The Committee reviews the operation of internal controls and 
reports to the Board on the annual review of the internal control and risk 
management.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors 
of the Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 Malcolm 	 L 	 Berryman 	 (Chairman)
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara	
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton 22  I 22  I
Corporate governance (continued)
The Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing and reporting to the  
Board on:
•	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 risk 	 appetite 	 (the 	 extent 	 and 	 categories 	 of 	 risk 	 which 	 the	
Board regards as acceptable for the Company to bear); 
•	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 risk 	 management 	 and 	 internal 	 contr ols 	 framework 	 (it’ s	
principles, policies, methodologies, systems, processes, procedures  
and people); and
•	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 the 	 pr ocesses 	 and 	 pr ocedur es, 	 the 	 arrangements 	 for 	 the	
identification, assessment, monitoring management and oversight  
of risk. 
The Committee should make recommendations to the Board in respect of 
all risks faced by the Company outside of its declared risk appetite.
nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara 	 (Chairman)
•	 Malcolm 	 L 	 Berryman
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton
The function of the Nomination Committee is to provide a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 
Board. In carrying out its duties, the Nomination Committee is primarily 
responsible for:
•	 identi fying 	 and 	 nominating 	 candidates 	 to 	 fill 	 Boar d 	 vacancies;
•	 evaluating 	 the 	 structur e 	 and 	 composition 	 of 	 the 	 Boar d 	 with 	 r egar d	
to the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and making 
recommendations accordingly;
•	 r eviewing 	 the 	 time 	 r equir ements 	 of 	 Non-Executive 	 Dir ectors;
•	 giving 	 full 	 consideration 	 to 	 succession 	 planning; 	 and
•	 r eviewing 	 the 	 leadership 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for the continuing process of reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal controls. Internal control systems are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The directors confirm that they 
have reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control that 
have been in operation during the year. The Group has an internal audit 
function principally for periodic store visits. 
inteRnal ContRol: finanCial The internal control process has been reviewed and its main features are:
•	 Financial 	 Reporting: 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 compr ehensive 	 budgeting 	 system 	 with	
an annual budget approved by the Board. Monthly trading results 
are reported against the corresponding figures for the budget and 
previous year. The Board also reviews re-forecasts on a regular basis.
•	 Capital 	 Expenditur e: 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 compr ehensive 	 budgeting 	 system 	 for	
capital expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board. The 
Finance 	 Dir ector 	 authorises 	 individual 	 items 	 of 	 capital 	 expenditur e 	 and	
material items are also authorised by the Board or CEO.
•	 Cash 	 flow: 	 an 	 annual 	 cash 	 flow 	 for ecast 	 is 	 drawn 	 up 	 and 	 appr oved 	
by 	 the 	 Boar d 	 and 	 actual 	 cash 	 flow 	 is 	 r eviewed 	 monthly 	 against 	 this 	
forecast.
•	 Organisational 	 Structur e: 	 a 	 clear 	 organisational 	 structur e 	 with 	 defined 	
responsibilities and clear authority levels has been set.
•	 Stor e 	 Audits: 	 a 	 Stor es 	 Audit 	 function 	 exists 	 to 	 ensur e 	 that 	 Gr oup	
procedures regarding cash, pledges and stock handling are being 
adhered to. The store internal audits are performed biannually. 
 
inteRnal ContRol: Risk management 
During the year, the Group had in place formalised procedures to identify, 
evaluate and manage significant risks and to enable management to 
assess and regularly report to the Board on issues relating to business, 
operational, financial, regulatory and non-compliance risks.
relations with shareholDers
The Board recognises the importance of communications with 
shareholders. The Chief Executive’s Review and the operational review 
on pages 11 to 14 include a detailed review of the business and future 
developments. There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 
including presentations after the Group’s preliminary announcement of the 
year end results and at the half year results. Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  23  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Directors’ report
The directors present their annual report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
PrinciP al activities anD review of the Business
The main activities of the Group continue to be pawnbroking, gold 
purchasing, retail of jewellery, cheque cashing, unsecured lending and 
other 	 r elated 	 services 	 operated 	 thr ough 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited. 	 The	
principal activity of the Company is that of a non-trading holding company 
for 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 and 	 H&T 	 Finance 	 Limited.
A review of the business and its future development (including the 
information that fulfils the relevant requirements of section 417 of 
the 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006) 	 is 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Chairman’ s 	 Statement, 	 Chief	
Executive’ s 	 Review 	 and 	 Finance 	 Dir ector’ s 	 Review 	 on 	 pages 	 2, 	 11-14	 
and 15.
DiviDenDs
The directors propose a final dividend of 4.5p (2014: 2.7p) per share 
subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016. This 
pr oposed 	 dividend, 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 IAS 	 10 	 ‘Events 	 after 	 the 	 balance	
sheet 	 date’ 	 for 	 the 	 Gr oup, 	 and, 	 FRS 	 21 	 ‘Events 	 after 	 the 	 balance 	 sheet	
date’ for the Company, has not been provided for in the attached financial 
statements. During the year, the Company paid the final dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 of 2.7p per share and an interim dividend 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.5p per share (2014: 2.1p per 
share). 
caPital structure 
Details of the authorised share capital are shown in note 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Company has one class of ordinary 
shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right 
to one vote at general meetings of the Company. As disclosed in note 27, 
during the period no new ordinary shares (2014: no new ordinary shares) 
of £0.05 each were issued, called up and fully paid as part of the Group’s 
share option and long term incentive plans.
The nominal issued share capital as at 31 December 2015 was £1,842,813 
(31 December 2014: £1,842,813).
As 	 at 	 31 	 January 	 2016, 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 been 	 noti fied 	 of 	 the 	 following 	
voting rights by major shareholders of the Company:
 Percentage of voting rights and 
name of holder issued share capital
Artemis Investment Management 17.7%
Fidelity 	 W orldwide 	 Investment	 10.0%
Henderson Global Investors 9.6%
Fidelity 	 Management 	 & 	 Resear ch	 	 8.4%
Close Brothers Asset Management 4.9%
Octopus Investments  3.9%
Directors 3.8%
NBIM 3.5%
Hof Hoomeman Bankiers 2.6%
River and Mercantile Asset Management 2.2%
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28. Under these 
share schemes, there are currently potentially an additional 1,583,152 
shares that will be issued to current option holders at the call of the option 
holder. Under its Articles of Association, the Company has authority to 
allot under these share schemes, for cash, up to a maximum of 3,685,626 
ordinary shares without being required to offer such securities to all 
shareholders in accordance with statutory pre-emption rights.
On any date, no option may be granted under any share option scheme  
or long term incentive plan, if (as a result) the aggregate nominal value  
of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant to options granted during 
the previous 10 years under any share option scheme would exceed 10% 
of the nominal value of the share capital of the Company in issue on  
that date.
There are no other potentially dilutive equity instruments in the Company 
in issue at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
W ith 	 r egar d 	 to 	 the 	 appointment 	 and 	 r eplacement 	 of 	 dir ectors, 	 the	
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies Acts 
and related legislation and requires certain directors annually to retire by 
rotation. The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of 
the shareholders. 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, 
bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees’ 
share plans. None of these are considered to be significant in terms of 
their 	 likely 	 impact 	 on 	 the 	 business 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 as 	 a 	 whole. 	 Furthermor e	
the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company, or 
any other Group company, and its directors or employees that provide for 
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a 
takeover bid.
Directors anD their interests
The directors who served throughout the year and to the date of this 
report, except where otherwise stated, were as follows:
executive
J 	 G 	 Nichols
S 	 A 	 Fenerty
non-executive
P 	 D 	 McNamara	
M 	 L 	 Berryman	
J 	 F 	 Thornton	
The directors hold the following notifiable beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:  
  at 1 January acquired Disposed of at 31 December
Director type of share 2015 in the year in the year  2015
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 1,079,530	 —	 —	 1,079,530
S 	 A 	 Fenerty	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 305,933	 —	 —	 305,933
P 	 D 	 McNamara	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 17,351	 —	 —	 17,351
M 	 Berryman	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 2,000	 —	 —	 2,000
J 	 F 	 Thornton	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 5,000	 —	 —	 5,000 24  I 24  I
Directors’ report (continued)
Directors anD their interests (continueD)
As 	 a 	 r esult 	 of 	 the 	 Appr oved 	 and 	 Unappr oved 	 Shar e 	 Option 	 Schemes 	 operated 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup, 	 the 	 dir ectors 	 have 	 a 	 beneficial 	 inter est 	 in 	 the 	 following 	
options granted over ordinary shares in H&T Group plc:
       market
  granted exercised forfeited   price on
 at start during during during at end exercise date Date from
 of year the year year the year of year price exercised which expiry
Director no. no.  no. no. no. pence pence exercisable date
J g nichols         
– 	 2006 	 Scheme	 87,397	 —	 —	 —	 87,397	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
– 	 2007 	 Scheme	 78,390	 —	 —	 —	 78,390	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
– 	 2008 	 Scheme	 92,293	 —	 —	 —	 92,293	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
– 	 2009 	 Scheme	 87,628	 —	 —	 —	 87,628	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
– 	 2010 	 Scheme	 93,686	 —	 —	 —	 93,686	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
	 439,394	 —	 —	 —	 439,394	 	 	 	
s a fenerty         
– 	 2006 	 Scheme	 51,233	 —	 —	 —	 51,233	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
– 	 2007 	 Scheme	 45,517	 —	 —	 —	 45,517	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
– 	 2008 	 Scheme	 59,544	 —	 —	 —	 59,544	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
– 	 2009 	 Scheme	 61,855	 —	 —	 —	 61,855	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
– 	 2010 	 Scheme	 54,989	 —	 —	 —	 54,989	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
	 273,138	 —	 —	 —	 273,138	 	 	 	
         
No share options were granted to any director in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The 	 following 	 dir ectors 	 have 	 also 	 a 	 beneficial 	 inter est 	 in 	 conditional 	 shar es 	 granted 	 as 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (further 	 details 	 ar e 	 pr ovided 	
within note 28):
      
    granted exercised forfeited   Date when
   at start during during during at end exercise conditional
   of year the year the year the year of year price grant is
Director   no. no.  no. no. no. pence achievable
J g nichols       
– 	 2012 	 L TIP	 	 	 80,778	 —	 —	 (80,778)	 —	 —	 17/4/2015
– 	 2013 	 L TIP	 	 	 82,276	 —	 —	 —	 82,276	 —	 28/3/2016
	 	 	 163,054	 —	 —	 (80,778)	 82,276	 	
s a fenerty       
– 	 2012 	 L TIP	 	 	 40,301	 —	 —	 (40,301)	 —	 —	 17/4/2015
– 	 2013 	 L TIP	 	 	 41,048	 —	 —	 —	 41,048	 —	 28/3/2016
	 	 	 81,349	 —	 —	 (40,301)	 41,048	 	
At 31 December 2015, the market price of H&T Group plc’s shares was 197p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 156p – 208p.
At 31 December 2014, the market price of H&T Group plc’s shares was 160p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2014 was  
145p – 188.5p.
None of the directors hold any interests in the shares of any other company within the H&T Group plc group.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, the following directors will by rotation be offering themselves for re-election:
•	 M 	 Berryman	
•	 J 	 F 	 Thornton Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  25  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Directors’ inDemnities
Under the Company’s articles of association, any director is entitled to be indemnified by the Company (to the extent permitted by law) against any liability 
incurred by him in defending proceedings which relate to any acts or omissions in his capacity as officer of the Company. In addition, the Company 
maintains insurance for the benefit of the directors in respect of such matters which it considers to be appropriate. These arrangements were in force 
throughout the whole of the current and preceding financial years.
 
aggregate Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
 2015 2014
 £  £
Emoluments 597,935 585,344
Amounts gained under long term incentive schemes — 72,880
Money purchase pension contributions 42,445 41,439
 640,380 699,663
  
Directors’ emoluments anD comPensation
	 Fees/Basic	 Benefits	 Annual	 2015 2014
 salary in kind bonuses total Total
Director £  £ £ £ £
executive     
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 244,061	 12,055	 —	 256,116 252,266
S 	 A 	 Fenerty	 180,393	 9,709	 —	 190,102 183,603
non-executive     
P 	 D 	 McNamara	 70,568	 —	 —	 70,568 69,525
M 	 Berryman	 41,818	 —	 —	 41,818 41,200
J 	 F 	 Thornton	 39,331	 —	 —	 39,331 38,750
Aggr egate 	 emoluments	 576,171	 21,764	 —	 597,935 585,344
Directors’ Bonus schemes
Remuneration Committee consider the total remuneration package available to Executive Directors in light of market practice for companies of a similar 
size and delivering a similar shareholder performance. As part of the total package, Executive Directors are entitled to receive an annual bonus, subject to 
meeting certain performance conditions. These performance conditions, the maximum bonus payable and the proportion paid for on-target performance 
are set by the Remuneration Committee in advance of each financial year.
The 2015 bonus structure was as follows:
•	 	 Executive 	 Dir ectors 	 r eceive 	 a 	 per centage 	 of 	 salary 	 for 	 achieving 	 a 	 minimum 	 target 	 based 	 on 	 Gr oup 	 pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax 	 and 	 personal 	 objectives; 	 and
•	 	 For 	 each 	 1% 	 out-performance 	 to 	 the 	 target 	 additional 	 per centages 	 ar e 	 paid 	 up 	 to 	 a 	 maximum 	 of 	 35% 	 over 	 the 	 target. 	 No 	 dir ector 	 can 	 r eceive 	 a	
bonus of more than 145% of salary.
There were no Bonuses paid to directors in relation to 2015.
The 2016 directors’ bonus scheme is the same structure as the 2015 scheme.
In 2015 the Board established a long term bonus plan based on the profit performance of the business over the period to 2020. The 2015 scheme covers 
the initial period 2015 – 2017 and provides for a payment of no more than 100% of the base salary of the director.  26  I 26  I
Directors’ report (continued)
Directors’ Pension entitlements
Two directors (2014: 2) were members of money purchase schemes during the year. Contributions paid by the Company in respect of such directors were 
as follows:
 2015 2014
 £  £
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 24,406 24,045
S 	 A 	 Fenerty	 18,039 17,394
 42,445 41,439
  
Personnel
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. All employees have contracts of 
employment 	 with 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited, 	 the 	 trading 	 subsidiary 	 in 	 the 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 gr oup.
Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 maintains 	 a 	 policy 	 of 	 equal 	 opportunities 	 and 	 is 	 committed 	 to 	 ensuring 	 that 	 all 	 individuals 	 ar e 	 tr eated 	 fairly, 	 with 	 r espect 	 and	
are valued. 
All 	 employees 	 ar e 	 incentivised 	 thr ough 	 di f fer ent 	 bonus 	 schemes. 	 Stor e 	 managers 	 and 	 management 	 also 	 quali fy 	 for 	 the 	 appr oved 	 shar e 	 option 	 scheme	
(ASOS) 	 while 	 dir ectors 	 and 	 senior 	 management 	 also 	 quali fy 	 for 	 the 	 unappr oved 	 shar e 	 option 	 scheme 	 (USOS). 	 The 	 Executive 	 Dir ectors 	 also 	 quali fy 	 for 	 the	
Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (L TIP). 	 Further 	 details 	 on 	 shar e 	 option 	 plans 	 ar e 	 pr ovided 	 in 	 note 	 28.
emPloyee consultation
Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that their views are taken into account when 
decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all employees are aware of the financial and economic performance of their stores, 
regional areas and of the Group as a whole. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, weekly information bulletins, employee surveys, a 
quarterly newsletter and every year through a store managers’ conference.
emPloyment of the DisaBleD
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled persons in jobs suited to their individual circumstances and,  
as 	 appr opriate, 	 to 	 consider 	 them 	 for 	 r ecruitment 	 opportunities, 	 car eer 	 development 	 and 	 training. 	 Wher e 	 possible, 	 arrangements 	 ar e 	 made 	 for 	 the	
continuing employment of employees who have become disabled whilst in the Group’s employment.
suPPlier P ayment Policy
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of 
the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment. Trade payables of the Group at 31 December 2015 were equivalent to 30 (2014: 29) days’ 
purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year. 
charitaBle anD Political contriButions
During the year the Company and Group made donations to registered local and national charities of £6,200 (2014: £5,500). No political contributions 
were made during the year (2014: £nil). Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  27  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
going concern
The Group delivered profit after tax of £5.4m for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £4.3m). The Group has also increased its net assets to £94.1m 
(2014: £90.9m). The Group’s net debt balance decreased by £7.6m during 2015 highlighting the Group’s ability to manage its working capital use and 
generate 	 str ong 	 cash 	 flows.
The Board has approved a detailed budget for 2016, which indicates surplus cash generated from operations after accounting for the Group’s forecast 
levels 	 of 	 capital 	 expenditur e. 	 On 	 12 	 February 	 2016 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 r efinanced 	 the 	 existing 	 facility 	 with 	 Lloyds 	 Bank 	 plc 	 allowing 	 for 	 maximum 	 borr owings 	
of £30.0m, subject to covenants, which is not due to expire until April 2020. At year end £13.0m was drawn on the facility. This strong balance sheet 
position provides a high level of confidence that the Group will be able to repay all liabilities as they fall due during 2016. The Board is also confident of 
meeting all covenant tests during the year.
In 	 considering 	 the 	 going 	 concern 	 basis 	 of 	 pr eparation 	 longer 	 term 	 for ecasts 	 ar e 	 also 	 r eviewed 	 by 	 the 	 Boar d, 	 with 	 the 	 ‘base 	 case’ 	 financial 	 for ecasts 	
r evealing 	 no 	 inability 	 to 	 meet 	 financial 	 covenants 	 or 	 r epay 	 liabilities. 	 Sensitivity 	 analysis 	 under 	 less 	 favourable 	 scenarios 	 designed 	 to 	 test 	 the 	 point 	 at 	 which 	
the Group will either have insufficient headroom or breach financial covenants have also been prepared and reviewed. The Board considers the selected 
scenarios as remote, and is comfortable that mitigating strategies are available to the Group to offset liquidity constraints. 
W e 	 believe 	 that 	 the 	 curr ent 	 economic 	 climate 	 should 	 have 	 no 	 signi ficant 	 negative 	 impact 	 to 	 our 	 business 	 model. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 of fering 	 is 	 principally 	 thr ough 	
secured lending against pledges. The Group policies on pawn lending remain rigorous and prudent, such that the Group has limited exposure to loss in the 
event of customers not redeeming their pledges, due to the value of the pledge collateral held, principally being gold and precious stones. The Group has 
no 	 r eason 	 to 	 believe 	 that 	 the 	 value 	 will 	 not 	 be 	 maintained 	 in 	 the 	 near 	 futur e. 	 Further 	 details 	 ar e 	 pr ovided 	 in 	 note 	 26.
Based on the above considerations and after reviewing in detail 2016 and Q1 2017 forecasts, the directors have formed the view that the Group has 
adequate 	 r esour ces 	 to 	 continue 	 as 	 a 	 going 	 concern 	 for 	 the 	 next 	 12 	 months 	 and 	 has 	 pr epar ed 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 this 	 basis. 	 Principal 	 risks 	 and 	
uncertainties 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 business 	 ar e 	 discussed 	 in 	 mor e 	 detail 	 in 	 the 	 Strategic 	 Report.
inDePenDent auDitor anD statement of Provision of information to the inDePenDent auDitor
Deloitte 	 LLP 	 has 	 expr essed 	 its 	 willingness 	 to 	 continue 	 in 	 of fice 	 as 	 auditor 	 and 	 a 	 r esolution 	 to 	 r eappoint 	 them 	 will 	 be 	 pr oposed 	 at 	 the 	 forthcoming 	 Annual 	
General Meeting.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
(1)  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditor is unaware; and
(2)  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of directors and signed on behalf of the Board
J g nichols
Chief Executive
2 March 2016 28  I 28  I
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare 
the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 International 	 Financial 	
Reporting 	 Standar ds 	 (IFRSs) 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	 Eur opean 	 Union 	 and 	 Article	
4 	 of 	 the 	 IAS 	 Regulation 	 and 	 have 	 elected 	 to 	 pr epar e 	 the 	 company 	 financial 	
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting 	 Practice 	 (United 	 Kingdom 	 Accounting 	 Standar ds 	 and 	 applicable	
law), 	 including 	 FRS 	 101 	 “Reduced 	 Disclosur e 	 Framework”. 	 Under 	 company	
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In 	 pr eparing 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements, 	 the 	 dir ectors 	 ar e 	
required to:
•	 select 	 suitable 	 accounting 	 policies 	 and 	 then 	 apply 	 them 	 consistently;
•	 make 	 judgments 	 and 	 accounting 	 estimates 	 that 	 ar e 	 r easonable 	 and	
prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 UK 	 Accounting 	 Standar ds 	 have 	 been	
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements; and
•	 pr epar e 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 the 	 going 	 concern 	 basis 	 unless 	 it 	 is 	
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting 
Standar d 	 1 	 r equir es 	 that 	 dir ectors:
•	 pr operly 	 select 	 and 	 apply 	 accounting 	 policies;
•	 pr esent 	 information, 	 including 	 accounting 	 policies, 	 in 	 a 	 manner	
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
•	 pr ovide 	 additional 	 disclosur es 	 when 	 compliance 	 with 	 the 	 speci fic 	
r equir ements 	 in 	 IFRSs 	 ar e 	 insuf ficient 	 to 	 enable 	 users 	 to 	 understand 	 the 	
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•	 make 	 an 	 assessment 	 of 	 the 	 Company’ s 	 ability 	 to 	 continue 	 as 	 a 	 going	
concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation 	 in 	 the 	 United 	 Kingdom 	 governing 	 the 	 pr eparation 	 and	
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
resPonsiBility statement 
W e 	 confirm 	 that 	 to 	 the 	 best 	 of 	 our 	 knowledge:
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements, 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the 	 r elevant 	
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
•	 the 	 strategic 	 r eport 	 includes 	 a 	 fair 	 r eview 	 of 	 the 	 development 	 and	
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they 
face; and
•	 the 	 annual 	 r eport 	 and 	 financial 	 statements, 	 taken 	 as 	 a 	 whole, 	 ar e 	 fair , 	
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors on  
2 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by.
By order of the Board
J g nichols s a fenerty
Chief 	 Executive	 Finance 	 Dir ector	
2 March 2016 2 March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  29  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
W e 	 have 	 audited 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 for 	
the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the Group statement 
of comprehensive Income, the Group statement of changes in equity, 
the 	 Gr oup 	 balance 	 sheet, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 cash 	 flow 	 statement 	 and 	 the 	 r elated 	
notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in 	 their 	 pr eparation 	 is 	 applicable 	 law 	 and 	 International 	 Financial 	 Reporting	
Standar ds 	 (IFRSs) 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	 Eur opean 	 Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accor dance 	 with 	 Chapter 	 3 	 of 	 Part 	 16 	 of 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006. 	 Our	
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
resPective resPonsiBilities of Directors anD auDitor
As 	 explained 	 mor e 	 fully 	 in 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 Responsibilities 	 Statement,	
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial 
statements 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 applicable 	 law 	 and 	 International 	 Standar ds	
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the 	 Auditing 	 Practices 	 Boar d’ s 	 Ethical 	 Standar ds 	 for 	 Auditors.
scoPe of the auDit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 
report.
oPinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 af fairs 	 as 	 at	 
31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended;
•	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 IFRSs 	 as 	 adopted	 
by the European Union; and
•	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the 	 r equir ements 	 of 	 the	
Companies Act 2006.
oPinion on other matters PrescriBeD By the  
comP anies act 2006
In 	 our 	 opinion 	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Strategic 	 Report 	 and 	 the	
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
matters on which we are requireD to rePort  
By excePtion
W e 	 have 	 nothing 	 to 	 r eport 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 the 	 following 	 matters 	 wher e 	 the	
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 certain 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 dir ectors’ 	 r emuneration 	 speci fied 	 by 	 law 	 ar e 	 not 	
made; or
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and 	 explanations 	 we 	 r equir e	
for our audit.
other matter
W e 	 have 	 r eported 	 separately 	 on 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	
of H&T Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
roBert Knight	 (Senior 	 Statutory 	 Auditor)
for 	 and 	 on 	 behal f 	 of 	 Deloitte 	 LLP
Charter ed 	 Accountants 	 and 	 Statutory 	 Auditor	
Crawley, United Kingdom
2 March 2016
Independent Auditor’ s report
to the members of H&T Group plc 30  I 30  I
Group statement of comprehensive income
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015
  2015  2014
continuing operations Note £’000  £’000
Revenue 5,6 89,244 87,696
Cost of sales  (41,782) (42,019)
gross profit 6 47,462 45,677
Other direct expenses  (31,968) (31,627)
Administrative expenses  (7,976) (7,833)
operating profit  7,518 6,217
   
Investment revenues 5,10 1 1
Finance 	 costs	 11	 (679) (708)
Profit before taxation 7 6,840 5,510
   
Tax charge on profit  12 (1,462) (1,255)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income  5,378 4,255
   
  2015 2014
earnings per share  Pence	 Pence
Basic 13 14.88 11.78
Diluted 13 14.86 11.78 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  31  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
    employee
   share Benefit
  share premium trust shares retained
  capital account reserve earnings total
 Note £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
at 1 January 2014  1,843 25,409 (38) 60,914 88,128
      
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 —	 —	 —	 4,255	 4,255
total income for the financial year	 	 —	 —	 —	 4,255	 4,255
Shar e 	 option 	 movement 	 	 28	 —	 —	 —	 246	 246
Dividends 	 paid	 14	 —	 —	 —	 (1,769)	 (1,769)
Employee 	 benefit 	 trust 	 shar es	 28	 —	 —	 3	 —	 3
at 1 January 2015  1,843 25,409 (35) 63,646 90,863 
 
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 — — — 5,378 5,378
total income for the financial year  — — — 5,378 5,378
Shar e 	 option 	 movement	 28	 — — — 104 104
Dividends paid 14 — — — (2,285) (2,285)
at 31 December 2015  1,843 25,409 (35) 66,843 94,060
Group statement of changes in equity
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 32  I 32  I
Group balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015
  31 December 31 December 
  2015  2014
 Note £’000  £’000
non-current assets   
Goodwill 15 17,707 17,707
Other intangible assets 16 752 1,056
Pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 17	 8,138 9,954
Deferred tax assets 24 542 527
  27,139 29,244
current assets   
Inventories 19 24,802 29,271
Trade and other receivables 20 50,893 49,423
Other current assets 20 646 229
Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,923 8,250
  87,264 87,173
total assets  114,403 116,417
current liabilities   
Borrowings 23 — (1,925)
Trade and other payables 22 (5,482) (6,053)
Current tax liabilities 22 (645) (328)
  (6,127) (8,306)
net current assets  81,137 78,867
non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 23 (12,911) (15,758)
Pr ovisions	 25	 (1,305) (1,490)
  (14,216) (17,248)
total liabilities  (20,343) (25,554)
net assets  94,060 90,863
equity   
Shar e 	 capital	 27	 1,843 1,843
Shar e 	 pr emium 	 account	 	 25,409 25,409
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve 27 (35) (35)
Retained earnings  66,843 63,646
total equity attributable to equity holders  94,060 90,863
   
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 05188117, were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on  
2 March 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by:
J g nichols
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  33  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Group cash flow statement
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015
  2015  2014
 Note £’000  £’000
net cash generated from operating activities 30 11,209 14,373
investing activities   
Interest received  1 1
Pr oceeds 	 on 	 disposal 	 of 	 pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 	 — 52
Pur chases 	 of 	 pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 	 (1,207) (1,117)
Acquisition of trade and assets of businesses  (120) (469)
net cash used in investing activities  (1,326) (1,533)
financing activities   
Dividends paid 14 (2,285) (1,769)
Decrease in borrowings  (3,000) (10,000)
Decrease in Bank overdraft  (1,925) (1,075)
Loan 	 to 	 the 	 Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust 	 for 	 acquisition 	 of 	 own 	 shar es	 	 — 3
net cash used in financing activities  (7,210) (12,841)
net increase in cash and cash equivalents  2,673 (1)
   
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  8,250 8,251
cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  10,923 8,250 34  I 34  I
1. general information
H&T Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts. The address of the registered office is given on page 20.  
The 	 natur e 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 operations 	 and 	 its 	 principal 	 activities 	 ar e 	 set 	 out 	 in 	 note 	 6 	 and 	 in 	 the 	 Chairman’ s 	 Statement, 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 Of ficer’ s 	 Review, 	 the 	
Finance 	 Dir ector’ s 	 Review 	 and 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 Report.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. 
2.  changes in accounting Policies 
adoption of new and Revised standaRds In the current year, the following new and revised standard and interpretations have been adopted:
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 19 	 	 Employee 	 benefits
None of the new or revised standards that have been adopted affected the amounts reported in the financial statements.
standaRds not affeCting the RepoR ted Results and finanCial position
At 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 authorisation 	 of 	 these 	 financial 	 statements 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 had 	 not 	 applied 	 the 	 following 	 new 	 and 	 r evised 	 IFRSs 	 that 	 have 	 been 	 issued 	 but 	 ar e 	
not yet effective:
IFRS 	 9	 Financial 	 Instruments
IFRS 	 14	 Regulatory 	 Deferral 	 Accounts
IFRS 	 15	 Revenue 	 fr om 	 Contracts 	 with 	 Customers
IFRS 	 16	 Leases
Amendments 	 to 	 IFRS 	 11	 Accounting 	 for 	 Acquisitions 	 of 	 Inter ests 	 in 	 Joint 	 Operations
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 16 	 and 	 IAS 	 38	 Clari fication 	 of 	 Acceptable 	 Methods 	 of 	 Depr eciation 	 and 	 Amortisation
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 16 	 and 	 IAS 	 41	 Agricultur e: 	 Bear er 	 Plants
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 27	 Equity 	 Method 	 in 	 Separate 	 Financial 	 Statements
Amendments 	 to 	 IFRS 	 10, 	 IFRS 	 12 	 and 	 IAS 	 28	 Sale 	 or 	 Contribution 	 of 	 Assets 	 between, 	 Disclosur e 	 of 	 Inter ests 	 in 	 Other 	 Entities 	 and	
	 Investor 	 and 	 its 	 Associate 	 or 	 Joint 	 V entur e
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 1	 Disclosur e 	 initiative
Annual 	 Impr ovements 	 to 	 IFRSs: 	 2010-2012	 Amendments 	 to: 	 IFRS 	 2 	 Shar e-based 	 Payment, 	 IFRS 	 3 	 Business 	 Combinations, 	 IFRS 	 8	
	 Operating 	 Statements, 	 IFRS 	 13 	 Fair 	 V alue 	 Measur ement, 	 IAS 	 16 	 Pr operty, 	 Plant 	 and	
	 Equipment, 	 IAS 	 24 	 Related 	 Party 	 Disclosur es 	 and 	 IAS 	 38 	 Intangible 	 Assets
Annual 	 Impr ovements 	 to 	 IFRSs: 	 2011-2013	 Amendments 	 to: 	 IFRS 	 1 	 First-time 	 Adoption 	 of 	 International 	 Financial 	 Reporting	
	 Standar ds, 	 IFRS 	 3 	 Business 	 Combinations, 	 IFRS 	 13 	 Fair 	 V alue 	 Measur ement 	 and 	 IAS 	 40	
	 Investment 	 Pr operty
Annual 	 Impr ovements 	 to 	 IFRSs: 	 2012-2014	 Amendments 	 to: 	 IFRS 	 5 	 Non-curr ent 	 Assets 	 Held 	 for 	 Sale 	 and 	 Discontinued	
	 Operations, 	 IFRS 	 7 	 Financial 	 Instruments: 	 Disclosur es, 	 IAS 	 19 	 Employee 	 Benefits 	 and 	
	 IAS 	 34 	 Interim 	 Financial 	 Reporting
 
The 	 dir ectors 	 do 	 not 	 expect 	 that 	 the 	 adoption 	 of 	 the 	 Standar ds 	 listed 	 above 	 will 	 have 	 a 	 material 	 impact 	 on 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 in 	
futur e 	 periods, 	 except 	 that 	 IFRS 	 9 	 will 	 impact 	 both 	 the 	 measur ement 	 and 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 financial 	 instruments 	 and 	 IFRS 	 15 	 may 	 have 	 an 	 impact 	 on 	 r evenue 	
r ecognition 	 and 	 r elated 	 disclosur es. 	 Beyond 	 the 	 information 	 above 	 it 	 is 	 not 	 practicable 	 to 	 pr ovide 	 a 	 r easonable 	 estimate 	 of 	 the 	 impact 	 of 	 IFRS 	 9 	 and 	 IFRS 	 15	
until a detailed review has been completed.
IFRS 	 16 	 establishes 	 principles 	 for 	 the 	 r ecognition, 	 measur ement, 	 pr esentation 	 and 	 disclosur e 	 of 	 leases, 	 with 	 the 	 objective 	 of 	 ensuring 	 that 	 lessees 	 and	
lessors provide relevant information that faithfully represents those transactions. 
Under 	 IFRS 	 16 	 signi ficant 	 changes 	 ar e 	 intr oduced 	 to 	 lessee 	 accounting, 	 with 	 the 	 distinction 	 between 	 operating 	 and 	 finance 	 leases 	 r emoved 	 and 	 assets 	 and 	
liabilities recognised in respect of all leases (subject to limited exceptions for short-term leases and leases of low value assets).
Upon lease commencement a lessee recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. 
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at the amount of the lease liability plus any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee. Under the cost model a 
right-of-use asset is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. 
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments payable over the lease term, discounted at the rate implicit in the lease if 
that can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use their incremental borrowing rate.
Subject 	 to 	 EU 	 endorsement, 	 IFRS 	 16 	 would 	 apply 	 for 	 annual 	 r eporting 	 periods 	 beginning 	 on 	 or 	 after 	 1 	 January 	 2019. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 curr ently 	 assessing	
the 	 impact 	 of 	 accounting 	 changes 	 that 	 will 	 arise 	 under 	 IFRS 	 16. 	 The 	 changes 	 ar e 	 expected 	 to 	 have 	 a 	 material 	 impact 	 on 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 Statement 	 of	
Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 and 	 Consolidated 	 Financial 	 Statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  35  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
3. significant accounting Policies
Basis of aCCounting The 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 International 	 Financial 	 Reporting 	 Standar ds 	 (IFRSs) 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	 Eur opean 	 Union 	 and 	
therefore the Group financial statements comply with The AIM Rules.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made 
up to 31 December each year. 
going ConCeRn The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
financial 	 statements. 	 Further 	 detail 	 is 	 contained 	 in 	 the 	 Dir ectors 	 Report.
Business ComBinations 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, 
or trade and assets previously operated through either sole partnership in limited companies with no audited financial statements at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill 
which 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 as 	 an 	 asset 	 is 	 r eviewed 	 for 	 impairment 	 at 	 least 	 annually. 	 Any 	 impairment 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 immediately 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of	
comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
CGU’s to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be 
impair ed. 	 Goodwill 	 arising 	 on 	 acquisitions 	 befor e 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 transition 	 to 	 IFRS 	 has 	 been 	 r etained 	 at 	 the 	 pr evious 	 UK 	 GAAP 	 amounts 	 subject 	 to 	 being	
tested for impairment annually as described above.
intangiBle assets
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are carried at cost less amortisation less impairment losses. Intangible assets represent intangibles which have 
been 	 separately 	 identi fied 	 under 	 IFRS 	 3 	 arising 	 in 	 business 	 combinations, 	 or 	 meet 	 the 	 r ecognition 	 criteria 	 of 	 IAS 	 38, 	 “Intangible 	 Assets”, 	 being 	 principally 	
computer software assets.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is calculated using the expected life of the intangible assets acquired.
Amortisation of other intangible assets (computer software) is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the asset less its assessed 
realisable value over its estimated useful life (6 to 8 years).
pRopeR ty, plant and equipment
Pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 cost 	 less 	 accumulated 	 depr eciation 	 and 	 any 	 impairment 	 in 	 value.
depReCiation Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset evenly 
over its expected useful life, as follows:
shoR t leasehold pRemises – 	 Leasehold 	 impr ovements	 Shorter 	 of 	 7 	 years 	 or 	 li fe 	 of 	 lease
ComputeR equipment
– Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
fixtuRes and fittings 10 years
motoR vehiCles 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end. 36  I 36  I
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD)
inventoRies Inventories 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 the 	 lower 	 of 	 cost 	 and 	 net 	 r ealisable 	 value. 	 For 	 inventory 	 acquir ed 	 for 	 r etail 	 sale 	 the 	 cost 	 r epr esents 	 the 	 pur chase 	 price 	 plus	
overheads 	 dir ectly 	 r elated 	 to 	 bringing 	 inventory 	 to 	 its 	 pr esent 	 location 	 and 	 condition 	 and 	 is 	 measur ed 	 on 	 a 	 first 	 in 	 first 	 out 	 basis. 	 For 	 inventory 	 arising 	 fr om 	
unredeemed pledges the cost represents the amount originally loaned, plus overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present location and 
condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution.
Wher e 	 necessary 	 pr ovision 	 is 	 made 	 for 	 obsolete, 	 slow 	 moving 	 and 	 damaged 	 inventories.
finanCial assets
In 	 accor dance 	 with 	 IAS 	 39, 	 ‘Financial 	 Instruments: 	 Recognition 	 and 	 Measur ement’ 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 classi fied 	 its 	 financial 	 assets 	 as 	 ‘loans 	 and 	 r eceivables’ 	 and 	
financial 	 assets 	 at 	 ‘fair 	 value 	 thr ough 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss’. 	
Loans and receivabLes The principal financial assets included in this measurement category are:
Trade receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers in the normal course of business. Trade receivables include certain amounts, namely pledge 
r eceivables 	 and 	 Personal 	 Loan 	 debtors 	 which 	 ar e 	 inter est 	 bearing. 	 The 	 accrued 	 inter est 	 arising 	 on 	 these 	 inter est 	 bearing 	 assets 	 is 	 included 	 in 	 pr epayments	
and accrued income using the effective interest method. All other amounts which are not interest bearing are stated at their nominal value as reduced by 
appr opriate 	 allowances 	 for 	 estimated 	 irr ecoverable 	 amounts, 	 which 	 ar e 	 charged 	 to 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at hand and deposits held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
FinanciaL assets at FvtPL 
Only 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 r ecor ded 	 as 	 financial 	 assets 	 at 	 FVTPL. 	 Financial 	 assets 	 at 	 FVTPL 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 fair 	 value, 	 with 	 any 	
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. 
imP airment oF FinanciaL assets
Financial 	 assets, 	 other 	 than 	 those 	 at 	 FVTPL, 	 ar e 	 assessed 	 for 	 indicators 	 of 	 impairment 	 at 	 each 	 balance 	 sheet 	 date. 	 Financial 	 assets 	 ar e 	 impair ed 	 wher e 	 ther e	
is 	 objective 	 evidence 	 that, 	 as 	 a 	 r esult 	 of 	 one 	 or 	 mor e 	 events 	 that 	 occurr ed 	 after 	 the 	 initial 	 r ecognition 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	 asset, 	 the 	 estimated 	 futur e 	 cash 	 flows 	
of the investment have been reduced. 
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
•	 signi ficant 	 financial 	 di f ficulty 	 of 	 the 	 counterparty; 	 or
•	 default 	 on 	 payments; 	 or
•	 it 	 becoming 	 pr obable 	 that 	 the 	 counterparty 	 will 	 enter 	 bankruptcy 	 or 	 financial 	 r e-organisation.
For 	 certain 	 categories 	 of 	 financial 	 asset, 	 such 	 as 	 trade 	 r eceivables, 	 assets 	 that 	 ar e 	 assessed 	 not 	 to 	 be 	 impair ed 	 individually 	 ar e 	 subsequently 	 assessed 	 for 	
impairment on a collective basis. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where 
the 	 carrying 	 amount 	 is 	 r educed 	 thr ough 	 the 	 use 	 of 	 an 	 allowance 	 account. 	 When 	 a 	 trade 	 r eceivable 	 is 	 consider ed 	 uncollectible, 	 it 	 is 	 written 	 of f 	 against 	 the	
allowance account.
Subsequent 	 r ecoveries 	 of 	 amounts 	 pr eviously 	 written 	 of f 	 ar e 	 cr edited 	 against 	 the 	 allowance 	 account. 	 Changes 	 in 	 the 	 carrying 	 amount 	 of 	 the 	 allowance	
account are immediately recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment 	 was 	 r ecognised, 	 the 	 pr eviously 	 r ecognised 	 impairment 	 loss 	 is 	 r eversed 	 thr ough 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 to 	 the	
extent that the carrying amount of the financial asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been 
had the impairment not been recognised. 
finanCial liaBilities and equity
Financial 	 liabilities 	 and 	 equity 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 classi fied 	 accor ding 	 to 	 the 	 substance 	 of 	 the 	 contractual 	 arrangements 	 enter ed 	 into. 	
equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  37  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD) 
finanCial liaBilities and equity (Continued)
FinanciaL LiabiLities 
Financial 	 liabilities 	 ar e 	 classi fied 	 as 	 either 	 financial 	 liabilities 	 ‘at 	 FVTPL ’ 	 or 	 ‘other 	 financial 	 liabilities’.
Financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL	
Only 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 r ecor ded 	 as 	 financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL.
Financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 fair 	 value, 	 with 	 any 	 r esultant 	 gain 	 or 	 loss 	 r ecognised 	 in 	 pr ofit 	 or 	 loss. 	 The 	 net 	 gain 	 or 	 loss 	 r ecognised 	 in 	 pr ofit 	 or 	
loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. All other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
t axation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The 	 tax 	 curr ently 	 payable 	 is 	 based 	 on 	 taxable 	 pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 year . 	 T axable 	 pr ofit 	 di f fers 	 fr om 	 net 	 pr ofit 	 as 	 r eported 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	
Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that 	 taxable 	 pr ofits 	 will 	 be 	 available 	 against 	 which 	 deductible 	 temporary 	 di f fer ences 	 can 	 be 	 utilised. 	 Such 	 assets 	 and 	 liabilities 	 ar e 	 not 	 r ecognised 	 i f 	 the 	
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged 
or 	 cr edited 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income, 	 except 	 when 	 it 	 r elates 	 to 	 items 	 charged 	 or 	 cr edited 	 dir ectly 	 to 	 equity, 	 in 	 which 	 case	
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
leases Leases 	 taken 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 ar e 	 assessed 	 individually 	 as 	 to 	 whether 	 they 	 ar e 	 finance 	 leases 	 or 	 operating 	 leases. 	 Leases 	 ar e 	 classi fied 	 as 	 finance 	 leases 	
whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Leases 	 wher e 	 the 	 lessor 	 r etains 	 substantially 	 all 	 the 	 risks 	 and 	 benefits 	 of 	 ownership 	 of 	 the 	 asset 	 ar e 	 classi fied 	 as 	 operating 	 leases. 	 Operating 	 lease 	 r ental 	
payments 	 ar e 	 r ecognised 	 as 	 an 	 expense 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 on 	 a 	 straight-line 	 basis 	 over 	 the 	 lease 	 term. 	 The 	 benefit 	
of lease incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
The Group currently has no finance leases.
pRovisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable 
that 	 an 	 outflow 	 of 	 economic 	 benefits 	 will 	 be 	 r equir ed 	 to 	 settle 	 the 	 obligation. 	 Pr ovisions 	 ar e 	 measur ed 	 at 	 the 	 dir ectors’ 	 best 	 estimate 	 of 	 the 	 expenditur e 	
required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification costs 
and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes aware of any 
significant amounts that will be required.
shaRe Capital and shaRe pRemium aCCount Ther e 	 is 	 one 	 class 	 of 	 shar es. 	 When 	 new 	 shar es 	 ar e 	 issued, 	 they 	 ar e 	 r ecor ded 	 in 	 shar e 	 capital 	 at 	 their 	 par 	 value. 	 The 	 excess 	 of 	 the 	 issue 	 price 	 over 	 the 	 par	
value is recorded in the share premium account.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are recorded in equity as a deduction, net of tax, to the share premium account. 38  I 38  I
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD) 
employee Benefit tRust shaRes Under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (‘L TIP’) 	 for 	 the 	 dir ectors, 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 issued 	 certain 	 shar es 	 to 	 an 	 Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust, 	
paid 	 for 	 thr ough 	 the 	 issuance 	 of 	 a 	 loan 	 to 	 the 	 T rust 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup. 	 The 	 awar d 	 of 	 shar es 	 under 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 conditional 	 upon 	 certain 	 vesting 	 criteria, 	 as	
outlined 	 in 	 note 	 28. 	 The 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 awar ds 	 made 	 is 	 measur ed 	 under 	 the 	 policy 	 disclosed 	 below 	 for 	 Shar e 	 Options.
The Group presents the conditional shares as an adjustment to own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve, 
until the point that the shares are awarded, and cease to be conditional awards of shares.
Revenue ReCognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services and interest 
income 	 pr ovided 	 in 	 the 	 normal 	 course 	 of 	 business, 	 net 	 of 	 discounts, 	 V A T 	 and 	 other 	 sales-r elated 	 taxes.
Revenue 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 to 	 the 	 extent 	 that 	 it 	 is 	 pr obable 	 that 	 the 	 economic 	 benefits 	 will 	 flow 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 the 	 r evenue 	 can 	 be 	 r eliably 	 measur ed. 	 The 	
following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
•	 Pawnbr oking, 	 or 	 Pawn 	 Service 	 Charge 	 (PSC), 	 comprises 	 inter est 	 on 	 pledge 	 book 	 loans, 	 plus 	 auction 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss, 	 less 	 any 	 auction 	 commissions 	
payable and less surplus payable to the customer. Interest receivable on loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the principal outstanding 
and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial 
asset to that asset’s net carrying amount;
•	 Retail 	 comprises 	 r evenue 	 fr om 	 r etail 	 jewellery 	 sales, 	 with 	 inventory 	 sour ced 	 fr om 	 unr edeemed 	 pawn 	 loans, 	 newly 	 pur chased 	 inventory 	 and 	 inventory	
refurbished from the Group’s gold purchasing operation. All revenue is recognised at the point of sale;
•	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 and 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 comprises 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 gold 	 scrap 	 sales 	 and 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 on 	 full 	 r eceipt 	 of 	 sale 	 pr oceeds;
•	 Personal 	 Loans 	 comprises 	 income 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 unsecur ed 	 lending 	 pr oducts. 	 Inter est 	 r eceivable 	 on 	 unsecur ed 	 loans 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 as 	 inter est	
accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount; and
•	 Other 	 financial 	 services 	 comprise 	 r evenues 	 fr om 	 thir d 	 party 	 cheque 	 cashing, 	 for eign 	 exchange 	 income, 	 Buyback, 	 pr epaid 	 car d 	 and 	 other 	 income. 	 The 	
commission receivable on cheque cashing is recognised at the time of the transaction. Buyback revenue is recognised at the point of sale of the item 
back 	 to 	 the 	 customer . 	 For eign 	 exchange 	 income 	 r epr esents 	 the 	 commission 	 when 	 selling 	 or 	 buying 	 for eign 	 curr encies 	 and 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 at 	 the 	 point 	 of	
sale. Any other revenues are recognised on an accruals basis.
The Group recognises interest income arising on secured and unsecured lending within trading revenue rather than investment revenue on the basis that 
this represents most accurately the business activities of the Group.
The Group recognises revenue and bad debt expenses (both impairments and movements on allowance accounts) on pawnbroking, cheque cashing and other 
financial services on a portfolio approach. The Group considers that the bad debts arising on the loans and receivables balances are a function of the revenue 
earned due to the nature of the activities, and accordingly records the net amount of interest or commissions due and bad debt expenses within revenue. 
gRoss pRofit Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of inventory items sold or scrapped in the year.
otheR diReCt expenses
Other direct expenses comprise all expenses associated with the operation of the various shops and collection centre of the Group, including premises 
expenses, such as rent, rates, utilities and insurance, all staff costs and staff related costs for the relevant employees.
opeRating pRofit Operating profit is stated before investment income, finance costs, other gains and movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
eBitda EBITDA is defined as Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation. It is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortisation to the 
operating profit as follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
operating profit 7,518 6,217 
 
Depreciation and amortisation  3,218 3,470
Impairment — 99 
eBitDa 10,736 9,786
The Board considers EBITDA as a key measure of the Group’s financial performance.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  39  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
3. significant accounting Policies (continueD) 
RetiRement Benefit Costs The 	 Gr oup 	 operates 	 a 	 defined 	 contribution 	 pension 	 scheme 	 which 	 is 	 contracted 	 into 	 the 	 State 	 Scheme. 	 The 	 amount 	 charged 	 to 	 the 	 Consolidated 	
Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 pension 	 costs 	 and 	 other 	 post-r etir ement 	 benefits 	 is 	 the 	 contributions 	 payable 	 in 	 the 	 year . 	 Di f fer ences 	
between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
employee shaRe inCentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees (including directors). These payments are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant 	 by 	 use 	 of 	 a 	 Black-Scholes 	 model 	 or 	 a 	 Stochastic 	 model 	 depending 	 on 	 the 	 vesting 	 conditions 	 attached 	 to 	 each 	 scheme. 	 This 	 fair 	 value 	 cost 	 of 	 equity-
settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted 
for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. A corresponding credit is recorded in equity.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
dividends Dividends are provided for in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
4. critical accounting JuDgements anD Key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which  
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and 
future periods.
criticaL judgements in aPPL ying the grouP’s accounting PoLicies The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the directors have made  
in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements.
Revenue ReCognition Interest receivable on pawnbroking loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the percentage of the pawn loans that are estimated to be 
redeemed and the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. The estimated future cash receipts are based on the historical cash receipts 
experience 	 (the 	 “Pledge 	 Redemption”) 	 of 	 the 	 business 	 which 	 vary 	 fr om 	 month 	 to 	 month. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 monitors 	 the 	 Pledge 	 Redemption 	 on 	 a 	 monthly 	 basis.
The critical judgement is that the Group does not recognise interest income on the pawn loans that are not expected to be redeemed. The Group 
recognises income on these loans when the related collateral that supports the loan is disposed of, through either the scrap or retail operations of the 
Group. The Group is of the opinion that the revenue earned on the unredeemed pledges is only realised from the Group perspective at the point at which 
the inventory, or scrap item that the Group obtains from the pledge collateral is disposed of. In arriving at this treatment, the Group also considers that 
the transfer value from pawn loans to inventory of the unredeemed pledge collateral cannot exceed the cost to the Group of the inventory item which is 
represented by the underlying loan amount provided on the unredeemed pledge item.
inventoRies 
The majority of the inventory balance is obtained as a result of default by pawn loan customers. The inventory is stated at cost to the Group, being the 
amount initially lent on the pawn loan, plus overheads directly related to bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. 
The critical judgement is that the Group does not allocate any interest that would have been earned on the pawn loans to the cost of inventory. 
Accordingly, the profit that arises on the subsequent disposal of the inventory, through either retail or scrap, includes an element which relates to the 
appropriation by the Group of collaterals supporting pawn loans that have a higher market value, than the pawn loan amount. 
dilapidations pRovision All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification costs 
and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes aware of any 
significant amounts that will be required. The Group does not provide for amounts where the potential exposure cannot be reliably measured and 
accordingly does not anticipate potential repairs and maintenance on the portfolio of stores. Additionally, the Group maintains the stores to a high 
standard and completes any necessary repairs and maintenance on a timely basis, addressing any events that require expenditure throughout the lease 
period 	 as 	 and 	 when 	 r equir ed. 	 Such 	 costs 	 ar e 	 expensed 	 as 	 incurr ed. 40  I 40  I
4. critical accounting JuDgments anD Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continueD)
Key sources oF estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
p awnBRoking loans inteRest aCCRual estimation The Group recognises interest on pawnbroking loans as disclosed in the Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies section above. 
The 	 pawn 	 loans 	 inter est 	 accrual 	 (‘pledge 	 accrual’) 	 is 	 material 	 to 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 and 	 is 	 dependent 	 on 	 the 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 makes 	 of 	 the 	
expected level of redeemed pawn loans. The Group estimates the expected redemptions based on the historical redemption rates achieved. There is a risk 
that the actual redemption rate may vary significantly from the historical rate used to estimate the pledge accrual at the balance sheet date. The Directors 
assess the pledge accrual estimate made at the prior balance sheet date annually to determine if the actual redemption differs significantly to the previous 
estimate. No significant differences were noted for 2015 or 2014. The sensitivity of the pledge accrual to reasonable changes in the redemption rate is 
shown in note 26. 
impaiRment of goodwill and otheR intangiBles Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The 	 value 	 in 	 use 	 calculation 	 r equir es 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 to 	 estimate 	 the 	 futur e 	 cash 	 flows 	 expected 	 to 	 arise 	 fr om 	 the 	 cash-generating 	 unit 	 and 	 a 	 suitable 	 discount 	
rate in order to calculate present value. The review is conducted annually, in the final quarter of the year. The impairment review is conducted at the level 
of each cash generating unit, which for acquisitions represents the specific store or stores acquired.
There was no impairment loss recorded in the current year (2014: £99,000). The principal assumptions applied by management in arriving at the value  
in use of each cash generating unit are as follows:
1.	 The 	 Gr oup 	 pr epar es 	 cash 	 flow 	 for ecasts 	 over 	 a 	 five 	 year 	 period 	 for 	 each 	 cash 	 generating 	 unit, 	 as 	 disclosed 	 in 	 note 	 15. 	 The 	 year 	 one 	 cash 	 flows 	 
are derived from the most recent financial budget, the revenue was reduced by 5% in year 1 and a forecast growth rate applied for years 2 to 5.  
A constant gold price of £730 per troy ounce is assumed. A perpetuity is then calculated for periods thereafter.
2.	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 discounted 	 the 	 cash 	 flows 	 at 	 a 	 pr e-tax, 	 risk 	 adjusted 	 rate 	 of 	 10.26%.
While 	 the 	 impairment 	 r eview 	 has 	 been 	 conducted 	 based 	 on 	 the 	 best 	 available 	 estimates 	 at 	 the 	 impairment 	 r eview 	 date, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 notes 	 that 	 actual 	 events	
may vary from management expectation.
f aiR value of deRivatives The 	 dir ectors 	 use 	 their 	 judgement 	 in 	 selecting 	 an 	 appr opriate 	 valuation 	 technique 	 for 	 financial 	 instruments 	 not 	 quoted 	 in 	 an 	 active 	 market. 	 V aluation 	
techniques 	 commonly 	 used 	 by 	 market 	 practitioners 	 ar e 	 applied. 	 For 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments, 	 assumptions 	 ar e 	 made 	 based 	 on 	 quoted 	 market 	 rates 	
adjusted for specific features of the instrument. This requires estimation of the future interest rates, and also the appropriate discount rate. 
tRade ReCeivaBles pRovisioning Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less expected impairment losses. 
The impairment losses on the pledge book only relate to pledges seized by the police, shrinkage and our estimate of losses on pledges where the loan 
value exceeds the current market value. Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less expected impairment losses. The pledge book 
items seized by the police are impaired on an item by item basis since the Group tracks the status of each pledge individually. The shrinkage provision is 
based on an estimate of the pledge book missing at the reporting date using historical shrinkage experience. The provision for pledges where loan value 
exceeds the current market value is calculated on an item by item basis with an estimate used for the proportion of those items which will ultimately be 
disposed of through pawnbroking scrap.
No other impairment losses are provided on the pledge book since the value of the collaterals is greater than the pledge book nominal value.
The 	 impairment 	 of 	 a 	 Personal 	 Loan 	 is 	 based 	 on 	 historical 	 loss 	 experience 	 depending 	 on 	 the 	 level 	 of 	 arr ears 	 on 	 an 	 individual 	 account. 	 For 	 arr ears 	 of 	 0.5	
months up to one month a third of the remaining balance is impaired, for arrears of up to two months two-third of the remaining balance is impaired  
and for arrears of over two months, or where the loan is outstanding beyond the contractual due date, the whole remaining balance is impaired.
W ith 	 r espect 	 to 	 all 	 pr ovisions 	 that 	 ar e 	 based 	 on 	 estimates, 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 risk 	 that 	 actual 	 losses 	 incurr ed 	 will 	 vary 	 signi ficantly 	 fr om 	 management 	 expectation 	 
at the balance sheet date, if historical loss rates are not a good indicator of the actual credit risk profile of the year end receivables.
For 	 further 	 details 	 on 	 the 	 pr ovisions 	 and 	 impairment 	 losses, 	 r efer 	 to 	 note 	 26, 	 which 	 show 	 the 	 amounts 	 r ecor ded 	 in 	 the 	 period 	 and 	 the 	 sensitivity 	 at 	 the	
balance sheet date to changes in the key assumptions with respect to impairment losses.
inventoRies pRovisioning Wher e 	 necessary 	 pr ovision 	 is 	 made 	 for 	 obsolete, 	 slow 	 moving 	 and 	 damaged 	 inventory 	 or 	 inventory 	 shrinkage. 	 The 	 pr ovision 	 for 	 obsolete, 	 slow 	 moving	
and damaged inventory represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its market value. The inventory shrinkage provision is based on an 
estimate 	 of 	 the 	 inventory 	 missing 	 at 	 the 	 r eporting 	 date 	 using 	 historical 	 shrinkage 	 experience. 	 For 	 further 	 details 	 on 	 the 	 pr ovisions 	 for 	 inventory, 	 r efer	 
to note 7.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  41  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
5. revenue
an analysis of the gRoup’s Revenue is as follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
sales of goods  
Gold purchasing, retail, pawnbroking scrap 54,521 54,839
  
interest/commission earned  
Pawnbr oking, 	 cheque 	 cashing 	 and 	 other 	 financial 	 services	 34,723 32,857
group revenue 89,244 87,696
  
Investment revenues 1 1
total group revenue 89,245 87,697
Further 	 analysis 	 of 	 r evenue 	 by 	 segment 	 is 	 shown 	 in 	 note 	 6.
inCluded in the aBove Revenues aRe the following items of inCome and gains:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
income  
Interest earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 33,868 32,838
Fees 	 earned 	 on 	 financial 	 assets 	 not 	 designated 	 at 	 fair 	 value	 4,686 3,415
6. Business anD geograPhical segments
Business segments For 	 r eporting 	 purposes, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 curr ently 	 organised 	 into 	 six 	 segments 	 – 	 Pawnbr oking, 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing, 	 Retail, 	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap, 	 Personal 	 Loans 	 and	
Other services. 
The principal activities by segment are as follows:
p awnBRoking: 
Pawnbr oking 	 is 	 a 	 loan 	 secur ed 	 against 	 a 	 collateral 	 (the 	 pledge). 	 In 	 the 	 case 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 over 	 99% 	 of 	 the 	 collateral 	 against 	 which 	 amounts 	 ar e 	 lent	
comprises precious metals (predominantly gold), diamonds and watches. The pawnbroking contract is a six month credit agreement bearing a monthly 
interest rate of between 2% and 9.99%. The contract is governed by the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 2008 (previously the Consumer Credit Act 
2002). If the customer does not redeem the goods by repaying the secured loan before the end of the contract, the Group is required to dispose of the 
goods either through public auctions if the value of the pledge is over £75 (disposal proceeds being reported in this segment) or, if the value of the pledge 
is 	 £75 	 or 	 under , 	 thr ough 	 public 	 auctions 	 or 	 the 	 Retail 	 or 	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 activities 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
gold puRChasing: 
Jewellery 	 is 	 bought 	 dir ect 	 fr om 	 customers 	 thr ough 	 all 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 stor es. 	 The 	 transaction 	 is 	 simple 	 with 	 the 	 stor e 	 or 	 unit 	 agr eeing 	 a 	 price 	 with 	 the	
customer 	 and 	 pur chasing 	 the 	 goods 	 for 	 cash 	 on 	 the 	 spot. 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 r evenues 	 comprise 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 scrap 	 sales 	 on 	 goods 	 sour ced 	 fr om 	 the	
Group’s purchasing operations.
Retail: 
The Group’s retail proposition is primarily gold and jewellery and the majority of the retail sales are forfeited items from the pawnbroking pledge book or 
refurbished items from the Group’s gold purchasing operations. The retail offering is complemented with a small amount of new or second hand jewellery 
purchased from third parties by the Group.
p awnBRoking sCRap: 
Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 comprises 	 all 	 other 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 gold 	 scrap 	 sales 	 other 	 than 	 those 	 r eported 	 within 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing. 	 The 	 items 	 ar e 	 either 	 damaged	
beyond repair, are slow moving or surplus to the Group’s requirements, and are smelted and sold at the current gold spot price less a small commission.
peRsonal loans: 
Personal 	 Loans 	 comprises 	 income 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 unsecur ed 	 lending 	 activities. 	 Inter est 	 r eceivable 	 on 	 unsecur ed 	 loans 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 in 	 turnover 	 on 	 an	
accruals 	 basis 	 less 	 pr ovision 	 for 	 loans 	 not 	 expected 	 to 	 be 	 r epaid. 	 Personal 	 Loans 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 bad 	 debt 	 risk 	 which 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 inter est 	 rate 	 applied. 42  I 42  I
6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
Business segments (Continued)
otheR seR viCes: 
This segment comprises:
•	 Thir d 	 Party 	 Cheque 	 Encashment 	 which 	 is 	 the 	 pr ovision 	 of 	 cash 	 in 	 exchange 	 for 	 a 	 cheque 	 payable 	 to 	 our 	 customer 	 for 	 a 	 commission 	 fee 	 based 	 on 	 the	
face value of the cheque.
•	 Buyback 	 which 	 is 	 a 	 service 	 wher e 	 items 	 ar e 	 pur chased 	 fr om 	 customers, 	 typically 	 high 	 end 	 electr onics, 	 and 	 may 	 be 	 bought 	 back 	 up 	 to 	 31 	 days 	 later 	 for	
a fee.
•	 The 	 For eign 	 Exchange 	 curr ency 	 service 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 earns 	 a 	 commission 	 when 	 selling 	 or 	 buying 	 for eign 	 curr encies.
•	 W estern 	 Union 	 commission 	 earned 	 on 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 money 	 transfer 	 service.
•	 The 	 Pr epaid 	 debit 	 car d 	 pr oduct 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 earns 	 a 	 commission 	 when 	 selling 	 the 	 car d 	 or 	 when 	 the 	 customer 	 is 	 topping 	 up 	 their 	 car d.
Cheque 	 Cashing 	 is 	 subject 	 to 	 bad 	 debt 	 risk 	 which 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 commissions 	 and 	 fees 	 applied.
Further 	 details 	 on 	 each 	 activity 	 ar e 	 included 	 in 	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review 	 on 	 pages 	 11 	 to 	 14.	
Segment 	 information 	 about 	 these 	 businesses 	 is 	 pr esented 	 below:
       consolidated
  gold  Pawnbroking Personal other for the year   
 Pawnbroking Purchasing retail scrap loans services ended 2015
2015 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
revenue
External sales 28,437 15,260 29,543 9,718 2,389 3,897 89,244
Total revenue 28,437 15,260 29,543 9,718 2,389 3,897 89,244
segment result – gross profit 28,437 2,297 10,326 116 2,389 3,897 47,462
Other direct expenses       (31,968)
Administrative expenses       (7,976)
operating profit       7,518
Investment revenues       1
Finance 	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (679)
Profit before taxation       6,840
Tax charge on profit        (1,462)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income     5,378
       Consolidated
	 	 Gold	 	 Pawnbr oking	 Personal	 Other	 For 	 the 	 year 	 	
	 Pawnbr oking	 Pur chasing	 Retail	 Scrap	 Loans	 Services	 ended 	 2014
2014 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
revenue
External sales 28,393 13,325 30,894 10,620 1,780 2,684 87,696
Total revenue 28,393 13,325 30,894 10,620 1,780 2,684 87,696
segment result – gross profit 28,393 2,387 10,677 (244) 1,780 2,684 45,677
Other direct expenses       (31,627)
Administrative expenses       (7,833)
operating profit       6,217
Investment revenues       1
Finance 	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (708)
Profit before taxation       5,510
Tax charge on profit        (1,255)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income     4,255
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  43  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
Business segments (Continued)
As disclosed in note 3, Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of inventory items sold or scrapped in the period. 
Other operating expenses of the stores are included in other direct expenses. The Group is unable to meaningfully allocate the other direct expenses 
of operating the stores between segments as the activities are conducted from the same stores, utilising the same assets and staff. The Group is also 
unable to meaningfully allocate Group administrative expenses, or financing costs or income between the segments. Accordingly, the Group is unable to 
meaningfully 	 disclose 	 an 	 allocation 	 of 	 items 	 included 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 below 	 Gr oss 	 pr ofit, 	 which 	 r epr esents 	 the 	
reported segment results. 
The Group does not apply any inter-segment charges when items are transferred between the pawnbroking activity and the retail or scrap activities.
    Pawn-   unallocated consolidated
 Pawn- gold  broking Personal other assets/ for the year
 broking Purchasing retail scrap loans services (liabilities) ended
 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015
2015 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
other information        
Capital additions (*)       1,173 1,173
Depreciation and 
 amortisation (*)       3,218 3,218
        
Balance sheet        
assets        
Segment 	 assets	 44,548	 406	 24,811	 231	 4,152	 —	 	 74,148
Unallocated
 corporate assets       35,864 35,864
Consolidated 
 total assets        114,403
liabilities        
Segment 	 liabilities	 —	 —	 (634)	 —	 —	 (215)	 	 (849)
Unallocated corporate
 liabilities       (19,494) (19,494)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (20,343)
	 	 	 	 Pawn-	 	 	 Unallocated	 Consolidated
	 Pawn-	 Gold	 	 br oking	 Personal	 Other	 assets/	 For 	 the 	 year
	 br oking	 Pur chasing	 Retail	 Scrap	 Loans	 Services	 (liabilities)	 ended
 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014
2014 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
other information        
Capital additions (*)       1,007 1,007
Depreciation 
 and impairment (*)       3,569 3,569
        
Balance sheet        
assets        
Segment 	 assets	 43,888	 473	 28,749	 278	 3,129	 —	 	 76,517
Unallocated
 corporate assets       35,324 35,324
Consolidated 
 total assets        116,417
liabilities        
Segment 	 liabilities	 —	 —	 (640)	 —	 —	 (212)	 	 (852)
Unallocated corporate
 liabilities       (24,702) (24,702)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (25,554)
(*)  The Group cannot meaningfully allocate this information by segment due to the fact that all the  segments operate from the same stores and the assets 
in use are common to all segments. 44  I 44  I
6. Business anD geograPhical segments (continueD)
geogRaphiCal segments
The Group’s operations are located entirely in the United Kingdom and all sales are within the United Kingdom. Accordingly, no further geographical 
segments analysis is presented.
majoR CustomeRs Included 	 in 	 r evenues 	 arising 	 fr om 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 and 	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 segments 	 ar e 	 r evenues 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 largest 	 customer 	 of 	 £21,214,000	
(2014: £21,740,000) and from its second largest customer of £1,863,000 (2014: £1,314,000), which makes more that 10% of the total revenue. These 
customers are bullion houses involved in the processing of the Group’s scrap gold.
7. Profit Before taxation
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Profit before taxation has been arrived at after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment reported within: 
– Other direct expenses 2,799 3,012
– Administrative expenses 98 75
Amortisation of intangible assets (reported within Other direct expenses) 321 383
Impairment — 99
Loss 	 on 	 disposal 	 of 	 pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 75 181
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 41,102 41,299 
W rite 	 downs 	 of 	 inventories 	 r ecognised 	 as 	 an 	 expense	 680 720 
Staf f 	 costs 	 (see 	 note 	 9)	 20,922 19,883 
Impairment 	 loss 	 r ecognised 	 /(r eleased) 	 on 	 pawnbr oking 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 138 (61) 
Pr ovision 	 r ecognised/(r eleased) 	 on 	 pawnbr oking 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 8 (305) 
Impairment loss recognised on personal loans financial assets (*) 3,429 2,250 
Pr ovision 	 r ecognised 	 on 	 personal 	 loans 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 342 376 
Impairment loss recognised on other services financial assets (*) 292 206 
Pr ovision 	 r eleased 	 on 	 other 	 services 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 (10) (7)
(*) As discussed in note 3, due to the portfolio approach adopted for recognising revenue, these amounts are recorded against revenue from the related 
segment to present net revenues as shown in notes 5 and 6.
Although the Group has written off, or provided for some of the financial assets in the current and previous periods, the Group continues to seek recovery 
of 	 these 	 assets. 	 For 	 further 	 analysis 	 on 	 the 	 movements 	 in 	 allowances, 	 and 	 amounts 	 written 	 of f, 	 see 	 note 	 26.
8. auDitor’s remuneration
The 	 analysis 	 of 	 auditor’ s 	 r emuneration, 	 exclusive 	 of 	 V A T , 	 is 	 as 	 follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s annual financial statements  45 42
  
fees payable to the company’s auditor for other services to the group 
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 45 45
Total audit fees 90 87
– Tax services 13 13
– Other services 17	—
Total non-audit fees 30 13
The 	 Company 	 and 	 Gr oup 	 audit 	 fees 	 ar e 	 borne 	 by 	 a 	 subsidiary 	 undertaking, 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited.	
Fees 	 payable 	 to 	 Deloitte 	 LLP 	 and 	 their 	 associates 	 for 	 non-audit 	 services 	 to 	 the 	 Company 	 ar e 	 not 	 r equir ed 	 to 	 be 	 disclosed 	 because 	 the 	 consolidated 	 financial 	
statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
There were no fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  45  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
9.  information regarDing Directors anD emPloyees
non-exeCutive diReCtoRs’ emoluments 
3 (2014: 3) Non-Executive Directors receive payments for services rendered to the H&T Group plc group. Their emoluments are included in the analysis 
below. 
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments 598 585
Amounts gained under long term incentive scheme — 73
Company pension contributions to money purchase schemes 42 41
 640 699
All 	 Executive 	 Dir ectors 	 during 	 the 	 year 	 (2014: 	 all) 	 participated 	 in 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited’ s 	 money 	 pur chase 	 pension 	 scheme. 	 In 	 addition, 	 £54,000	
(2014: 	 £149,000) 	 was 	 charged 	 to 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 shar e 	 options 	 and 	 conditional	
shares granted to the directors under the different schemes. None (2014: None) of the directors exercised options over shares in the Company in the year, 
None (2014: Two) of the directors were granted shares under the long term incentive scheme.
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
highest paid director  
Aggregate emoluments 256 252
Company pension contributions to money purchase scheme 24 24
In 	 addition, 	 £27,000 	 (2014: 	 £75,000) 	 was 	 charged 	 to 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 shar e	
options and conditional shares granted under the different schemes.
 2015  2014
 no.  No.
monthly average number of persons employed (including directors)   
Branches 953 907
Administration 100 94
 1,053 1,001
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
staff costs during the year (including directors)  
W ages 	 and 	 salaries	 18,860 17,831
Shar e 	 option 	 expense 	 (note 	 28)	 104 249
Social 	 security 	 costs	 1,620 1,479
Other pension costs  338 324
 20,922 19,883
All 	 dir ectors 	 and 	 employees 	 ar e 	 r emunerated 	 thr ough 	 a 	 subsidiary 	 Gr oup 	 company. 	 The 	 dir ectors 	 of 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited, 	 the 	 trading 	 subsidiary,	
are the key management personnel of the Group, none are female. 46  I 46  I
10. investment revenues
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
interest revenue:  
Bank deposits 1 1
Investment revenues earned on financial assets (analysed by category of asset) is as follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Loans 	 and 	 r eceivables 	 (including 	 cash 	 and 	 bank 	 balances)	 1 1
Interest revenue recognised on pawnbroking and other financial services is reported within turnover for the reasons discussed in note 3.
11. finance costs
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Interest on bank loans 524 554
Other interest 2 1
Amortisation of debt issue costs 153 153
Total interest expense 679 708
12. tax charge on Profit
(a)  t ax on pRofit on oRdinaR y aCtivities 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax charge at 20.3% (2014: 21.5%) based on the profit for the year 1,549 1,070
Adjustments in respect of prior years (72) (12)
Total current tax 1,477 1,058
Deferred tax  
Timing differences, origination and reversal 21 88
Adjustments in respect of prior years (36) 83
Effects of change in tax rate — 26
Total deferred tax (note 24) (15) 197
tax charge on profit  1,462 1,255
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  47  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
12.  tax charge on Profit (continueD)
(B)  f aCtoRs affeCting the tax ChaRge foR the yeaR
The tax assessed for the year is higher than that resulting from applying a blended standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.3% (2014: 21.5%). 
The differences are explained below:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit 	 befor e 	 taxation	 6,840 5,510
Tax charge on profit at standard rate 1,389 1,185
  
Effects of:  
 Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income (49) (63)
 Non-qualifying depreciation 117 100
 Effect of change in tax rate — 26
 Movement in short term timing differences 113 (64)
 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods  (108) 71
total actual amount of tax charge 1,462 1,255
In 	 addition 	 to 	 the 	 amount 	 charged 	 to 	 the 	 income 	 statement 	 and 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 IAS 	 12, 	 the 	 excess 	 of 	 curr ent 	 and 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 over 	 and 	 above 	 the	
r elative 	 r elated 	 cumulative 	 r emuneration 	 expense 	 under 	 IFRS 	 2 	 has 	 been 	 r ecognised 	 dir ectly 	 in 	 equity. 	 This 	 amounted 	 to 	 a 	 charge 	 to 	 equity 	 in 	 the 	 curr ent	
period of £nil (2014: £nil).
13. earnings Per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
For 	 diluted 	 earnings 	 per 	 shar e, 	 the 	 weighted 	 average 	 number 	 of 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 in 	 issue 	 is 	 adjusted 	 to 	 assume 	 conversion 	 of 	 all 	 dilutive 	 potential 	 or dinary	
shar es. 	 W ith 	 r espect 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 these 	 r epr esent 	 shar e 	 options 	 and 	 conditional 	 shar es 	 granted 	 to 	 employees 	 wher e 	 the 	 exer cise 	 price 	 is 	 less 	 than 	 the	
average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Reconciliations of the earnings per ordinary share and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: 
 year ended 31 December 2015  Year ended 31 December 2014
  weighted	 	 	 W eighted
  average Per-share	 	 average	 Per -shar e
 earnings number of amount Earnings number of amount
 £’000 shares  pence £’000 shares  pence
earnings per share basic 5,379 36,154,799 14.88 4,255 36,124,298 11.78
effect of dilutive securities      
Options and conditional shares — 34,805 (0.02) —	 —	 —
earnings per share diluted 5,379 36,189,604 14.86 4,255 36,124,298 11.78
14. DiviDenDs
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
Final 	 dividend 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2014 	 of 	 2.7 	 pence 	 (2013 	 – 	 2.7p) 	 per 	 shar e	 995 995
  
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.5 pence (2014 – 2.1p) per share 1,290 774
 2,285 1,769
amounts proposed and not recognised:  
Pr oposed 	 final 	 dividend 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 of 	 4.5p 	 (2014 	 –2.7p) 	 per 	 shar e	 1,659 995
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly, has not been included as a liability in 
these financial statements. 48  I 48  I
15. gooDwill
  goodwill
 goodwill arising
 arising on on trade
 purchase of and asset total
 subsidiaries purchases goodwill
 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost and carrying amount   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 14,133	 3,605	 17,738
Impairment 	 	 —	 (31)	 (31)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 14,133	 3,574	 17,707
At 31 December 2015 14,133 3,574 17,707
There are no recognised impairment losses at 31 December 2015.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated as follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited	 14,133 14,133
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2005	 213 213
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2006	 553 553
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2007	 1,516 1,516
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2008	 391 391
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2010	 19 19
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2011	 48 48
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2012	 679 679
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2013	 155 155
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2014	 —	—
Stor es 	 acquir ed 	 in 	 2015	 —	—
 17,707 17,707
The Group considers that the CGUs have indefinite useful lives as the Group is a significant operator in a well-established business together with the 
proven and long term demand for the Group’s services.
The 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Ltd 	 CGU 	 was 	 cr eated 	 when 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 acquir ed 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 in 	 September 	 2004. 	 Management 	 is 	 unable	
to 	 allocate 	 this 	 goodwill 	 by 	 stor e 	 and 	 accor dingly, 	 tests 	 this 	 for 	 impairment 	 at 	 the 	 subsidiary 	 entity 	 level. 	 All 	 assets 	 acquir ed 	 after 	 September 	 2004 	 ar e	
reviewed for impairment at the related store level. The stores are grouped for financial reporting purposes by year of acquisition to facilitate presentation 
and comparability on a year by year basis. Additionally, store performance is monitored by management based on the year of acquisition as the historic 
performance 	 of 	 an 	 individual 	 stor e 	 is 	 linked 	 to 	 its 	 acquisition 	 date. 	 This 	 appr oach 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 way 	 management 	 has 	 pr esented 	 the 	 above 	 CGUs. 	
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The impairment review was 
conducted as described in note 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  49  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
16. other intangiBle assets
  customer
 software relationships total
 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 1,675	 2,446	 4,121
Additions	 —	 18	 18
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 1,675	 2,464	 4,139
Additions	 —	 17	 17
At 31 December 2015 1,675 2,481 4,156
amortisation   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 1,410	 1,311	 2,721
Charge for the year 67 316 383
Impairment	 —	 9	 9
Impairment 	 r eversal	 —	 (30)	 (30)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 1,477	 1,606	 3,083
Charge for the year 67 254 321
At 31 December 2015 1,544 1,860 3,404
carrying amount    
At 31 December 2015 131 621 752
At 31 December 2014 198 858 1,056
The customer relationships intangible assets arise from the acquisition of trade and assets of sole partnerships or limited companies with no audited 
financial 	 statements 	 and 	 r eflect 	 the 	 r epeat 	 business 	 associated 	 with 	 the 	 pawnbr oking 	 and 	 pay 	 day 	 advance 	 industry 	 fr om 	 existing 	 customers 	 at 	 the 	
acquisition date of the relevant assets. 
The amortisation period for customer relationship intangible assets is between 6 and 8 years and the amortisation period for software intangible assets  
is 	 7 	 years. 	 These 	 amortisation 	 periods 	 r eflect 	 the 	 dir ectors’ 	 best 	 estimate 	 of 	 the 	 estimated 	 useful 	 economic 	 lives 	 of 	 these 	 intangible 	 assets. 50  I 50  I
17. ProPerty, Plant anD equiPment
 short long   fixtures
 leasehold leasehold motor computer and 
 premises premises vehicles equipment fittings total
 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
cost or valuation      
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 23,289	 211	 9	 3,897	 4,466	 31,872
Additions	 727	 —	 13	 115	 134	 989
Disposals	 (396)	 —	 —	 (20)	 (36)	 (452)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 23,620	 211	 22	 3,992	 4,564	 32,409
Additions	 490	 —	 —	 463	 203	 1,156
Disposals	 (370)	 —	 —	 (35)	 (23)	 (428)
At 31 December 2015 23,740 211 22 4,420 4,744 33,137
accumulated depreciation 
 and impairment      
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 13,374	 66	 1	 3,369	 2,740	 19,550
Charge for the year 2,476 25 5 230 351 3,087
Disposals	 (237)	 —	 —	 (18)	 (16)	 (271)
Impairment	 89	 —	 —	 —	 —	 89
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 15,702	 91	 6	 3,581	 3,075	 22,455
Charge for the year 2,340 26 5 201 325 2,897
Disposals	 (300)	 —	 —	 (35)	 (18)	 (353)
At 31 December 2015 17,742 117 11 3,747 3,382 24,999
carrying amount      
At 31 December 2015 5,998 94 11 673 1,362 8,138
At 31 December 2014 7,918 120 16 411 1,489 9,954
Capital commitments for tangible and intangible assets are disclosed in note 32.
18. suBsiDiaries
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note C to the 
Company’s separate financial statements.
19. inventories
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Retail and scrap inventory 24,802 29,271
Of the retail and scrap inventory, approximately 97.22% represents gold, jewellery and watch items. The remaining balance is miscellaneous items (mostly 
electrical goods and art pieces) which were previously held as pledge collaterals and subsequently forfeited.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  51  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
20. traDe anD other receivaBles
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Trade receivables 42,525 40,970
Other receivables 250 217
Pledge 	 accrued 	 income	 6,255 6,067
Pr epayments 	 and 	 other 	 accrued 	 income	 1,863 2,169
 50,893 49,423
Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of impairment.
otheR CuRRent assets
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Other current assets 646 229
Other current assets represent Buyback inventory, where the Company holds items for 31 days in order for customers to re-purchase their items.
21. cash anD cash equivalents
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 10,923 8,250
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Further 	 details 	 on 	 financial 	 instruments, 	 including 	 the 	 associated 	 risks 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 allowances 	 for 	 bad 	 and 	 doubtful 	 debts 	 and 	 fair 	 values, 	 is 	 pr ovided 	
in note 26.
22. traDe anD other P ayaBles
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Trade payables 1,420 1,505
Other taxation and social security costs 500 533
Accruals and deferred income 3,562 4,015
 5,482 6,053
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade 
pur chases 	 is 	 30 	 days 	 (2014: 	 29 	 days). 	 For 	 most 	 suppliers 	 no 	 inter est 	 is 	 charged 	 on 	 the 	 trade 	 payables 	 for 	 the 	 first 	 30 	 days 	 fr om 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 the 	 invoice. 	
Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure 
that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Current tax liabilities 645 328 52  I 52  I
23. Borrowings
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
secured borrowing at amortised cost  
Bank loans and overdrafts — 1,925
Unamortised issue costs —	—
total borrowings due for settlement within one year — 1,925
Long 	 term 	 portion 	 of 	 bank 	 loan	 13,000 16,000
Unamortised issue costs (89) (242)
amount due for settlement after more than one year 12,911 15,758
The 	 Gr oup’ s 	 borr owings 	 thr oughout 	 2015 	 wer e 	 pr ovided 	 by 	 Lloyds 	 Bank 	 plc 	 under 	 a 	 four 	 year 	 Cr edit 	 Agr eement 	 signed 	 on 	 30 	 January 	 2013. 	 This 	 facility	
allowed for maximum borrowings of £50m, with a margin of between 1.25% and 2.25% dependent on leverage ratios.
This 	 facility 	 was 	 due 	 to 	 expir e 	 on 	 30 	 January 	 2017. 	 T o 	 r emove 	 any 	 near 	 term 	 financing 	 risk 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 has, 	 post 	 year -end, 	 r efinanced 	 the 	 facility 	 with 	 Lloyds 	
Bank plc.
The key terms of the new facility are:
key teRm desCRiption 
T otal 	 Facility 	 Size	 £30m
 
Termination Date 30 April 2020
 
Utilisation The facility is available to be drawn down to the full £30m so long as the Company remains compliant with leverage 
and interest cover ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Margin	 The 	 facility 	 has 	 an 	 inter est 	 calculation 	 of 	 LIBOR 	 plus 	 a 	 margin 	 of 	 between 	 1.75% 	 and 	 2.75%, 	 dependent 	 on 	 ratios 	 as	
stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Inter est 	 Payable	 Inter est 	 due 	 on 	 the 	 loans 	 is 	 payable 	 at 	 each 	 inter est 	 period 	 end.	 
Interest amounts outstanding at the year-end are included in accruals.
 
Fixed 	 Repayments	 No 	 capital 	 r epayments 	 prior 	 to 	 termination 	 date.
defeRRed deBt issue Costs Ther e 	 wer e 	 £153,000 	 of 	 deferr ed 	 debt 	 issue 	 costs 	 written 	 of f 	 in 	 the 	 period 	 to 	 P&L 	 (2014: 	 £153,000).
seCuRity The 	 facility 	 is 	 secur ed 	 by 	 a 	 fixed 	 and 	 floating 	 charge 	 over 	 various 	 assets 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
undRawn BoRRowing faCilities At 31 December 2015, the Company had available £37,000,000 (2014: £32,075,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met. The refinancing has reduced the available headroom by £20,000,000 at the point of the refinancing.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  53  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
24. DeferreD tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year.
 Property, Plant hold over short term share Derivative
 and equipment  capital timing based financial 
 differences gain differences payment instruments total
 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 30	 (142)	 703	 133	 —	 724
Debit 	 to 	 income	 (83)	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (83)
Debit/(Cr edit) 	 to 	 equity	 200	 12	 (397)	 71	 —	 (114)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 147	 (130)	 306	 204	 —	 527
Prior 	 year 	 adjustment	 36	 —	 —	 —	 —	 36
Debit/(Cr edit) 	 to 	 income	 83	 4	 (13)	 (95)	 —	 (21)
As 	 31 	 December 	 2015	 266	 (126)	 293	 109	 —	 542
Deferred tax assets and liabilities all relate to the same tax jurisdiction and taxable entities, and are expected to reverse over the same time periods. 
Accordingly, these have been offset in the balance sheet.
The 	 Finance 	 (No 	 2) 	 Act 	 2015, 	 which 	 pr ovides 	 for 	 r eductions 	 in 	 the 	 main 	 rate 	 of 	 corporation 	 tax 	 fr om 	 20% 	 to 	 19% 	 ef fective 	 fr om 	 1 	 April 	 2017 	 and 	 to 	 18%	
ef fective 	 fr om 	 1 	 April 	 2020, 	 was 	 substantively 	 enacted 	 on 	 26 	 October 	 2015. 	 These 	 rate 	 r eductions 	 have 	 been 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 calculation 	 of 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 at 	
the balance sheet date.
The 	 closing 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 asset 	 as 	 at 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 has 	 been 	 calculated 	 at 	 19% 	 r eflecting 	 the 	 tax 	 rate 	 at 	 which 	 the 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 asset 	 is 	 expected 	 to 	 be 	
utilised in future periods.
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 futur e 	 rate 	 change 	 to 	 18% 	 would 	 further 	 r educe 	 our 	 UK 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 asset 	 r ecognised 	 at 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 fr om 	 £542,000 	 to	
£513,000. The actual impact will be dependent on our deferred tax position at that time.
The utilisation of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary 
difference.
25. Provisions
 Provision for dilapidation 
 and onerous leases
 £’000
 
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 1,158
Additional provision 592
Pr ovision 	 utilised 	 in 	 the 	 year	 (260)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 1,490
Released provision (18)
Pr ovision 	 utilised 	 in 	 the 	 year	 (167)
At 31 December 2015 1,305
The dilapidation provision represents management’s best estimate of the Company’s liability to repair and maintain certain of the properties contracted 
under operating lease agreements and settled at the individual lease end dates. At the reporting date no demand to enforce the dilapidation contractual 
obligations has been made by the related property landlords.
Pr ovisions 	 for 	 oner ous 	 leases 	 ar e 	 r ecognised 	 when 	 the 	 Company 	 believes 	 that 	 the 	 unavoidable 	 costs 	 of 	 meeting 	 the 	 lease 	 obligations 	 exceed 	 the 	 economic	
benefits expected to be received under the lease. 54  I 54  I
26. financial instruments
The 	 Gr oup’ s 	 financial 	 assets 	 and 	 liabilities, 	 as 	 defined 	 under 	 IAS 	 39, 	 and 	 their 	 estimated 	 fair 	 values 	 ar e 	 as 	 follows:
 fair value  financial
 through  liabilities at Book fair
 profit loans and amortised value value
 or loss receivables cost total total
at 31 December 2015 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
financial assets     
Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 44,548	 —	 44,548	 45,954
Cheque 	 cashing 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Other 	 financial 	 services 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 4,152	 —	 4,152	 4,152
Other 	 assets	 —	 363	 —	 363	 363
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents	 —	 10,923	 —	 10,923	 10,923
financial liabilities     
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 —	 —	 (5,233)	 (5,233)	 (5,233)
Borr owings 	 due 	 within 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Borr owings 	 due 	 mor e 	 than 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (12,911)	 (12,911)	 (12,911)
net financial assets/(liabilities) 	 —	 59,986	 (18,144)	 41,842	 43,248
	 Fair 	 value	 	 Financial
	 thr ough	 	 liabilities 	 at	 Book	 Fair
	 pr ofit	 Loans 	 and	 amortised	 value	 value
 or loss receivables cost total total
At 31 December 2014 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
financial assets     
Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 43,888	 —	 43,888	 45,698
Cheque 	 cashing 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Other 	 financial 	 services 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 3,129	 —	 3,129	 3,129
Other 	 assets	 —	 256	 —	 256	 256
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents	 —	 8,250	 —	 8,250	 8,250
financial liabilities     
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 —	 —	 (6,130)	 (6,130)	 (6,130)
Borr owings 	 due 	 mor e 	 than 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (1,925)	 (1,925)	 (1,925)
Borr owings 	 due 	 mor e 	 than 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (15,758)	 (15,758)	 (15,758)
net financial assets/(liabilities) 	 —	 55,523	 (23,813)	 31,710	 33,520
f aiR value The assumptions used by the Group to estimate the current fair values are summarised below:
(i)	 For 	 trade 	 r eceivables 	 r elating 	 to 	 Pawnbr oking, 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 has 	 been 	 calculated 	 by 	 adding:
•	 The 	 principal 	 outstanding 	 on 	 pawn 	 loans;	
•	 The 	 inter est 	 r eceivable 	 accrued 	 using 	 the 	 ef fective 	 inter est 	 rate 	 method 	 based 	 on 	 assumed 	 r edemption; 	 and
•	 Assumed 	 scrap 	 pr ofits 	 on 	 the 	 pr oportion 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 pledge 	 book 	 that 	 is 	 not 	 expected 	 to 	 be 	 r edeemed, 	 i.e. 	 those 	 loans 	 upon 	 which 	 the 	 Gr oup 	
does not recognise interest due to the uncertainty of recovery.
(ii) Other trade receivables and other assets are considered to have fair values which are the same as their book values due to the short period over 
which they will be recovered. Book values for both cheque cashing and financial services trade receivables are calculated net of provisions, and hence 
represent the Group’s best estimate of recovery values based upon recent debt collections experience.
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents are all held on interest bearing bank accounts are considered to have a fair value the same as their book value. 
(iv)	 For 	 borr owings 	 and 	 trade 	 and 	 other 	 payables, 	 the 	 book 	 value 	 appr oximates 	 to 	 fair 	 value 	 because 	 of 	 their 	 short 	 maturities 	 and 	 inter est 	 rates 	 wher e	
applicable. 	 None 	 of 	 the 	 trade 	 or 	 other 	 payables 	 ar e 	 inter est 	 bearing. 	 The 	 borr owings 	 ar e 	 all 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 inter est 	 rates 	 which 	 appr oximate 	 market 	
rates, and accordingly, the book value and fair value are the same.
The fair value of the pawnbroking trade receivables is determined using a model where the inputs are derived from historical trends monitored by the 
Gr oup. 	 This 	 valuation 	 ther efor e 	 falls 	 within 	 level 	 3 	 of 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 hierar chy 	 in 	 IAS 	 39. 	 The 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 all 	 other 	 financial 	 instruments 	 is 	 equivalent 	 to 	 their 	
book value due to their short maturities.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  55  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
26. financial instruments (continueD)
finanCial Risks The Group monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the financial instruments held. The principal risks include credit risk on financial assets, and 
liquidity and interest rate risk on financial liability borrowings. The key risks are analysed below.
CRedit Risk PawnbroKing trade receivabLes The Group is exposed to credit risk through customers defaulting on their loans. The key mitigant to this risk is the requirement for the borrower to provide 
security (the pledge) in entering a pawnbroking contract. The security acts to minimise credit risk as a customer’s pledge becomes the property of the 
pawnbroker on default of the loan. 
In addition to holding security, the Group further mitigates credit risk by:
i) Applying strict lending criteria to all pawn loans:
Pledges 	 ar e 	 rigor ously 	 tested 	 and 	 appr opriately 	 valued. 	 In 	 all 	 cases 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 lending 	 policy 	 is 	 applied, 	 the 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 pledge 	 items 	 is 	 in 	 excess 	 of	
the pawn loan.
The Group estimates that the current fair value of the security is equal to the current book value. 
ii)	 Seeking 	 to 	 impr ove 	 r edemption 	 ratios:
For 	 existing 	 customers, 	 loan 	 history 	 and 	 r epayment 	 pr ofiles 	 ar e 	 factor ed 	 into 	 the 	 loan 	 making 	 decision. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 a 	 high 	 customer 	 r etention 	 ratio 	 and 	
all customers are offered high customer service levels.
A 	 1% 	 incr ease / (decr ease) 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 r edemption 	 ratio 	 is 	 estimated 	 to 	 impact 	 the 	 pr e-tax 	 pr ofit 	 by 	 £53,000 / (£74,000). 	 This 	 does 	 not 	 account 	 for 	 lost 	
repeat business however, and as such the Group sees more value in retaining a high redemption ratio.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to risk in recovery of the loan amounts, which is considered to be similar to credit risk, due to:
(i) assets being pledged as security against loans, which are subsequently seized by the police; and
(ii) assets being pledged as security against loans which are subsequently lost or stolen, resulting in the borrower being relieved of the liability to the 
Group.
The legal title that the Group can enforce on these items, and their ongoing security are therefore vital to the Group to ensure that the credit risk is 
mitigated to an acceptable level. The Group continually reviews and monitors, at both store and at Board level, its internal controls to ensure the adequacy 
of the pledged items. The key aspects of this are:
•	 Appr opriate 	 details 	 ar e 	 kept 	 on 	 all 	 customers 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 transacts 	 with;
•	 All 	 pawn 	 contracts 	 comply 	 with 	 the 	 Consumer 	 Cr edit 	 Act 	 2006;
•	 Appr opriate 	 physical 	 security 	 measur es 	 ar e 	 in 	 place 	 to 	 pr otect 	 pledged 	 items; 	 and
•	 An 	 internal 	 audit 	 department 	 monitors 	 compliance 	 with 	 policies 	 at 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 stor es.
The 	 Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables 	 ar e 	 disclosed 	 net 	 of 	 the 	 pr ovision 	 for 	 bad 	 and 	 doubtful 	 debts 	 associated 	 with 	 these 	 financial 	 assets, 	 including 	 full 	
provision on assets notified to the Group by the police as frozen assets. The movement in the provision is as follows:
 £’000
 
Balance 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 993
 
Net 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 charge	 (366)
W ritten 	 of f	 61
Balance at 31 December 2014 688
 
Net 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 charge 	 	 146
W ritten 	 of f	 (138)
Balance at 31 December 2015 696 56  I 56  I
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued)
26. financial instruments (continueD)
CRedit Risk (Continued)
PawnbroKing trade receivabLes (continued)
The ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
0 – 90 days 6,295 5,949
Over 90 days 2,195 1,773
Total 8,490 7,722
The Group has not provided for the £8,490,000 (2014: £7,722,000) contractually overdue receivables (i.e. loans where the pawn agreement has 
terminated but the customer has not redeemed the assets) at the reporting date since the realisable value of the security held is greater than the carrying 
value of the pledge loan as disclosed above. The Group does not start the disposition process of the unredeemed pledges until three months after the end 
of the credit agreement since it is commercial practice to allow additional time for the customers to redeem their pledged items, for an additional fee. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £44,548,000 (2014: £43,888,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts offset and any 
impairment losses.
other trade receivabLes This class represents amounts recoverable by the Group through receivables arising from the other financial services activities it engages in, and is 
exposed 	 to 	 cr edit 	 risk 	 thr ough 	 default 	 on 	 the 	 loan 	 amounts 	 for 	 Personal 	 Loans, 	 or 	 default 	 fr om 	 the 	 drawer 	 for 	 Thir d 	 Party 	 Cheque 	 Encashment. 	 On 	 each	
product the Group employs appropriate policies to mitigate the credit risk including credit checks, obtaining legal security provided and appropriate staff 
recruitment and training policies. The Group monitors the ongoing risk associated with this class of financial assets through a continual review of bad 
debts, modifications to the lending policy, and internal audit activities. In the event of default by the customer, the Group has also developed a debt 
collection department to recover any outstanding debt. 
Personal 	 Loans 	 and 	 Other 	 Services 	 r eceivables 	 ar e 	 disclosed 	 net 	 of 	 pr ovisions 	 for 	 bad 	 and 	 doubtful 	 debts, 	 an 	 analysis 	 of 	 which 	 is 	 as 	 follows:	
 Personal loans other services total
 £’000 £’000  £’000
Balance 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 651	 34	 685
   
Net 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 charge 	 	 2,626	 (1,358)	 1,268
W ritten 	 of f	 (2,250)	 1,351	 (899)
Balance at 31 December 2014 1,027 27 1,054
   
Net 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income 	 charge 	 	 3,771	 (2,534)	 1,237
W ritten 	 of f	 (3,429)	 2,524	 (905)
Balance at 31 December 2015 1,369 17 1,386
Trade receivables not overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. 
cash and cash equivaLents The 	 cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 balance 	 comprises 	 both 	 bank 	 balances 	 and 	 cash 	 floats 	 at 	 the 	 stor es. 	 The 	 bank 	 balances 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 very 	 limited 	 cr edit 	 risk 	
as 	 they 	 ar e 	 held 	 with 	 banking 	 institutions 	 with 	 high 	 cr edit 	 ratings 	 assigned 	 by 	 international 	 cr edit 	 rating 	 agencies. 	 The 	 cash 	 floats 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 risks 	 similar 	
to any retailer, namely of theft or loss by employees or third parties. These risks are mitigated by the security systems, policies and procedures that the 
Group operates at each store, the Group recruitment and training policies and the internal audit function. 
The concentration of net bank balances by counterparty financial institution is as follows:
 Credit 2015 2014
 rating £’000  £’000
Barclays Bank plc A2 881 3,729
Lloyds 	 Bank 	 plc	 A1	 3,761 66
The 	 Royal 	 Bank 	 of 	 Scotland 	 plc	 A3	 581 151
Cash 	 at 	 stor es	 —	 5,700 4,304
  10,923 8,250 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  57  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
26. financial instruments (continueD)
maRket Risk PawnbroKing trade receivabLes The collateral which protects the Group from credit risk on non-redemption of pawn loans is 99% (2014:99%) comprised of gold, jewellery items and 
watches. The value of gold items held as security is directly linked to the price of gold. The Group is therefore exposed to adverse movements in the price 
of gold on the value of the security that would be attributable for sale in the event of default by the borrower. The Group considers this risk to be limited 
for 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 r easons. 	 First 	 of 	 all, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 applies 	 conservative 	 lending 	 policies 	 in 	 pawnbr oking 	 pledges 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 blended 	 margin 	 made 	 on 	 r etail 	
sales and scrap gold when contracts forfeit. The value of gold for our customers is also much greater than the price of gold since jewellery items contain 
a retail margin. The Group is also protected due to the short term value of the pawn contract (6 months). In the event of a significant drop in the price of 
gold, the Group could mitigate this risk by reducing its lending policy on pawnbroking pledges, by increasing the proportion of gold sold through retail 
sales or by entering gold hedging instruments. Management monitors the gold price on a constant basis. 
Considering 	 ar eas 	 outside 	 of 	 those 	 financial 	 assets 	 defined 	 under 	 IAS 	 39, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 subject 	 to 	 higher 	 degr ees 	 of 	 pricing 	 risk. 	 The 	 price 	 of 	 gold 	 will 	 af fect 	
future Group profitability in three key ways:
i) A lower gold price will adversely affect the scrap disposition margins on existing inventory, whether generated by pledge book forfeits or via the 
Gr oup’ s 	 pur chasing 	 operations. 	 While 	 scrap 	 pr ofits 	 will 	 be 	 impacted 	 immediately, 	 r etail 	 margins 	 may 	 be 	 less 	 impacted 	 in 	 the 	 short 	 term. 	
ii)	 While 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 lending 	 and 	 pur chasing 	 rates 	 do 	 not 	 track 	 gold 	 price 	 movements 	 in 	 the 	 short 	 term, 	 any 	 sustained 	 fall 	 in 	 the 	 price 	 of 	 gold 	 is 	 likely 	 to	
cause lending and purchasing rates to fall in the longer term thus potentially reducing future profitability as:
a. the size of the pledge book and associated yield is directly linked to lending rates, and
b. assuming constant disposition margins, absolute disposition profits would decrease as lending and purchasing rates decrease.
iii) A lower gold price may reduce the attractiveness of the Group’s gold purchasing operations.
Conversely, a lower gold price may dampen competition as lower returns are available and hence this may assist in sustaining margins.
liquidity Risk borrowings The Group has significant borrowings exposing it to liquidity risk in both repayment of borrowings and availability of finance. In order to mitigate this risk, 
the Group uses a mixture of short-term and long-term debt finance with banking institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-
rating agencies. The current borrowings are disclosed in detail in note 23, which shows that the Group has arrangements in place for funding until 2020. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group also has available £37,000,000 (2014: £32,100,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met. The refinancing has reduced the available headroom by £20,000,000 post year-end. This level of headroom is 
considered sufficient to finance operations at the current level, and as described in note 23, the Group currently has a £30m facility which is available to 
draw 	 upon. 	 Furthermor e, 	 as 	 shown 	 in 	 note 	 30, 	 the 	 business 	 generates 	 a 	 positive 	 cash 	 flow 	 fr om 	 operating 	 activities 	 and 	 has 	 discr etion 	 in 	 its 	 expansion 	
pr ogramme 	 should 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 need 	 to 	 impr ove 	 short 	 term 	 cash 	 flow.
The Group is in full compliance with all loan covenants. 
The 	 maturity 	 analysis 	 of 	 the 	 cash 	 flows 	 arising 	 fr om 	 both 	 curr ent 	 borr owing 	 arrangements 	 that 	 expose 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 to 	 liquidity 	 risk 	 ar e 	 as 	 follows:
    60 days 180
  less than 30 to 60 to 180 days to 1-2 2-3 3-5
  30 days days days 1 year years years years total
Payments due by period  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
at 31 December 2015        
Floating 	 rate 	 borr owings	 	 40	 40	 138	 201	 397	 397	 13,529	 14,742
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 	 1,420	 3,813	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 5,233
total  1,460 3,853 138 201 397 397 13,529 19,975
    60 days 180
	 	 Less 	 than	 30 	 to 	 60	 to 	 180	 days 	 to	 1-2	 2-3	 	 Restated
  30 days days days 1 year years years  Total
Payments 	 due 	 by 	 period	 	 £’000 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 	 £’000
at 31 December 2014        
Floating 	 rate 	 borr owings	 	 43	 43	 172	 266	 525	 16,525	 	 17,574
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 	 1,505	 4,625	 —	 —	 —	 —	 	 6,130
total  1,548 4,668 172 266 525 16,525  23,704
The 	 amounts 	 r eported 	 above 	 for 	 floating 	 rate 	 borr owings 	 include 	 the 	 principal 	 amount 	 of 	 borr owings 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 the 	 inter est 	 payable 	 on 	 these 	 borr owings. 	
The 	 floating 	 rates 	 used 	 to 	 pr edict 	 the 	 inter est 	 cash 	 flows 	 ar e 	 based 	 on 	 the 	 r elevant 	 LIBOR 	 yield 	 curve 	 derived 	 fr om 	 quoted 	 inter est 	 rates. 	 The 	 above 	
amounts 	 ar e 	 contractual, 	 undiscounted 	 cash 	 flows. 58  I 58  I
26. financial instruments (continueD)
inteRest Rate Risk borrowings The 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 funded 	 based 	 on 	 a 	 combination 	 of 	 equity 	 and 	 bank 	 borr owings. 	 The 	 bank 	 borr owings 	 ar e 	 all 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 rates 	 based 	 on 	 LIBOR. 	
Accor dingly 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 exposed 	 to 	 cash 	 flow 	 risk 	 thr ough 	 changes 	 in 	 the 	 LIBOR 	 rate 	 impacting 	 cash 	 flows. 	
Analysis 	 is 	 shown 	 below 	 to 	 demonstrate 	 the 	 sensitivity 	 on 	 pr ofitability 	 of 	 a 	 1% 	 change 	 in 	 LIBOR, 	 subject 	 to 	 LIBOR 	 being 	 a 	 minimum 	 of 	 0%. 	 The 	 analysis 	 is 	
prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1.0% increase or decrease is used 
when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in 
interest rates.
 1.0% decrease 1.0% increase
 in interest rates in interest rates
 £’000  £’000
at 31 December 2015  
Finance 	 costs: 	 gain/(loss)	 66 (130)
T otal 	 pr e 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 gain/(loss)	 66 (130)
Post 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 equity 	 gain/(loss)	 53 (104)
at 31 December 2014  
Finance 	 costs: 	 gain/(loss)	 81	 (160)
T otal 	 pr e 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 gain/(loss)	 81	 (160)
Post 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 equity 	 gain/(loss)	 63	 (126)
FinanciaL assets The Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk on the financial assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, as these are lent at fixed rates, which 
r eflect 	 curr ent 	 market 	 rates 	 for 	 similar 	 types 	 of 	 secur ed 	 or 	 unsecur ed 	 lending, 	 and 	 ar e 	 held 	 at 	 amortised 	 cost.
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 ar e 	 exposed 	 to 	 inter est 	 rate 	 risk 	 as 	 they 	 ar e 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 rates, 	 although 	 the 	 risk 	 is 	 not 	 signi ficant 	 as 	 the 	 inter est 	 r eceivable 	 is 	
not significant.
27. share caPital
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
issued and fully paid   
36,856,264 (2014: 36,856,264) ordinary shares of £0.05 each  1,843 1,843
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
In 2015 and 2014 there were no issue of shares.
Options over shares of the Company are disclosed in note 28. Under these share option arrangements, there are 1,583,978 (2014: 1,585,477) open 
options over shares.
employee Benefit tRust shaRes ReseR ve The Group presents these conditional shares as an adjustment to own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve, 
until 	 the 	 point 	 that 	 the 	 shar es 	 ar e 	 awar ded, 	 and 	 cease 	 to 	 be 	 conditional 	 awar ds 	 of 	 shar es. 	 The 	 awar d 	 of 	 shar es 	 under 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 conditional 	 upon 	 certain	
vesting criteria, as outlined in note 28.
Movements 	 in 	 this 	 r eserve 	 ar e 	 shown 	 in 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Changes 	 in 	 Equity.
Capital Risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders 
through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in 
note 23, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  59  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
27. share caPital (continueD)
geaRing Ratio Although the Group reviews its gearing ratio at each reporting date, no specific target has been fixed by management. The Group’s gearing ratio at the 
year end is as follows:
 2015  2014
gearing ratio £’000  £’000
Debt 13,000 17,925
Cash and cash equivalents (10,923) (8,250)
Net debt 2,077 9,675
Equity 94,060 90,863
Net debt to equity ratio 2.2% 10.6%
Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 23, before unamortised issue costs.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Company.
exteRnally imposed Capital RequiRement The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
28. share-BaseD P ayments
As at 31 December 2015, the Company operated three share award schemes. The charge for the year in respect of all schemes was:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
A. 	 Appr oved 	 Shar e 	 Option 	 Scheme	 37 68
B. 	 Unappr oved 	 Shar e 	 Option 	 Scheme	 3 3
C. 	 Long-term 	 Incentive 	 Plan	 64 178
 104 249
Awards that can be granted under the three schemes total a maximum of 3,685,626 shares (2014: 3,685,626 shares). 
a. appRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘asos’)
The 	 Appr oved 	 Shar e 	 Option 	 Scheme 	 is 	 a 	 shar e 	 option 	 scheme 	 appr oved 	 by 	 HMRC 	 wher e 	 favourable 	 tax 	 tr eatment 	 is 	 r eceived 	 on 	 exer cise 	 by 	 the 	 employee.	
The 	 options 	 may 	 be 	 granted 	 to 	 all 	 management 	 fr om 	 Shop 	 Manager 	 to 	 Executive 	 Dir ector 	 level. 	 The 	 Remuneration 	 Committee 	 of 	 the 	 ultimate 	 Par ent	
Company, H&T Group plc, sets the performance conditions.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have already been met. The performance conditions 
applicable to grants in subsequent years are as follows: 
•	 Options 	 granted 	 in 	 2011, 	 2012 	 and 	 2013 	 become 	 exer cisable 	 subject 	 to 	 continued 	 employment 	 within 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 as 	 at 	 the 	 exer cise 	 date.	
Early exercise of the options is permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing 
company.
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows:
  exercise  earliest
  price number date of expiry
 grant date  pence of shares exercise  date
ASOS 	 2006	 September 	 2006	 182.5	 26,564	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
ASOS 	 2007	 May 	 2007	 217.5	 26,940	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
ASOS 	 2008	 May 	 2008	 175.5	 40,351	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
ASOS 	 2009	 April 	 2009	 194.0	 57,211	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
ASOS 	 2010	 April 	 2010	 245.5	 119,234	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
ASOS 	 2011	 April 	 2011	 298.5	 138,776	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
ASOS 	 2012	 Mar ch 	 2012	 297.0	 169,395	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
ASOS 	 2013	 Mar ch 	 2013	 292.25	 194,539	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023 60  I 60  I
28. share BaseD P ayments (continueD)
a. appRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘asos’) (Continued)
The Group did not issue any share options during 2014 and 2015. 
A 	 r econciliation 	 of 	 option 	 movements 	 for 	 the 	 ASOS 	 is 	 set 	 out 	 below:
   2015  2014
   weighted  W eighted
   average  average
  number exercise Number exercise
  of share price of share price
 options  (in pence) options  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of the year 774,479 267.5 814,564 268.1
Granted during the year — —	 —	 —
Forfeited 	 during 	 the 	 year	 (1,469) 294.6 (40,085) 278.5
Exercised during the year — —	 —	 —
Outstanding at the end of the year 773,010 267.5 774,479 267.6
Exercisable at the end of the year 578,471 259.12 409,076 243.44
B. unappRoved shaRe option sCheme (‘usos’)
The 	 Unappr oved 	 Shar e 	 Option 	 Scheme 	 is 	 a 	 discr etionary 	 option 	 scheme 	 under 	 which 	 the 	 Remuneration 	 Committee 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 may 	 grant 	 options	
to 	 all 	 Executive 	 Dir ectors 	 and 	 Senior 	 Management 	 of 	 the 	 Company. 	 The 	 Remuneration 	 Committee 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 sets 	 the 	 performance 	 conditions.
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment over a three year period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the options is permitted if 
an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company.
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
  exercise  earliest
  price number date of expiry
 grant date  pence of shares exercise  date
USOS 	 2006	 September 	 2006	 182.5	 126,027	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
USOS 	 2007	 May 	 2007	 217.5	 112,643	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
USOS 	 2008	 May 	 2008	 175.5	 146,424	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
USOS 	 2009	 April 	 2009	 194.0	 152,215	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
USOS 	 2010	 April 	 2010	 245.5	 226,740	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
USOS 	 2011	 April 	 2011	 298.5	 8,730	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
USOS 	 2012	 Mar ch 	 2012	 297.0	 10,434	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
USOS 	 2013	 Mar ch 	 2013	 292.25	 26,929	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023
The Group did not issue any share options during 2014 and 2015. 
A 	 r econciliation 	 of 	 option 	 movements 	 for 	 the 	 USOS 	 is 	 set 	 out 	 below:
   2015  2014
   weighted  W eighted
   average  average
  number exercise Number exercise
  of share price of share price
 options  (in pence) options  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of the year 810,968 212.4 833,920 214.7
Granted during the year — —	 —	 —
Forfeited 	 during 	 the 	 year	 (826) 297.0 (22,952) 298.5
Exercised during the year — —	 —	 —
Outstanding at the end of the year 810,142 212.3 810,968 212.3
Exercisable at the end of the year 783,213 209.5 772,779 208.3
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  61  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
28. share BaseD P ayments (continueD)
C. long-teRm inCentive plan (‘ltip’)
The 	 L TIP 	 is 	 a 	 discr etionary 	 shar e 	 incentive 	 scheme 	 under 	 which 	 the 	 Remuneration 	 Committee 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 can 	 grant 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 at 	 no 	 cost 	 to	
Executive Directors and other senior management. 
The 	 L TIP 	 operates 	 as 	 conditional 	 shar es 	 awar ded 	 over 	 a 	 defined 	 year 	 performance 	 period 	 and 	 subject 	 to 	 continued 	 employment 	 over 	 a 	 thr ee 	 year 	 period 	
from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the conditional shares is permitted if a share award holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, 
disability, retirement or sale of his employing company.
The performance condition applicable to the 2013 grant is as follows:
•	 The 	 performance 	 period 	 is 	 fr om 	 1 	 January 	 2013 	 to 	 31 	 December 	 2015.
•	 The 	 awar d 	 cannot 	 be 	 exer cised 	 unless 	 the 	 per centage 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 over 	 the 	 performance 	 period 	 is 	 gr eater 	 than 	 22.35% 	
(“the 	 Lower 	 Limit”).
•	 If 	 the 	 per centage 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 over 	 the 	 Performance 	 Period 	 is 	 equal 	 to 	 or 	 gr eater 	 than 	 52% 	 (“the 	 Upper 	 T arget”), 	 the 	
A war d 	 may 	 be 	 exer cised 	 as 	 to 	 100% 	 of 	 the 	 Shar es 	 subject 	 to 	 the 	 A war d.
•	 If 	 the 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 is 	 between 	 the 	 Lower 	 Limit 	 and 	 the 	 Upper 	 T arget 	 then 	 the 	 A war d 	 may 	 only 	 be 	 exer cised 	 over 	 such 	
per centage 	 between 	 0% 	 and 	 100% 	 of 	 the 	 Shar es 	 subject 	 to 	 the 	 A war d 	 (r ounded 	 down 	 to 	 the 	 near est 	 whole 	 number 	 of 	 Shar es) 	 as 	 r elates 	 to 	 the	
amount 	 by 	 which, 	 on 	 a 	 straight 	 line 	 basis, 	 the 	 Lower 	 T arget 	 has 	 been 	 exceeded.
The conditional shares outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
    number of earliest date
   grant date  shares  of exercise
L TIP 	 2013	 	 	 Mar 	 2013	 198,513	 28/03/2016
The Group did not issue any conditional shares during 2014 and 2015. 
A 	 r econciliation 	 of 	 conditional 	 shar e 	 movements 	 for 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 set 	 out 	 below:
   2015  2014
   weighted  W eighted
   average  average
  number of exercise Number of exercise
  conditional price conditional  price
 shares   (in pence) shares  (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of the year 389,010 —	 556,858	 —
Granted during the year — —	 —	 —
Forfeited 	 during 	 the 	 year	 (190,497) —	 (103,866)	 —
Exercised during the year — —	 (63,982)	 —
Outstanding at the end of the year 198,513 —	 389,010	 — 62  I 62  I
29. oPerating lease arrangements
the gRoup as lessee 
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 6,693 6,643
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which 
fall due as follows:
 land and buildings  other
 2015 2014 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
W ithin 	 one 	 year	 6,098 6,293 76 115
In the second to fifth years inclusive 16,562 17,569 39 175
After five years 10,474 12,359 —	—
 33,134 36,221 115 290
Signi ficant 	 operating 	 lease 	 payments 	 r epr esent 	 r entals 	 payable 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 for 	 r ental 	 of 	 stor e 	 pr emises. 	 Leases 	 ar e 	 normally 	 negotiated 	 for 	 an 	 average 	
term of 10 years at the then prevailing market rate, with a break option after 5 years.
The Group also sublets some of the premises above the stores, the outstanding receipts from which are immaterial.
30. notes to the cash flow statement
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 5,378 4,255
Adjustments for:  
  Investment revenues (1) (1)
		 Finance 	 costs	 679 708
  Movement in provisions (216) 332
		 T ax 	 expense 	 – 	 Gr oup 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income	 1,462 1,255
  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,897 3,087
  Amortisation of intangible assets 321 383
  Impairment — 99
		 Shar e-based 	 payment 	 expense	 104 246
		 Loss 	 on 	 disposal 	 of 	 pr operty, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment 	 	 75 181
Operating 	 cash 	 flows 	 befor e 	 movements 	 in 	 working 	 capital	 10,699 10,545
  Decrease in inventories 4,469 530
  Increase in other current assets (417) (125)
		 (Incr ease) / decr ease 	 in 	 r eceivables	 (1,367) 4,941
		 (Decr ease) / incr ease 	 in 	 payables	 (507) 846
Cash generated from operations 12,877 16,737
   
  Income taxes paid (1,160) (1,806)
  Interest paid (508) (558)
Net cash generated from operating activities 11,209 14,373
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other short-term 
highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  63  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
31. relateD P arty transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this 
note. 
Transactions with directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Report and note 9. There were no other material related party transactions during the year. 
RemuneRation of key management peRsonnel The 	 r emuneration 	 of 	 the 	 dir ectors 	 of 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited, 	 the 	 trading 	 subsidiary, 	 who 	 ar e 	 the 	 key 	 management 	 personnel 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup, 	 is 	 set 	 out	
below 	 in 	 aggr egate 	 for 	 each 	 of 	 the 	 categories 	 speci fied 	 in 	 IAS 	 24 	 ‘Related 	 Party 	 Disclosur es’:
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Short-term 	 employee 	 benefits	 842 867
Pension 	 contributions	 57 56
Shar e-based 	 payments	 — 95
 899 1,018
32. caPital commitments 
There is no significant capital expenditure authorised and contracted for but not provided in the accounts (2014: £nil). 
33. events after the Balance sheet Date 
The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 4.5p (2014: 2.7p) (note 14).
On 	 12 	 February 	 2016 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 r efinanced 	 its 	 cr edit 	 facility 	 with 	 Lloyds 	 Bank 	 plc, 	 further 	 details 	 can 	 be 	 found 	 in 	 note 	 23. 64  I 64  I
W e 	 have 	 audited 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	
plc 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 which 	 comprise 	 the 	 Par ent	
Company 	 balance 	 sheet, 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 combined 	 r econciliation 	 of	
movements in shareholders’ funds and statement of movement on reserves 
and the related notes A to G. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting 	 Standar ds 	 (United 	 Kingdom 	 Generally 	 Accepted 	 Accounting	
Practice), 	 including 	 FRS 	 101 	 “Reduced 	 Disclosur e 	 Framework”.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accor dance 	 with 	 Chapter 	 3 	 of 	 Part 	 16 	 of 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006. 	 Our	
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
resPective resPonsiBilities of Directors anD auDitor
As 	 explained 	 mor e 	 fully 	 in 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 Responsibilities 	 Statement, 	 the	
dir ectors 	 ar e 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 the 	 pr eparation 	 of 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company	
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. 	 Our 	 r esponsibility 	 is 	 to 	 audit 	 and 	 expr ess 	 an 	 opinion 	 on 	 the 	 Par ent	
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International 	 Standar ds 	 on 	 Auditing 	 (UK 	 and 	 Ir eland). 	 Those 	 standar ds	
r equir e 	 us 	 to 	 comply 	 with 	 the 	 Auditing 	 Practices 	 Boar d’ s 	 Ethical 	 Standar ds	
for Auditors.
scoPe of the auDit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies 	 ar e 	 appr opriate 	 to 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company’ s 	 cir cumstances 	 and 	 have	
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 
report.
oPinion on financial statements
In 	 our 	 opinion 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements:
•	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of 	 the 	 Company’ s 	 af fairs 	 as 	 at	 
31 December 2015 and of its loss for the year then ended;
•	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 United 	 Kingdom	
Generally 	 Accepted 	 Accounting 	 Practice; 	 and
•	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the 	 r equir ements 	 of 	 the	
Companies Act 2006.
oPinion on other matters PrescriBeD By the  
comP anies act 2006
In 	 our 	 opinion 	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Strategic 	 Report 	 and 	 the	
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
ar e 	 pr epar ed 	 is 	 consistent 	 with 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements.
matters on which we are requireD to rePort  
By excePtion
W e 	 have 	 nothing 	 to 	 r eport 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 the 	 following 	 matters 	 wher e 	 the	
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 have 	 not 	 been 	 kept 	 by 	 the 	 Par ent	
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 ar e 	 not 	 in 	 agr eement 	 with 	
the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 dir ectors’ 	 r emuneration 	 speci fied 	 by 	 law 	 ar e 	 not 	
made; or
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and 	 explanations 	 we 	 r equir e	
for our audit.
other matters
W e 	 have 	 r eported 	 separately 	 on 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 
H&T Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
roBert Knight	 (Senior 	 Statutory 	 Auditor)
for 	 and 	 on 	 behal f 	 of 	 Deloitte 	 LLP
Charter ed 	 Accountants 	 and 	 Statutory 	 Auditor	
Crawley, United Kingdom
2 March 2016
Independent Auditor’ s report  
to the members of H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  65  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Par ent 	 Company 	 balance 	 sheet
As at 31 December 2015
  2015  2014
 Note £’000  £’000
non-current assets   
Investments C 1,479 1,375
  1,479 1,375
current assets   
Receivables D 61,587 61,587
Cash at bank and in hand  46 46
  61,633 61,633
liabilities: amounts falling due within one year E (18,707) (16,306)
net current assets  42,926 45,327
total assets less current liabilities  44,405 46,702
net assets  44,405 46,702
capital and reserves   
Called 	 up 	 shar e 	 capital	 F	 1,843 1,843
Shar e 	 pr emium 	 account	 	 25,409 25,409
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve  (35) (35)
Shar e 	 option 	 r eserve	 	 1,479 1,375
Pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	 account	 	 15,709 18,110
total shareholders’ funds  44,405 46,702
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 05188117, were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on  
2 March 2016.
Signed 	 on 	 behal f 	 of 	 the 	 Boar d 	 of 	 dir ectors 	 by:
J g nichols
Chief Executive 66  I 66  I
    employee
    benefit
  called up share  trust share Profit
  share premium shares option and loss 2015
2015  capital account reserve reserves account total
company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 	 1 	 January	 	 1,843	 25,409	 (35)	 1,375	 18,110	 46,702
Loss 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (116)	 (116)
Dividend 	 paid	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (2,285)	 (2,285)
Issue 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital	 F	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust 	 shar es	 	 —	 —	 —	 104	 —	 104
Shar e 	 option 	 cr edit 	 taken 	 dir ectly 	 to 	 equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
At 31 December  1,843 25,409 (35) 1,479 15,709 44,405
    Employee
    benefit
	 	 Called 	 up	 Shar e 	 	 trust	 Shar e	 Pr ofit
  share premium shares option and loss 2014
2014  capital account reserve reserves account Total
Company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 	 1 	 January	 	 1,843	 25,409	 (38)	 1,129	 20,055	 48,398
Loss 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (176)	 (176)
Dividend 	 paid	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (1,769)	 (1,769)
Issue 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital	 F	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust 	 shar es	 	 —	 —	 3	 —	 —	 3
Shar e 	 option 	 cr edit 	 taken 	 dir ectly 	 to 	 equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 246	 —	 246
At 31 December  1,843 25,409 (35) 1,375 18,110 46,702
Par ent 	 Company 	 combined 	 r econciliation 	of movements 
in shareholders’ funds and statement of movements  
on reserves. 
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  67  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015
a. accounting Policies
Basis of pRepaRation H&T Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given on page 20. The 
nature of the Company’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the business review on pages 4 and 5.
The 	 Company 	 meets 	 the 	 definition 	 of 	 a 	 quali fying 	 entity 	 under 	 FRS 	 100 	 (Financial 	 Reporting 	 Standar d 	 100) 	 issued 	 by 	 the 	 Financial 	 Reporting 	 Council. 	
Accor dingly, 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 changed 	 its 	 accounting 	 framework 	 fr om 	 UK 	 GAAP 	 to 	 FRS 	 101 	 as 	 issued 	 by 	 the	
Financial 	 Reporting 	 Council 	 and 	 has, 	 in 	 doing 	 so, 	 applied 	 the 	 r equir ements 	 of 	 IFRS 	 1.6-33 	 and 	 r elated 	 appendices. 	 These 	 financial 	 statements 	 wer e 	
pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 FRS 	 101 	 (Financial 	 Reporting 	 Standar d 	 101) 	 ‘Reduced 	 Disclosur e 	 Framework’ 	 as 	 issued 	 by 	 the 	 Financial 	 Reporting 	 Council.	
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in 
exchange for the goods and services. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These financial statements are separate financial statements. The Company is exempt from the preparation of consolidated financial statements, because it 
is included in the Group financial statements of H&T Group plc. 
As 	 permitted 	 by 	 FRS 	 101, 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 taken 	 advantage 	 of 	 the 	 disclosur e 	 exemptions 	 available 	 under 	 that 	 standar d 	 in 	 r elation 	 to 	 business	
combinations, share-based payment, non-current assets held for sale, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information 
in 	 r espect 	 of 	 certain 	 assets, 	 pr esentation 	 of 	 a 	 cash-flow 	 statement, 	 standar ds 	 not 	 yet 	 ef fective, 	 impairment 	 of 	 assets 	 and 	 r elated 	 party 	 transactions. 	 Wher e 	
required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Group financial statements of H&T Group plc. The Group financial statements of H&T Group plc are 
available to the public.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors’ Report.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
t axation Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted 	 by 	 the 	 balance 	 sheet 	 date. 	 Wher e 	 tax 	 losses 	 ar e 	 surr ender ed 	 to, 	 or 	 r eceived 	 fr om, 	 gr oup 	 companies, 	 the 	 amount 	 r eceived/surr ender ed 	 is 	 charged/
cr edited 	 to 	 the 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	 account 	 and 	 tr eated 	 as 	 payable 	 to/r eceivable 	 fr om 	 the 	 r elated 	 Gr oup 	 party 	 that 	 has 	 surr ender ed/r eceived 	 the 	 losses.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events 
that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences 
are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses 
in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be 
deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. 
investments Fixed 	 assets 	 investments 	 ar e 	 shown 	 at 	 cost 	 less 	 pr ovision 	 for 	 impairment.
finanCial liaBilities and equity
Financial 	 liabilities 	 and 	 equity 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 classi fied 	 accor ding 	 to 	 the 	 substance 	 of 	 the 	 contractual 	 arrangements 	 enter ed 	 into. 	 An 	 equity 	 instrument 	 is 	
any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
dividends 
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings are recorded in the profit and loss account on the date that the dividend becomes a binding liability on 
the 	 subsidiary 	 company. 	 Under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 IFRS 	 3 	 ‘Business 	 Combinations’, 	 the 	 Company 	 r ecor ds 	 dividends 	 arising 	 fr om 	 pr e-acquisition 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	
reserves of its subsidiary undertaking in the profit and loss account and considers whether the distribution affects the carrying value of the investment in 
the subsidiary undertaking.
Dividends payable are recorded as a distribution from retained earnings in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
shaRe options 
The 	 Company’ s 	 trading 	 subsidiary, 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 issues 	 shar e 	 options 	 to 	 employees 	 in 	 that 	 Company, 	 which 	 ar e 	 equity 	 settled 	 in 	 shar es 	 of	
H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc. 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 determines 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 options 	 granted 	 measur ed 	 at 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 grant 	 by 	 use 	 of 	 a 	 Black-Scholes	
model 	 or 	 a 	 Stochastic 	 model 	 depending 	 on 	 the 	 vesting 	 conditions 	 attached 	 to 	 each 	 scheme. 	 This 	 fair 	 value 	 cost 	 of 	 equity-settled 	 awar ds 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 on	
a 	 straight-line 	 basis 	 over 	 the 	 vesting 	 period 	 in 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited, 	 based 	 on 	 the 	 estimate 	 of 	 shar es 	 that 	 will 	 eventually 	
vest and adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. 
The 	 Company 	 r eceives 	 a 	 payment 	 each 	 period, 	 equal 	 to 	 the 	 annual 	 expense 	 r ecor ded 	 in 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited 	 calculated 	 on 	 the 	 basis 	 described 	 above.	
This amount is credited to the profit and loss account each period and is treated in a similar manner to a distribution of dividends from Group companies. 68  I 68  I
B. comP any Profit anD loss account
No 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	 account 	 is 	 pr esented 	 for 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 pursuant 	 to 	 section 	 408 	 of 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006.
The Company made a loss after taxation of £116,000 in 2015 (2014: loss of £176,000).
The 	 auditor’ s 	 r emuneration 	 for 	 the 	 curr ent 	 and 	 pr eceding 	 financial 	 years 	 is 	 borne 	 by 	 a 	 subsidiary 	 undertaking, 	 Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited. 	 Note 	 8 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	
financial statements discloses the amount paid in respect of the Company.
The directors did not receive any emoluments for their services to the Company (2014: £nil). Other than the directors, the Company has no employees in either 
financial year.
c. investments
  total
shares in subsidiary undertakings  £’000
cost 
At 	 1 	 January 	 2014	 	 1,129
Additions  246
At 	 1 	 January 	 2015	 	 1,375
Additions  104
At 31 December 2015  1,479
W ithin 	 the 	 cost 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2015 	 includes 	 cost 	 of 	 shar es 	 in 	 subsidiary 	 undertakings 	 of 	 £1.
Additions 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 r epr esent 	 capital 	 contributions 	 in 	 r elation 	 to 	 shar e 	 options 	 issued 	 to 	 employees. 	 Please 	 r efer 	 to 	 note 	 28 	 on 	 page 	 59.
The investments in Group companies which are all included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
  Proportion of ordinary
 country of shares held: 
name of company incorporation Directly: indirectly: Principal activity
H&T 	 Finance 	 Limited	 Gr eat 	 Britain	 100%	 —	 Management 	 of 	 finance
    
Harvey 	 & 	 Thompson 	 Limited	 Gr eat 	 Britain	 —	 100%	 Pawnbr oking, 	 jewellery 	 sales, 	 gold 	 pur chasing, 	 	
    unsecured lending, cheque cashing and 
    related services
The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiary undertakings. H&T Group plc is also incorporated in Great Britain.
D. receivaBles
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 61,565 61,565
Pr epayments 	 and 	 accrued 	 income	 22 22
 61,587 61,587
Notes to the Company financial statements
For 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2015 	 (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  69  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
e. liaBilities: amounts falling Due within one year
 2015  2014
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 18,479 16,121
Accruals and deferred income 228 185
 18,707 16,306
f. calleD uP share caPital
Please 	 r efer 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 for 	 details 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital 	 including 	 shar es 	 issued 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 (note 	 27), 	 and 	 dividends 	 paid 	
and proposed (notes 14 and 33).
g. exPlanation of transition to frs 101
This 	 is 	 the 	 first 	 year 	 that 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 pr esented 	 its 	 financial 	 statements 	 under 	 FRS 	 101 	 (Financial 	 Reporting 	 Standar d 	 101) 	 issued 	 by 	 the 	 Financial 	
Reporting 	 Council. 	 The 	 last 	 financial 	 statements 	 under 	 a 	 pr evious 	 GAAP 	 (UK 	 GAAP) 	 wer e 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2014 	 and 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 transition 	
to 	 FRS 	 101 	 was 	 ther efor e 	 1 	 January 	 2014. 	 Ther e 	 wer e 	 no 	 adjustments 	 to 	 be 	 made 	 on 	 transition 	 to 	 FRS 	 101. 70  I 70  I
Stor e 	 dir ectory
acton
158 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 W3 	 6QZ
Tel: 020 8993 2586
ayr
114 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 KA7 	 1PQ	
Tel: 01292 619 867 
BarKing 
27 	 East 	 Str eet, 	 IG11 	 8ER	
Tel: 020 8594 6100 
BasilDon 
1a 	 Market 	 Pavement, 	 SS14 	 1DD	
Tel: 01268 281 223 
BeDminster
84 	 East 	 Str eet, 	 Bedminster , 	 Bristol,	 
BS3 	 4EY	
Tel: 01179 666 321
Bexleyheath
109 	 The 	 Br oadway 	 Centr e, 	 DA6 	 7JH
Tel: 020 8303 9403
BirKenheaD 
The 	 Grange 	 Shopping 	 Centr e	
26 	 Bor ough 	 Pavement, 	 CH41 	 2XX	
Tel: 0151 647 5053 
Birmingham
102 	 Bull 	 Str eet, 	 B4 	 7AA
Tel: 0121 236 3082
Birmingham
10 	 Ethel 	 Str eet, 	 B2 	 4BG
Tel: 0121 632 5166
BlacKBurn
Unit 	 2, 	 3 	 Ainsworth 	 Str eet, 	 BB1 	 6AS	
Tel: 01254 260 040
BlacKPool
97-99 	 Central 	 Drive, 	 FY1 	 5EE
Tel: 01253 622 039 
Bolton
13 	 Newport 	 Str eet, 	 BL1 	 1NE
Tel: 01204 385 530 
Bootle
Unit 	 115, 	 Strand 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
L20 	 4SU
Tel: 0151 933 7438 
Bootle 
156 	 Parkside
Strand 	 Shopping 	 Centr e
L20 	 4XX
Tel: 0151 922 0978
Bow
575 	 Roman 	 Road, 	 E3 	 5EL
Tel: 020 8983 9553 
 
BraDforD
26 	 James 	 Str eet, 	 BD1 	 3PZ
Tel: 01274 390 675
  
BrecK roaD
305-307 Breck Road
Liverpool
L5 	 6PU
Tel: 0151 263 4699
Brighton
4 	 Castle 	 Squar e, 	 BN1 	 1EG
Tel: 01273 326 061
 
Brixton
Ar ch 	 9, 	 Atlantic 	 Road, 	 SW9 	 8HX
Tel: 020 7733 8457
Bromley 
78 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 BR1 	 1EY	
Tel: 020 8460 2986 
Burnt oaK
75 	 Burnt 	 Oak 	 Br oadway, 	 HA8 	 5EP
Tel: 020 8952 2523
camBerwell
72 	 Denmark 	 Hill, 	 SE5 	 8RZ	
Tel: 020 7738 7927
catforD
58 	 Rushey 	 Gr een, 	 SE6 	 4JD
Tel: 020 8690 3549 
chalK f arm
36 	 Chalk 	 Farm 	 Road, 	 NW1 	 8AJ
Tel: 020 7485 2668
chatham
321 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 ME4 	 4BN
Tel: 01634 811 811
cheetham hill
Unit 	 5 	 Cheetham 	 Hill 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	 
M8 	 5EL
Tel: 0161 740 6556
chelmsforD
25 	 High 	 Chelmer , 	 CM1 	 1XR
Tel: 01245 259 004
claPham
9 	 Northcote 	 Road, 	 SW11 	 1NG
Tel: 020 7228 3807
claPton
157 Clapton Common, E5 9AE
Tel: 020 8809 1488
clyDeBanK
25 	 Sylvania 	 W ay 	 South, 	 G81 	 1EA
Tel: 0141 952 6396 
colchester
10 	 Short 	 Wyr e 	 Str eet, 	 CO1 	 1LN
Tel: 01206 765 433
corBy
19 	 Corporation 	 Str eet, 	 NN17 	 1NG
Tel: 01536 402 886
cosham
32 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 PO6 	 3BZ
Tel: 02392 389 940
county roaD
66 	 County 	 Road, 	 W alton,
Liverpool, 	 L4 	 3QL
Tel: 0151 523 0085
coventry
10 	 Hales 	 Str eet, 	 CV1 	 1JD
Tel: 02476 256 220
coventry
Unit 	 1, 	 Shelton 	 Squar e, 	 CV1 	 1DG
Tel: 02476 223 623
crawley
11 	 Br oadwalk, 	 Northgate, 	 RH10 	 1HJ
Tel: 01293 618 270
crewe 
21 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 CW1 	 2HF
Tel: 01270 254 888
croyDon east
16 	 George 	 Str eet, 	 CR0 	 1P A
Tel: 020 8680 1470
croyDon west
12 	 London 	 Road, 	 CR0 	 2T A
Tel: 020 8680 4738
croyDon whitgift
Unit 	 145A 	 Whitgi ft 	 Centr e, 	 CR0 	 1UT
Tel: 020 8680 4443
Dagenham
299 Heathway, RM9 5AQ
Tel: 020 8592 8848
Dalston
52 	 Kingsland 	 High 	 St., 	 E8 	 2JP
Tel: 020 7254 1788
Darlington
23 	 Skinnergate, 	 DL3 	 7NW
Tel: 01325 361 781
DartforD
Unit 	 33, 	 The 	 Or char ds 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
DA1 1DN
Tel: 01322 224 918
DePtforD
72 	 Deptfor d 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SE8 	 4R T
Tel: 020 8692 3092
DerBy
33 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 DE1 	 1ES
Tel: 01332 291 623 Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  71  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Doncaster
23 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 DN1 	 1DW
Tel: 01302 812 099
Downham
438 	 Br omley 	 Road, 	 BR1 	 4PP
Tel: 020 8697 6212
DuDley
215 	 W olverhampton 	 St., 	 DY1 	 1EF
Tel: 01384 238 577
DuKe street 
487 	 Duke 	 Str eet, 	 Glasgow, 	 G31 	 1DL	
Tel: 0141 554 9332
DunDee
116 	 Seagate, 	 DD1 	 2ET
Tel: 01382 205 213
Durham
69 	 North 	 Road, 	 DH1 	 4SQ	
Tel: 0191 374 1813
east ham
47 	 High 	 Str eet 	 North, 	 E6 	 1HS
Tel: 020 8586 6775
east KilBriDe
10 	 Princes 	 Mall, 	 G74 	 1LB
Tel: 01355 232 520
easterhouse
Unit 	 19, 	 Shandwick 	 Squar e 	 Shopping 	 Centr e	
Bogbain Rd, G34 9DT
Tel: 0141 771 8796
eastleigh
43-45 	 Market 	 Str eet, 	 SO50 	 5RF
Tel: 02380 615 552
eDinBurgh
106 	 Lauriston 	 Place, 	 EH3 	 9HX
Tel: 0131 229 4448
eDinBurgh
78a 	 Nicolson 	 Str eet, 	 EH8 	 9EW
Tel: 0131 667 2022
eDmonton
16 	 South 	 Mall, 	 Edmonton 	 Gr een 	 Shopping	
Centre, N9 0TN
Tel: 020 8807 8302
elePhant anD castle
212 	 E&C 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 SE1 	 6TE
Tel: 020 7252 4602
ellesmere Port
43 	 Marina 	 Drive, 	 Port 	 Ar cades 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
CH65 0AN
Tel: 0151 357 3176
eltham
89 	 Eltham 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SE9 	 1TD
Tel: 020 8850 6963
fareham
119a 	 W est 	 Str eet, 	 PO16 	 0DY
Tel: 01329 288 838
finsBury 
259-261 	 Seven 	 Sisters 	 Road, 	 N4 	 2DD	
Tel: 020 7272 9249
fore street
169-171 	 For e 	 Str eet, 	 Edmonton,
N18 	 2XB
Tel: 020 8887 8910
forest gate
29 	 W oodgrange 	 Road, 	 E7 	 8BA	
Tel: 020 8555 5120
fulham
224 	 Northend 	 Road, 	 W14 	 9NU
Tel: 020 7385 3188
gatesheaD
Unit 	 5, 	 Jackson 	 Str eet, 	 NE8 	 1EE
Tel: 0191 478 4107
gillingham
169 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 ME7 	 1AQ
Tel: 01634 855 053
glasgow
9-11 	 Bath 	 Str eet, 	 G2 	 1HY
Tel: 0141 332 5637
govan
595 	 Govan 	 Road, 	 G51 	 2AS
Tel: 0141 445 1567
gravesenD
21 	 King 	 Str eet, 	 DA12 	 2EB
Tel: 01474 363 611
great BriDge 
51 	 Gr eat 	 Bridge, 	 DY4 	 7HF
Tel: 0121 557 1413
great western
156 	 Gr eat 	 W estern 	 Road, 	 G4 	 9AE
Tel: 0141 332 0878
green street
342 	 Gr een 	 Str eet, 	 Upton 	 Park, 	 London,	
E13 	 9AP 	 	
Tel: 020 8471 1335
greenocK 
Unit 3 Hamilton Gate,
Oakmall 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 P A15 	 1JW
Tel: 01475 726 616
grimsBy
6 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 DN31 	 1DP
Tel: 01472 355 489
hacKney
384 	 Mar e 	 Str eet, 	 E8 	 1HR
Tel: 020 8533 5663
hammersmith
134 	 King 	 Str eet, 	 W6 	 0QU
Tel: 020 8563 8585
harlesDen 
72 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 NW10 	 4SJ	
Tel: 020 8838 5122
harlow
23 	 Br oad 	 W alk, 	 CM20 	 1JF	
Tel: 01279 417 128
harrow
324b 	 Station 	 Road, 	 HA1 	 2DX
Tel: 020 8861 1534
harrow
14 	 St 	 Anns 	 Road, 	 HA1 	 1LG	
Tel: 020 8863 0069
hastings
18 Queens Road, Hastings, TN34 1QY
Tel: 01424 430 190
hayes
46 	 Station 	 Road, 	 UB3 	 4DD
Tel: 020 8589 0805
holloway 
9 	 Seven 	 Sisters 	 Road, 	 N7 	 6AJ	
Tel: 020 7281 8559
hounslow
30 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 TW3 	 1NW
Tel: 020 8570 4626
hounslow
253 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 TW3 	 1EA	 	 	
Tel: 020 8577 0084
hull
37 	 Pr ospect 	 Centr e, 	 HU2 	 8PP
Tel: 01482 228 946
hyDe
Unit 	 5, 	 The 	 Mall, 	 Clar endon 	 Squar e 	 Shopping	
Centr e, 	 SK14 	 2QT
Tel: 0161 351 7812
ilforD
91-93 	 Cranbr ook 	 Road, 	 IG1 	 4PG
Tel: 020 8514 3334
ilforD
211 	 High 	 Road, 	 IG1 	 1LX
Tel: 020 8514 6372
irvine
1/3 	 Bridgegate, 	 KA12 	 8BJ
Tel: 01294 273 823 
KilBurn
139 	 Kilburn 	 High 	 Road, 	 NW6 	 7HR
Tel: 020 7624 3367  72  I 72  I
Stor e 	 dir ectory 	(continued)
KilmarnocK
25 	 King 	 Str eet, 	 KA1 	 1PT
Tel: 01563 527 748
Kingston uPon thames
26 	 Castle 	 Str eet, 	 KT1 	 1SS
Tel: 020 8546 8365
KirKBy
Unit 	 11b, 	 St 	 Chads 	 W ay, 	 Kirkby, 	 L32 	 8RD
Tel: 0151 546 6622
KirKcalDy
85 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 Kirkcaldy, 	 Fi fe, 	 KY1 	 1LN
Tel: 01592 262 554
KnightswooD 
746 Anniesland Road, Glasgow, G14 0YU
Tel: 0141 959 3694
leeDs
8 	 New 	 Market 	 Str eet, 	 LS1 	 6DG
Tel: 01132 449 352
leicester
69 	 Market 	 Place, 	 LE1 	 5EL
Tel: 0116 262 4566
leigh
53 	 Bradshawgate, 	 WN7 	 4NB
Tel: 01942 673 012
leith
Unit 	 6, 	 Newkirkgate 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,
EH6 6AA
Tel: 0131 555 3298
lewisham
121 	 Lewisham 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SE13 	 6A T
Tel: 020 8852 9961
leyton
281 High Road, E10 5QN
Tel: 020 8539 8332
liverPool 
Unit 	 6, 	 42-46 	 Whitechapel, 	 L1 	 6DZ
Tel: 0151 709 2151
livingston
Unit 	 22, 	 Almondvale 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
EH54 6HR
Tel: 01506 431 779
luton
174 	 The 	 Arndale 	 Centr e, 	 LU1 	 2TL
Tel: 01582 486 711
macclesfielD
23 	 Chestergate, 	 SK11 	 6BX
Tel: 01625 430 699
margate 
72 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 Margate, 	 CT9 	 1DT	
Tel: 01843 292 189
miDDlesBrough
45 	 Dundas 	 Str eet, 	 TS1 	 1HR
Tel: 01642 223 849
new aDDington 
14 	 Central 	 Parade, 	 CR0 	 0JB
Tel: 01689 847 388
newcastle
117 	 Grainger 	 Str eet, 	 NE1 	 5AE	
Tel: 0191 232 1924
newcastle
16 	 Newgate 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 NE1 	 5RB	
Tel: 0191 232 6908
northamPton
Unit 	 3, 	 71B 	 Abington 	 Str eet, 	 NN1 	 2BH	
Tel: 01604 239 085
nottingham
22-24 	 Upper 	 Parliament 	 Str eet, 	 NG1 	 2AD
Tel: 0115 947 6560
olDham 
Unit 	 34, 	 T own 	 Squar e 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
T own 	 Centr e, 	 OL1 	 1HD
Tel: 0161 627 5904
olDham
Unit 	 24, 	 T own 	 Squar e,	
Spindles 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 OL1 	 1XF
Tel: 0161 628 9303
orPington
221 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 BR6 	 0NZ
Tel: 01689 870 280
PaDDington
63 	 Praed 	 Str eet, 	 W2 	 1NS	
Tel: 020 7723 5736
ParticK
333 	 Dumbarton 	 Road, 	 G11 	 6AL
Tel: 0141 334 1258
PecKham
51 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SE15 	 5EB
Tel: 020 7703 4547
Penge 
136 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SE20 	 7EU	
Tel: 020 8676 8220
PeterBorough
1 	 W estgate, 	 PE1 	 1PX
Tel: 01733 310 794
PoPlar
22 	 Market 	 W ay, 	 E14 	 6AH
Tel: 020 7987 1596
Portsmouth
186 	 Kingston 	 Road, 	 PO2 	 7LP
Tel: 02393 691 751
Preston
11 	 Friargate, 	 PR1 	 2AU
Tel: 01772 563 495
reaDing
31 	 Oxfor d 	 Road, 	 Br oad 	 Str eet 	 Mall,	
RG1 7QG
Tel: 0118 959 9946
rochDale
92 	 Y orkshir e 	 Str eet, 	 OL16 	 1JX
Tel: 01706 525 709
romforD
Unit 	 30, 	 Liberty 	 2, 	 Mer cury 	 Gar dens
RM1 3EE
Tel: 01708 755 420
rotherham
2 	 Ef fingham 	 Str eet, 	 S65 	 1AJ
Tel: 01709 363 686
rugBy
1 	 Chur ch 	 Str eet, 	 CV21 	 3PH
Tel: 01788 577 110
runcorn
Unit 	 119, 	 Halton 	 Lea 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,
W A7 	 2BX
Tel: 01928 796 318 
rutherglen
Unit 3, Mitchell Arcade,
Rutherglen 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 G73 	 2LS
Tel: 0141 647 6040 
salforD
70 	 Fitzgerald 	 W ay, 	 Sal for d 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
M6 	 5HW
Tel: 0161 745 7949  
scunthorPe
114 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 DN15 	 6HB
Tel: 01724 843 817
sheffielD
The 	 Kiosk, 	 1-13 	 Angel 	 Str eet, 	 S3 	 8LN
Tel: 0114 276 9281
shePherDs Bush 
220 	 Uxbridge 	 Road, 	 W12 	 7JD	
Tel: 020 8811 2665 
siDcuP
76 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 DA14 	 6DS
Tel: 020 8300 6242 
slough
64 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SL1 	 1EL
Tel: 01753 693 303
soho roaD
224 	 Soho 	 Road, 	 Birmingham, 	 B21 	 9LR
Tel: 0121 507 0185
southall
1A 	 The 	 Br oadway, 	 UB1 	 1JR
Tel: 020 8843 4920
southall
10 	 King 	 Str eet, 	 UB2 	 4DA
Tel: 020 8843 9027
 
southamPton
113a 	 East 	 Str eet, 	 SO14 	 3HD
Tel: 02380 639 945 Designed and produced by corporateprm, 	 Edinburgh 	 and 	 London. 	 www.corporateprm.co.uk
southamPton
Unit 	 19, 	 Marlands 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,
SO14 	 7SJ
Tel: 02380 225 336 
southenD-on-sea 
95 	 Southchur ch 	 Road, 	 SS1 	 2NL	
Tel: 01702 469 977
sPringBurn
Unit 	 13, 	 Springburn 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,
Springburn 	 W ay, 	 G21 	 1TS
Tel: 0141 558 7569
st. helens 
4 	 Ormskirk 	 Str eet, 	 W A10 	 1BH
Tel: 01744 610 331
stevenage
24 	 W estgate 	 Centr e, 	 SG1 	 1QR
Tel: 01438 365 153
stirling
33-35 	 Murray 	 Place, 	 FK8 	 1DQ
Tel: 01786 478 945
 
stocKPort
109 	 Princes 	 Str eet, 	 SK1 	 1R W
Tel: 0161 476 5860
stocKton
107-108 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 TS18 	 1BB
Tel: 01642 616 005 
stoKe on trent
49-51 	 Staf for d 	 Str eet, 	 ST1 	 1SA
Tel: 01782 268 144 
stratforD 
Unit 	 27, 	 The 	 Mall, 	 Stratfor d 	 Centr e,	
E15 	 1XD	
Tel: 020 8519 7770 
streatham
254 	 Str eatham 	 High 	 Rd, 	 SW16 	 1HT
Tel: 020 8677 4508 
stretforD
Unit 	 44, 	 Gr ound 	 Floor 	 Br ody 	 Str eet 	 Mall,	
Str efor d 	 Mall 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 M32 	 9BB	
Tel: 0161 865 4930
sunDerlanD
26 	 Blandfor d 	 Str eet, 	 SR1 	 3JH
Tel: 0191 565 0008 
surrey quays
196 	 Lower 	 Road, 	 SE16 	 2UN
Tel: 020 7231 6177 
sutton
232 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 SM1 	 1NT
Tel: 020 8643 9994
sutton in ashfielD
Unit 	 44, 	 Idlewells 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,
NG17 	 1BJ
Tel: 01623 559 596
swinDon
46 	 Bridge 	 Str eet, 	 SN1 	 1BL
Tel: 01793 491 731
 
syDenham 
37 	 Sydenham 	 Road, 	 SE26 	 5EX	
Tel: 020 8778 4964 
tooting
63 	 Mitcham 	 Road, 	 SW17 	 9PB	
Tel: 020 8672 5127 
tooting Junction
20-22 	 London 	 Road, 	 SW17 	 9HW
Tel: 020 8640 7575
tottenham
518 	 High 	 Road, 	 N17 	 9SX
Tel: 020 8808 0600
tueBrooK
549 	 W est 	 Derby 	 Road, 	 L13 	 8AD	
Tel: 0151 228 9298
uxBriDge
Unit 	 11 	 Chequers 	 Squar e, 	 The 	 Mall, 	 UB8 	 1LN
Tel: 01895 230 503
wallsenD
28 	 High 	 Str eet 	 East, 	 NE28 	 8PQ
Tel: 0191 234 5769 
walsall
8 	 The 	 Bridge, 	 WS1 	 1LR
Tel: 01922 638 501 
walthamstow 
234 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 E17 	 7JH
Tel: 020 8521 8156
walton v ale
27 	 W alton 	 V ale, 	 Liverpool, 	 L9 	 4RE
Tel: 0151 525 5182
walworth
389 	 W alworth 	 Road, 	 SE17 	 2A W
Tel: 020 7703 2946
walworth
241 	 W alworth 	 Road, 	 SE17 	 1RL
Tel: 020 7277 4809
waterloo
111 	 Lower 	 Marsh, 	 SE1 	 7AE
Tel: 020 7928 0382
watforD
114 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 WD17 	 2GW
Tel: 01923 247 740
welling
3 	 Bellegr ove 	 Road, 	 DA16 	 3P A
Tel: 020 8303 3645
wemBley
544 High Road, HA0 2AA
Tel: 020 8795 5811
west Bromwich
64 	 Kings 	 Squar e 	 (High 	 Str eet),	
Sandwell 	 Centr e, 	 B70 	 7NW
Tel: 0121 553 2728
west ealing
102 	 The 	 Br oadway, 	 W13 	 0SY
Tel: 020 8567 2016
wigan
21 	 Hope 	 Str eet, 	 Galleries 	 Shopping 	 Centr e,	
WN1 	 1QF	
Tel: 01942 237 518
willesDen
70 	 High 	 Road, 	 NW10 	 2PU
Tel: 020 8459 3527
wolverhamPton
10a 	 Cleveland 	 Str eet, 	 WV1 	 3HH
Tel: 01902 425 648
wolverhamPton 
15-16 	 Queen 	 Str eet, 	 WV1 	 3JW	
Tel: 01902 424 908
wooD green
12 Cheapside, N22 6HH
Tel: 020 8889 9484
woolwich
4 	 Powis 	 Str eet, 	 SE18 	 6LF
Tel: 020 8317 9265
worcester ParK 
148 Central Road, KT4 8HH 
Tel: 020 8337 7307
worKsoP
27-29 	 Bridge 	 Str eet, 	 S80 	 1DA
Tel: 01909 488 584 
wythenshawe
Unit 1D, Hale Top, Civic Centre, M22 5RN
Tel: 0161 498 8431 Times House
Thr owley 	 W ay
Sutton
Surr ey
SM1 	 4AF
Tel: 0870 9022 600
www.handt.co.uk
h&t group plc
