 The UK’s leading pawnbroker
Meeting customers changing needs
H&T Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Cautionary statement
This annual report of H&T Group plc (“H&T”, “the Group”, “the Company”) contains some forward-looking information and  
statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including statements about the Group’ s plans, objectives and  
intentions. The information and statements contained herein are stated as at the date of this report and there  
exists the risk that actual results and outcomes may differ from the information and statements made.
Financial Overview
Gross profit 
£49.9m
(2012: £62.3m)
EBITDA* 
£11.7m
(2012: £21.3m)
Profit before  
tax
£6.7m
(2012: £17.0m)
Diluted  
EPS
13.40p
(2012: 35.52p)
Proposed dividend 
per share
4.8p
(2012: 11.85p)
Proposed final 
dividend
2.7p
(2012: 8.05p)
*  Earnings Before Interest T ax Depreciation and Amortisation
Key Performance Indicators
No. of Pawnbroking 
stores
160
122
135
186
194
09 10 11 12 13
194 stores  
in 2013
(2012: 186 stores)
Retail margin
(%)
49.2
49.5
44.9
49.0
39.8
09 10 11 12 13
39.8%  
in 2013
(2012: 49.0%)
Retail sales
(£m)
20.0
16.4
19.6
20.1
24.9
09 10 11 12 13
£24.9m 
in 2013
(2012: £20.1m)
Redemption of 
annual lending (%)
75.3
74.9
76.0
75.6
75.5
09 10 11 12 13
75.5%  
in 2013
(2012: 75.3%)*
Pledge book  
(£m)
46.6
37.9
39.5
51.6
44.1
09 10 11 12 13
£44.1m
in 2013 (2012: £51.6m)
Gold purchase 
margin (%)
31.4
39.9
36.1
23.3
19.5
09 10 11 12 13
19.5%  
in 2013
(2012: 23.3%)
*  This is the actual percentage of lending in each year which was redeemed or renewed, the 2013 figure is an estimate based on recent trend and early performance.
Jewellery retail enhanced through new point of sale, pricing policy and stock replenishment
Foreign Exchange rolled out to all stores
Buy Back of high end electronics rolled out to all stores
In store Pay Day Loans and KwikLoan replaced with a new flexible personal loan
Operational Highlights
Service Performance
2013 Mystery Shop Results
Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 T otal
Number of Mystery Shops 190 192 191 193 194 960
Average Score 97.2% 98.4% 93.4% 97.2% 98.0% 96.8%
Stores achieving 100% score 142 144 100 140 142 668
2012 Mystery Shop Results
Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 Round 6 T otal
Number of Mystery Shops 161 167 173 175 177 180 1,033
Average Score 97.5% 96.1% 97.1% 95.4% 95.5% 95.9% 96.2%
Stores achieving 100% score 99 75 110 91 69 99 543 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
01
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FIn AnCIA l S TATEm EnTS
provides a range of simple 
and accessible financial 
products tailored for a 
customer base who have limited access 
to, or are excluded from, the traditional 
banking and finance sector.
STRATEGIC REPoRT
Financial Overview, Key Performance Indicators,  
  Operational Highlights and Service Performance  IFC
Chairman’s Statement   02
The business at a glance   04
What is pawnbroking?   06
Valuations, how H&T manage the process  07
Our Customers   08
Our Communities   09
Our People   10
Chief Executive’s Review   12
Expansion of the Store Estate   16
Finance Director’s Review   17
Risks and Uncertainties   18
Strategic Report Approval   20
DIRECTo RS’ REPoRT 
Directors, Officers and Advisers   21
Corporate Governance   23
Directors’ Report   25
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement  30
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Independent auditor’s report on the group financial  
  statements to the members of H&T Group plc   31
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  32
Consolidated statement of changes in equity   33
Consolidated balance sheet   34
Consolidated cash flow statement   35
Notes to the consolidated financial statements   36
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
  of H&T Group plc   68
Company balance sheet   69
Company combined reconciliation of movements  
  in shareholders’ funds and statements of  
  movements on reserves   70
Notes to the company financial statements   71
Store directory   74
Innovation 
With the introduction of Foreign Currency Exchange to all stores  
in the year.
Excellent store standards  
High standards in stores in terms of staff, customer service and the 
store environment. 
Expansion in the store estate  
8 new stores added during the year, taking our national footprint  
to 194 stores. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
02
The Group has responded well to a rapidly changing market through effective cash 
management, cost control and alterations to business mix. The Group remains the 
leading pawnbroker in the UK and during 2013 served in excess of 180,000 customers 
with over £100m in pawnbroking loans.
Chairman’s Statement
Economic and Market Background
The UK pawnbroking industry has experienced 
a difficult past twelve months. Reduced 
volumes of gold in circulation, a 29% year 
on year fall in the sterling gold price and the 
heightened competitive environment have 
all contributed to reduce returns on capital. 
Regulatory challenges across the wider 
alternative credit industry have added to 
financial pressures.
Retail store expansion has therefore all but 
ceased for many businesses within the 
industry, with operators seeking instead to 
conserve capital, strengthen balance sheets, 
dispose of marginal stores and focus on 
maximising existing store contributions. 
Pawnbrokers have re-focussed on generating 
recurring revenues as opposed to a reliance on 
gold purchasing and on maximising disposition 
values via retail operations.
Our Group has responded well by reducing 
net debt and increasing retail sales significantly 
to counter falling revenues from scrap 
disposition. With the largest pledge book in 
the UK providing a stable source of recurring 
revenues the Group is well placed to benefit 
from any potential industry rationalisation or 
consolidation.
Strategy
Our Group offers immediate access to cash 
from attractive and convenient high street 
locations, as well as an on-line offering. We 
strive to be the UK’s pawnbroker of choice, 
meeting customers’ financial needs by offering 
loans secured against high quality jewellery 
and watches. By building close relationships 
and lending responsibly we aim to facilitate 
high redemption rates and high levels of repeat 
business.
The retail of quality jewellery attracts 
customers, informs them of the collateral we 
seek for pawnbroking and generates good 
margins on the disposition of forfeited items. 
We will further strengthen our retail of jewellery. 
This move is one of a series of steps we will 
take to reduce the impact of gold price volatility 
on our business.
Financial Performance
The Group delivered profit before tax of £6.7m 
in 2013, down from £17.0m in 2012. The 29% 
decline in the sterling price of gold accounted 
for the majority of this fall, significantly 
impacting the Group’s revenues from the sale 
of scrap gold.
The Group has taken a measured approach to 
cost reductions during 2013 in light of reduced 
earnings and as a result the cost base in 2013 
was lower than 2012 despite a larger footprint. 
We would expect the costs to be lower again 
in 2014 as the full year effect of the savings is 
realised.
The falling gold price has provided an 
opportunity in retail as our jewellery has 
become relatively more affordable. The Group 
has increased focus on this disposition route in 
H2 13 and I am pleased to report that Q4 2013 
like-for-like retail sales were up 56% year on 
year. Retail will play an increasingly important 
part in our business model going forward with 
the increased margins it affords.
The Group experienced a decline of 14.5% in 
the pledge book to £44.1m as at 31 December 
2013 (2012: £51.6m) principally as a result of 
the competitive environment. Pawnbroking is 
core to the business and we have responded 
to this decline by measured expansion in the 
asset classes we take as security, additional 
staff training and expert support on quality 
watches and gemstones together with 
focussed marketing efforts.
1 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
03
STRATEGIC REPORT
As a board we are strategically reviewing 
other product developments aimed at helping 
mitigate the effect of gold price volatility on our 
business.
During the year, 5 new pawnbroking stores 
were opened and 3 were acquired resulting in 
194 trading units at year end. We anticipate a 
small number of store closures during the year, 
reflecting the shifting footfall on the UK’s high 
streets, new opportunities will equally arrive to 
improve our footprint in favourable economic 
locations. 
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet 
strength has progressed well during the year 
and at 31 December 2013 Group net debt 
was £20.7m (31 Dec 12: £27.6m). Cash 
management remains a priority for the Group 
as we seek to establish an appropriate level of 
headroom both to de-risk the business and to 
enable us to take acquisition opportunities as 
they arise.
Basic earnings per share are 13.44 pence 
(2012: 35.92 pence).
Regulation
The regulation of consumer credit is moving 
from the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) to 
the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in 
April 2014. The Group is well prepared for 
the transition and we welcome the higher 
standards that this change will bring to our 
sector.
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, a final 
dividend of 2.7 pence per ordinary share 
(2012: 8.05 pence) will be paid on 6 June 2014 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 9 May 2014. The shares will be 
marked ex-dividend on 7 May 2014. This will 
bring the full year dividend to 4.8 pence per 
ordinary share (2012: 11.85 pence).
The reduced dividend reflects the lower 
earnings in the year and the Group’s intention 
to maintain appropriate earnings cover in light 
of current trading conditions.
Prospects
Our sector has witnessed two significantly 
adverse events in 2013; one the falling gold 
price, the other the regulatory and market 
issues around pay day lending. As a result 
all of the larger providers have suffered 
material reductions in earnings. This pressure 
on earnings is further compounded by the 
expansion in high street provision in recent 
years, an expansion that reached its peak 
in 2012, which in turn increases competitive 
pressure. The Board’s view is that the 
current number of stores in the industry is 
unsustainable and that 2014 will be a year of 
consolidation and rationalisation; indeed we 
have already seen a number of store closures 
and would expect to see more.
In this new market we believe it is critical to 
maintain the high operating standards we 
have developed over many years, to drive 
efficiencies in the business and seek to expand 
the products and services that have been more 
recently introduced. We believe that we are well 
positioned in the sector in terms of financial 
stability and business model to take advantage 
of the opportunities as and when they arise.
Key to achieving these aims is the loyalty of our 
customers; this is achieved through the hard 
work and support of our staff, whom I thank  
on behalf of the Board and shareholders.
I would also take this opportunity to thank 
Alex Maby for his work in the last five years in 
his role as Finance Director. I am pleased to 
have Steve Fenerty, formerly our Commercial 
Director, as his successor.
Peter D McNamara
Chairman
1.  Our Nottingham Store
2.  Our Sona Loans
TM
 store in Southall
3.  The internal retail area of one of our stores
4.  Our Blackburn store with sail sign 
marketing
2
4
3 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
04
The business at a glance
Pawnbroking
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item 
of value with a term of up to six months. 
H&T value the item(s) based on weight and 
the precious metal or stones used in its 
manufacture. The customer agrees on a loan 
amount and enters into a consumer credit 
agreement. The agreement is for a period of 
6 months and the customer can redeem the 
goods at any point during this time providing 
that they repay the original loan amount plus 
any interest due. At the end of the contract, 
they also have the option to extend the loan for 
a further six months. If the customer chooses 
not to redeem or renew the loan, H&T then 
take action to dispose of the goods.
Jewellery retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-
hand jewellery and watches sourced from our 
pledge book, purchased over the counter or 
purchased from suppliers. All H&T’s jewellery 
is professionally cleaned, restored and valued 
at the Group’s refurbishment centre in Kent 
before being re-distributed for sale to stores 
across the country. All members of the H&T 
staff are trained to a high standard to assist 
customers in choosing individual pieces to 
suit their requirements, a skill which of course 
enables them to make the right loan in the first 
place.
As at 31 December 2013, H&T was the largest pawnbroking business in the 
UK by size of pledge book.
H&T has existed in some form since the late 1800’s and over the years has 
built or acquired some of the oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the UK. 
Indeed the store in Edinburgh has operated from the same building for over 
150 years serving the same community .
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on the Alternative Investment Market 
(“AIM”) providing the group with access to new sources of finance and 
allowing the provision of equity based incentivisation to employees. 
Since then H&T has accelerated its development by adding new 
products and services and expanding the store network by 125 stores 
to 194 at 31 December 2013.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and 
will continue to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the 
development and retention of staff and the ongoing development  
of existing and new products together with expansion in locations. 
Gold purchasing
Gold purchasing is a simple way for customers 
to use their unwanted gold to raise some cash. 
The process is straightforward with the store 
assessing the items, agreeing a price with the 
customer and purchasing the goods for cash 
on the spot. Customers can also sell watches 
and diamonds to H&T which of course sets us 
apart from other providers in the market. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
05
STRATEGIC REPORT
Personal Loans
Personal Loans are a simple and innovative 
way for customers to obtain an unsecured loan 
of up to £1,000. They offer complete flexibility 
on the length of loan and regular repayments, 
depending on the personal circumstances 
of each customer. Before issuing a loan we 
establish the customer’s identity, confirm their 
income and employment and complete an 
affordability assessment. If approved then the 
customer enters into a consumer credit loan 
agreement and we will collect the repayments 
on the dates agreed with the customer.
Pre-paid debit card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for 
customers to have the functionality of a 
Mastercard without the associated credit, 
giving them the freedom to shop online, over 
the phone or in store. As there is no loan or 
credit involved the application process is simple 
and the acceptance rate is 100%. Customers 
leave the store with an ATM only card and the 
personalised Mastercard arrives in the post 
shortly after. Cash can then be loaded to the 
card at over 14,000 locations across the UK, 
including any H&T store or Post Office branch.
Buy Back
Increasingly, a younger generation of 
customers are seeking the opportunity to raise 
cash from electronic items such as phones, 
tablets, laptops and game consoles. To take 
advantage of this new asset class, H&T has 
developed its Buy Back offer. Customers can 
sell their electronic items to H&T for cash and 
buy the item back within 31 days. H&T restrict 
the types of item purchased to current models 
of the most popular items.
Western Union
Every year millions of people worldwide 
trust Western Union to send money within 
minutes to family, friends or colleagues in other 
countries. Since H&T launched Western Union 
in 2012 it has quickly increased transaction 
numbers to over 10,000 per month and 
introduced a new customer base to H&T.
Cheque cashing
Cheque cashing is a service that allows 
customers to get cash for their cheques in a 
few minutes, rather than banking the cheque. 
Most cheques are wages cheques, although 
other types such as personal, lottery, building 
society and Giro are considered. Customers 
use H&T to speed up the cheque clearance 
(some building societies can take almost two 
weeks to clear a cheque) or to avoid banking 
the cheque into an overdrawn account. 
Customers are required to provide proof of 
identity and address in order to use the service.
Foreign exchange
H&T offer a foreign exchange service at highly 
competitive rates and with no commission 
charges, further establishing one of our 
core strengths of offering great value to the 
customer. Not only does offering this additional 
service make currency exchange easier for 
our customers, but we’re also broadening our 
appeal to a new audience. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
06
Pawnbroking is quite simply a loan secured on an item of value. Traditionally 
pawnbrokers would accept almost anything of value in order to secure the 
loan. The H&T pawnbroking offer is mainly based on jewellery as it is compact, 
high worth and can be valued and if necessary resold relatively easily .
What is pawnbroking?
How does it work? 
The customer brings in the item(s) of value to 
the store and is asked to give an indication of 
how much they want to borrow. This is done in 
order to establish how realistic the customer’s 
expectation is, as the high margins charged 
by the high street jewellers can give an inflated 
perception of the value of the goods. The 
store staff then use a combination of their 
expertise and training, together with the point 
of sale system to determine if there is adequate 
security for the loan. Assuming that there is, 
the customer and H&T then enter into a credit 
agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act. This is a contract for 6 months and carries 
interest of 2.0% to 9.99% per month. The rate 
charged is dependent on local competition and 
the size of the loan.
During the contract the customer can:
• Redeem the pledge
 This means they pay H&T the value of the 
loan (whether in full or by part payments), 
plus the interest accrued to date; or
• Renew the pledge
 This means they pay H&T the interest  
only and a new loan agreement is issued  
for a further six months.
Approximately five months after the date of the 
loan we will write to the customer explaining 
that the contract is almost due and reminding 
them of the final date to redeem. We write 
again once the contract is expired to give the 
customer another opportunity to redeem or 
renew their pledge.
If the customer does not redeem or renew then 
we have to attempt to realise the value of the 
pledge to repay the loan. 
The Consumer Credit Act sets out a different 
treatment for pledges over £75 and those £75 
and under.
•	 Over 	 £75: 	 These 	 pledges 	 ar e 	 sent 	 to 	 public	
auction with a reserve price. In the event that 
the pledge is sold then H&T retains the value 
of the loan, interest to date plus a small 
administration fee. Any surplus is repaid to 
the customer.
•	 £75 	 and 	 under: 	 These 	 pledges 	 become	
the property of H&T immediately; the rules 
relating to the surplus do not apply due to 
the lower value of the items concerned.
Regardless of the outcome H&T does not 
pursue the customer in the rare circumstances 
when there is a shortfall between the amount 
due under the agreement and the amount 
recovered when the item is sold. Therefore if 
the customer is unable to redeem there will be 
no further consequences and their credit rating 
is unaffected.
As good as gold 
For some, lending money can be a 
risky business, but not for H&T. The 
loan is secured on gold, precious 
stones or watches (over 99% of our 
pawnbroking business) and that 
security is left in our possession for 
the duration of the contract. If the 
loan forfeits, then the collateral can 
be easily liquidated, in almost all 
cases at a profit. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
07
STRATEGIC REPORT
A pawnbroker advances money secured on items of value. Therefore it is 
vital that we can determine what those items are worth to ensure adequate 
security , whilst also being able to give the customer what they want.
Valuations, how H&T manage the process
1
3
2
4
H&T’s pledge book is almost entirely gold and 
diamond set jewellery, as those items are relatively 
easy to value and in the event of default they can 
be sold either through the retail window or as a 
commodity.
If we can meet the customer’s expectations 
then the item is tested with a range of acids 
to determine the metal type and carat, while 
diamonds are verified using electronic testing 
equipment. 
Our staff ask the customer how much they would 
like to borrow and perform a visual examination of 
the item. Using the weight and metal type we now 
have a good idea of what the item is worth based 
on our general lending guidelines.
The customer details and a full description of the 
item are entered to the computer system which 
calculates a range of loan values in accordance 
with Group policy. A credit agreement is produced 
and the cash issued to the customer. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
08
our Customers
Customers are at the heart of H&T’s business. H&T is built on delivering 
excellent customer service and ensuring customers are getting access to the 
cash they need in the simplest way possible. There is a very real desire of H&T 
staff to help our customers with their cash flow needs.
Use of Funds
Generally our customers use cash generated 
from an H&T loan or sale of gold to fund day-
to-day living expenses. Customers also use our 
services to solve short-term cash needs of their 
business or for more leisure-based needs.
The H&T Difference
Being part of the local community is paramount 
to H&T and the long-established culture of 
excellent customer service means staff strive 
to support, empathise and most of all dissolve 
financial worries. It is common to hear first 
names being used between assistant and 
customer; this is through a long-standing 
expectation that they are there to help during  
a time of need.
Research
H&T regularly conducts customer interviews 
to better understand what is important and 
to assess customer service standards. From 
H&T’s most recent survey with over 350 
customer interviews, over 86% rated their 
satisfaction 8 or more out of 10.
n 18-24 9%
n 25-35 26%
n 36-44 23%
n 45-55 25%
n Over 56 17%
n 18-24 14%
n 25-35 24%
n 36-44 18%
n 45-55 21%
n Over 56 23%
n Female 60%
n Male 40%
n Female 66%
n Male 34%
Gender Split:
Pawnbroking
Age Split:
Pawnbroking
Gender Split:
Gold
Purchasing
Age Split:
Gold
Purchasing
Customer feedback
The following letter was received by H&T in October 2013.
“Just bought a watch and chain from your Hastings br anch. Just some 
feedback, the staff where very professional, discreet, and a joy to do 
business with. Thank you.” 
 NM, Hastings
“Nothing is ever too much trouble for the team  
and I value the advice they give me.” 
MM, Clydebank
“I was served today by a young lady and  
gentleman in your shop . The lady was very  
knowledgeable and made shopping in your 
store a pleasure. The gentleman was also  
very helpful and both are an asset to your  
company. Great customer service!”
DY, Stoke H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
09
STRATEGIC REPORT
our Communities
At the heart of H&T’s philosophy is ‘Keep It Local’. H&T passionately believes 
that it has a duty to be involved with the local community . 
Whether fund raising for local causes, 
supporting local business community 
initiatives or getting involved with local 
networks, H&T works hard to be part 
of the local community and have some 
fun at the same time.
In 2013 H&T staff got involved in a 
wide variety of charity events up and 
down the country. From food bank 
collections, Easter Egg collections, 
a sponsored walk up Snowden, 
wrestling matches and jumble sales 
our staff have raised thousands of 
pounds for good causes. 
•	 Alice 	 in 	 W onderland 	 made 	 an 	 appearance	
at H&T Pawnbrokers in Bolton in April when 
they held a Mad Hatters Tea Party to raise 
funds for Derian House Children’s Hospice in 
Chorley. 
•	 In 	 May , 	 W edding 	 Fever 	 hit 	 H&T 	 in 	 Coventry ,	
when it hosted a wedding-themed Fun Day 
to raise money for the local Neonatal Unit. 
•	 H&T 	 teamed 	 up 	 with 	 Merseyside 	 Fir e	
Brigade for a charity car wash in July 
at Liverpool City Centre car park, with 
donations divided between local children’s 
charity KIND and the Princes Trust. 
•	 Homeless 	 charity 	 Maundy 	 Relief 	 in	
Accrington received 100 Easter Eggs 
from H&T in Blackburn, after collecting the 
eggs from local businesses and through 
donations from Blackburn customers. The 
successful Easter egg collection follows an 
H&T food bank collection in January, where 
it donated food and cash for sleeping bags 
and hot water bottles to Maundy Relief. 
•	 H&T 	 in 	 Portsmouth 	 ran 	 a 	 five-mile 	 charity 	
walk around Portsmouth and Southsea to 
raise funds for the Motor Neurone Disease 
Association (MNDA) in May 2013, including 
H&T staff, representatives from MNDA and 
even mascots Harvey and his Portsmouth 
sidekick “Pincher the dog”. 
T op Left: Supporting local food banks 
T op Right: Some of the charities we have helped
Bottom: John Nichols, staff and friends before the charity walk up Snowdon H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
10
our People
our business is all about our people and we strive to develop all our employees 
within their roles. With just under 1,000 staff, H&T is committed to helping 
its team realise their potential through continual career development and a 
blended learning programme.
H&T understands that it is vital it cares for and 
supports staff, and this in turn has a positive 
impact on meeting business objectives, helping 
H&T to achieve its strategic aims, develop new 
services and offer a great service to customers.
Our Learning and Development Department 
works closely with H&T staff to ensure they  
are technically and behaviourally competent  
to meet all the requirements of their role. 
Training & Development
H&T has developed a range of tailored training 
programmes, including a Management 
Development Programme and STAR 
programme, which are designed to develop 
and strengthen existing and potential store 
managers. These are tailored to the individual’s 
needs and comprise a combination of 
coaching and personal development exercises. 
H&T is extremely proud that these unique 
courses have been an undoubted success, 
with several managers winning national awards 
for their innovation and drive. 
 
H&T continues to design additional workshops 
and programmes. As the range of products 
and services offered by H&T expands, H&T 
needs to ensure that all staff can meet 
new customer demands and have a wider 
knowledge base. The courses aim to improve 
the technical knowledge and behavioural skills 
base, enabling managers to manage more 
effectively. Examples of courses include a focus 
on unsecured lending and buyback products. 
H&T also has an E-Learning system with a 
catalogue of learning modules that can be 
accessed from work or home by all employees. 
The system is continuously developed to 
support our commercial and compliance 
objectives. 
Investors in People (IIP)
H&T’s focus on people development has led 
to external recognition. H&T was assessed for 
IIP and is a proud owner of the Gold Award. 
IIP provides a framework for businesses 
to operate effectively through good people 
management.
NPA Awards
H&T is proud to announce that in 2013 
two H&T staff collected “Employee of the 
Year” and “Rising Star” 
Awards from the National 
Pawnbroker’s Association 
(NPA), achievements that 
demonstrate H&T’s passion 
for developing and supporting 
its people to their full potential.
Progression and Recognition
H&T’s retention strategy encourages its people 
to seek opportunities in the Company, across 
Stores and Head Office in order to enhance 
their skills. We advertise all available positions 
weekly to every employee in order to assist 
them in applying for these positions. This in 
addition to Learning & Development activities 
has meant we have had over 80% of our 
Deputy Manager and Store Manager roles  
filled internally.
n Female 439
n Male 196
Full time
n Female 285
n Male 67
Part time
n Female 724
n Male 263
T otal H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
11
STRATEGIC REPORT
As well as our competitive Pay & Benefits 
structure we recognise and reward employee 
performance by issuing quarterly and 
annual bonuses. This is in conjunction with 
seasonal incentives and profit share for over 
performance against targets. We reward 
our Managers by offering them an annual 
share option scheme to encourage them to 
participate in ownership of the company, as 
well as providing health insurance. 
Our “Total Reward” statements, launched in 
2011, detail exactly the benefits and value 
of each employee’s remuneration package. 
This also highlights the value of unsubscribed 
benefits such as a pension contribution and 
cycle-to-work scheme, to demonstrate the 
full benefits package that staff could receive. 
Feedback of our “Total Reward” statements  
is very positive. 
Other potential rewards include an innovation 
scheme whereby H&T rewards its employees 
with up to £1,000 for new ideas that are 
subsequently implemented. Many current 
procedures have been provided by our 
employees. 
We have also introduced a recruitment 
application tracking system which ensures we 
fairly evaluate all applications received and see 
the best possible candidates for relevant roles, 
allowing recruitment and retention of key talent 
for our business. 
Managers Tenure
(years of service)
12
11
23
22
26
95
0-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 5+
50.3%
of managers have over  
5 years service 
2
industry awards  
in the year H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
12
The Group’s trading, market and regulatory environment has become more 
challenging throughout 2013.
Chief Executive’s Review 
In recent years the growth in high street 
alternative credit has been fuelled by a 
combination of rising gold prices and an 
expansion in pay day loans; business models 
have evolved to maximise one or other revenue 
stream. The falling gold price coupled with 
regulatory pressure on pay day loans has 
resulted in lower earnings across the market, 
whilst the increase in store numbers puts 
pressure both on customer acquisition and 
balance sheets.
Our Group is of course no exception. The 
Group has always maintained that gold 
purchasing is not a core earnings stream and 
adequate headroom has been maintained 
between our average lending rates and the 
scrap value of gold. The Group continues to 
monitor its lending policy on a regular basis, 
with consideration of the impact on affordability 
(and therefore redemption rate), and its loan 
to value in relation to the current gold price. 
As a result of the Group’ s historic policy of 
maintaining an appropriate loan to value ratio 
we have not had to make significant changes 
to lending rates as, in the short term, that can 
damage consumer confidence.
Profit before tax in the period fell to £6.7m 
(2012: £17.0m) principally as a result of the 
lower gold price impacting on pawnbroking 
scrap revenues and gold purchasing gross 
profit. As a consequence, our priority in H2 13 
has been to improve retail sales as the way to 
maximise disposition margins, reduce net debt 
and reduce costs. I am pleased to report good 
progress with all of these initiatives.
During Q4 2013 our like-for-like retail sales 
were up 56% on prior year with gross profit up 
18% and this momentum has been sustained 
into early 2014. Costs have been reduced as 
planned and our net debt, as at 31 December 
2013, has reduced to £20.7m from £27.6m 
at 31 December 2012; net debt has reduced 
still further since year end to £18.5m as at 31 
January 2014. Our total operating costs were 
£44.2m in 2012, reducing to £42.3m in 2013 
despite increasing the store count to 194 at 31 
December 2013.
Since 2008 the Group has opened 92 new 
stores and closed only two. The Group expects 
that as a result of the lower returns now being 
delivered from stores there will be a small 
number of closures in 2014.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Pawn Service Charge
The Group’ s Pawn Service Charge grew to 
£28.8m (2012: £28.4m) and now represents 
54.3% of Group gross profit (2012: 45.6%).
While it is pleasing to note growth in our Pawn 
Service Charge in every year since flotation, 
the Group’ s key performance indicators are 
not performing as we would wish. Increased 
competitive pressure at the Group’ s older stores 
and reduced security by way of the lower gold 
price have contributed to lending remaining flat 
year on year despite the increased contribution 
from recent store openings. On a like-for-like 
basis, lending fell by 6.3% year on year.
The possibility of a further reduction in quantities 
of gold in circulation remains a concern for the 
Group and supports our drive to widen the 
asset base upon which we lend. Of the £104m 
lent in 2013, the Group lent £7.2m on watches 
and £14.8m on gem set items. Increasingly, a 
younger generation of customers are seeking 
the opportunity to raise cash from electronic 
items such as phones, tablets, laptops and 
game consoles. T aking advantage of this 
‘asset’ class the Group now offers a Buy Back 
service, whereby customers can sell their 
electronic items to H&T for cash and enter into 
an agreement to buy the item back within 31 
days. This service is now offered in all of H&T’ s 
stores. In order to manage risk goods taken 
are restricted to current models with clear 
routes of disposition. During the year the Group 
purchased £0.7m of high-end electronics using 
Buy Back. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
13
STRATEGIC REPORT
In addition to the Buy Back service, other key 
initiatives to drive customer numbers in 2013, 
included:
•	 Focus 	 on 	 incr easing 	 lending 	 on 	 watches 	 and	
gemset jewellery, up 5.7% on 2012;
•	 The 	 launch 	 of 	 Sona 	 Loans
TM
, the 
pawnbroking service specifically for the 
Asian community, the first of its kind in the 
UK;
•	 The 	 launch 	 of 	 for eign 	 exchange 	 in 	 all 	 stor es,	
the service brought 31,730 new customers 
to H&T in 2013;
•	 Pr oduction 	 of 	 lapsed 	 customer 	 mailers,	
including a retail discount offering as a 
means of replenishing customer’s assets;
•	 Engagement 	 with 	 the 	 local 	 community	
through the Keep it Local campaign 
where stores are coordinating activity to 
reinvigorate the local high street and engage 
with local business groups and charities.
The reduced gold price has placed pressure 
on loan to value ratios in the year as we seek 
to maintain adequate security in the loan 
whilst also being competitive to attract new 
customers. We have historically managed loan 
to value well such that even with the reduced 
gold price our historic loans still have adequate 
security. We believe this provides a competitive 
advantage in the short term as other providers 
must alter lending rates significantly to control 
their exposure.
Retail
Competitive pressure on lending rates and 
the reduced gold price have combined to 
significantly reduce the viability of melting stock 
as a source of profitable disposition of excess 
stock. Retail has accordingly seen significant 
additional focus in H2 13, acting both as a 
hedge against a falling gold price and as a 
means of supporting our loan valuations.
I am pleased to report that sales have 
increased by 24% year on year to £24.9m 
(2012: £20.1m) with most growth occurring 
in H2 2013. Continued capital investment into 
bright and welcoming stores, together with 
the increased working capital invested in stock 
levels provide the Group with a solid base 
from which to further grow retail sales. Other 
initiatives include a rebranding across a small 
number of trial stores, improved point of sale 
materials in store and allowing store managers 
greater operational flexibility in store. All of the 
above has led to a dramatic upturn in retail 
sales as evidenced by our quarterly like-for-like 
sales performance versus prior year: Q1 13: 
-20%; Q2 13: -4%, Q3 13: 7%; Q4 13: 56%.
The retail margin fell from 49.0% in 2012 to 
39.8% in 2013. This decrease is due to an 
increased cost of goods resulting from higher 
lending rates in 2012 and repricing to reflect 
the lower gold price. Our focus is to use retail 
to drive additional gross profit and support our 
lending proposition by providing a profitable 
disposition route for unredeemed goods. 
We would not necessarily expect a return to 
historic margins without adversely impacting 
volume of sales.
Pawnbroking Scrap
Pawnbroking scrap profits totalled £1.8m 
(2012: £7.4m). Splitting this into half yearly 
performances reveals the impact of the gold 
price fall. In H1 13, profits were £1.9m with a 
margin of 23%, while in H2 13 losses totalled 
£0.1m on sales of £6.7m.
At the current gold price and current average 
lent rate on items forfeited (which is circa 12% 
higher than the Group’s average overall lending 
rate), the Group is not expecting to make a 
margin on pawnbroking scrap for at least 
the next six months until lending rates are re-
adjusted. The Group is currently focussing on 
maximising its pawn service charge subject to 
managing lending rates to ensure affordability 
and therefore high rates of redemption. Retail 
sales, as discussed, will be the key disposition 
route.
Gold Purchasing
Gold Purchasing profits declined from £12.0m 
in 2012 to £4.8m in 2013. This decrease is 
attributable to four key factors:
i. A lower gold price year on year. At 31 
December 2013 the sterling gold price was 
£727 per troy ounce (31 Dec 12: £1,020). 
This 29% fall directly impacts on the gross 
profits of each transaction. The declining 
gold price, due to the lag between purchase 
and sale, has also led to a lower margin than 
would have been achieved in a stable price 
environment.
n  Pawnbroking (includes  
retail and scrap) 81.2%
n Gold purchasing  9.6%
n Financial Services 9.2%
Gross profit 
breakdown
New store openings
as a % of the estate at  
31 December 2013
End of period sterling  
gold price 
(£ per troy oz)
6.2
6.2
8.8
12.4
10.3
2.6
897.7
604.9
673.4
985.1
1,019.7
727.2
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
14
ii. Closure of Gold Bar operations. The Group’s 
retail mall units contributed £0.7m to gold 
purchasing profits in 2013 as compared 
to £3.1m in 2012 as the Group has 
gradually exited this operation. Closing units 
throughout the year due to the flexible and 
short-term basis upon which the operation 
was founded, the Group now has no retail 
mall units in operation.
iii. Volume decline. Underlying gold purchasing 
volumes, or in other words, the weight of 
gold purchased, have been in decline for the 
last 2 ½ years. Over the last twelve months, 
it is estimated that the decline across the 
Group’s store estate was 26%. The Group 
has always viewed gold purchasing as a 
short term opportunity rather than a core 
earnings stream.
iv. Improved retail sales. A greater percentage 
of gold purchased has been disposed of via 
the Group’s retail operations as opposed to 
being melted and therefore recorded within 
gold purchasing revenues. During Q4 2013 
the cost of goods sold through the retail 
channel was up by 118% on prior year.
We believe, that as well as remaining 
competitive on pricing, the Group’s longevity in 
this market is helping to build brand recognition 
and trust among our customers.
Cheque Cashing
Cheque Cashing income fell to £3.3m (2012: 
£3.7m) due to the withdrawal from Pay Day 
Loans and reduced numbers of third party 
cheques in circulation.
The largest part of the decline was in Pay Day 
Loans which is no longer offered in our stores 
in favour of the more flexible personal loans 
offering that replaced KwikLoan. The Group 
expects that Pay Day Loans will continue to 
face regulatory scrutiny and pressure and 
notes that the FCA has committed to capping 
the number of rollovers to two and, after 
government intervention, a cap on their interest 
rates. These controls will impact significantly 
on providers of these services and we believe 
that this can create further opportunities for the 
business as we establish our personal loans 
offering.
Personal Loans
The Group has replaced the KwikLoan 
product in stores with a new more flexible 
personal loans offering. The new product 
enables a customer to choose a loan amount 
of up to £1,000, subject to affordability, and 
a repayment term of up to two years. The 
new product is supported by new in-store 
applications systems, central underwriting and 
an enhanced administration and collections 
system. We plan to launch this offering online 
during 2014.
The loan book, net of provisions, increased to 
£2.0m at the year-end (2012: £1.2m).
REGULATION
The regulation of consumer credit is moving 
from the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in April 
2014. The FCA has issued consultation 
documents on the new regime and plans to 
publish a final Consumer Credit sourcebook 
in March 2014. The FCA expects that all 
credit businesses will comply with the core 
FCA requirements in terms of the principles 
and management standards from April 2014 
but there will be a period of six months to 
comply fully with the new Consumer Credit 
sourcebook. 
There are a number of specific provisions 
within the new regime relating to High Cost 
Short Term Credit, designed to impact Pay Day 
Loans and we expect further requirements to 
emerge in due course. The Group has now 
withdrawn fully from Pay Day Loans. At present 
the current regulations and legislation relating 
to pawnbroking have been transferred to the 
new regime without significant changes. We 
do not expect the interest rate cap to impact 
pawnbroking at this point.
The Group has employed a Compliance 
Manager to supplement and enhance the 
existing compliance functions within the 
business and ensure that we manage through 
this significant change successfully.
BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
The Group seeks to retain its position as the 
UK’s leading pawnbroker by providing easy 
access to cash and other related services 
in a fair, safe and friendly environment that 
exceeds the expectations of our customers. 
The Group aims to maintain its high levels 
of repeat custom with a continued focus on 
brand recognition, excellent customer service, 
Chief Executive’s Review continued H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
15
STRATEGIC REPORT
investment in the existing store estate and 
maintaining its reputation for fairness and 
honesty. 
The Group believes that the demand for small 
sum, short term cash loans remains strong and 
by increasing the range of assets it accepts, by 
developing an attractive unsecured loan offer 
and through better marketing it can continue 
to succeed as the market adjusts in 2014. The 
successful introduction of new services such 
as Western Union and FX drives footfall to our 
stores enabling the Group to communicate its 
range of services to a wider customer base 
whilst also providing incremental revenue.
Current trading is in line with management’s 
expectations for 2014 and in particular the 
growth in retail seen in Q4 2013 has continued 
into early 2014. 
I would also like to add my great thanks to 
those of the Chairman, in recognising all 
our people whose skills, commitment and 
enthusiasm continue to drive our success,  
and who give us confidence in the future. 
John G Nichols
Chief Executive
The Group believes  
that the demand for  
small sum, short term 
cash loans remains 
strong.
56%
increase in retail sales  
in Quarter 4
25%
reduction in net debt  
to £20.7m H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
16
l  2013 stores
l  2009-2012 stores
l  2008 prior stores
London
London boroughs
H&T’s geographical development follows a clustering model. This is principally due 
to the need to support new stores with existing operational management and staff to 
maximise returns.
Expansion of the Store Estate
Practically, this means that where we enter 
a new market there are two main phases of 
development. The first is the initial acquisition 
or greenfield store followed by a period 
of development to provide a stable and 
successful team. The second phase is the 
consolidation of that market through the 
creation of a discrete area containing 8 to  
15 stores. 
This strategy has been demonstrated with 
focussed development in Glasgow, the North 
East and the North West.
The wider market is now experiencing lower 
returns due to a number of factors which will 
slow expansion in the short term as operators 
drive efficiency and a degree of consolidation. 
This is expected to provide acquisition 
opportunities for stores and for loan books.
A net 8 stores were added in 2013 (2012: 26) 
taking the total store estate size to 194 stores.
5 year growth in stores
n Acquisition 
n Greenfield
24
17
12
20
5 3
6
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
1 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
17
STRATEGIC REPORT
For the year ended 31 December 2013 we have delivered £6.7m profit before tax, 
down from £17.0m in 2012 primarily as a result of the reduced gold price and 
competitive environment.
Finance Director’s Review
The Group has taken a measured approach 
to cost reduction in the year resulting in total 
direct and administrative expenses being 
£1.9m lower than 2012 despite having more 
stores in operation. The reduction is mainly 
as a result of the closure of the GoldBar gold 
buying units as we took advantage of the 
flexible license arrangements and exited the 
units as they became unprofitable.
The Group had taken the decision to close 7 
stores at 31 December 2013 and has provided 
a total of £729k in respect of the total expected 
costs of closure.
Finance costs reduced to £842k (2012: 
£1,532k) as a result of improved terms on 
the new four year credit agreement signed in 
January 2013 together with a lower average 
loan balance through the year.
Cash Flow
The Group generated positive cash flow from 
operating activities of £15.4m (2012: £11.4m) 
despite lower earnings mainly due to a £10.2m 
improvement in working capital movements. 
The total working capital movement in the 
year was an inflow of £6.9m compared to an 
outflow of £3.3m in the prior year, the main 
component of these movements being the 
change in the pledge balance.
Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2013 the Group had net 
assets of £88.1m (2012: £86.8m) with period 
end net debt of £20.7m (2012: £27.6m) 
delivering a reduction in gearing to 23.5% 
(2012: 31.8%)(see note 27). This reduction was 
planned in order to de-risk the balance sheet in 
light of the challenging market conditions.
On 30 January 2013 the Group entered into 
a new 4 year facility with Lloyds TSB Bank 
allowing for maximum borrowings of £50m, 
subject to covenants, at a margin of between 
1.25% and 2.25% above LIBOR. At year end 
£26m was drawn on the facility, the Group was 
well within the covenants with a net debt to 
EBITDA ratio of 1.78x and interest to EBITDA 
ratio of 17.44x. 
The combination of low gearing and a secure 
long term credit facility provides the Group 
with the ability to make selective investments 
in the future whilst maintaining appropriate 
headroom.
Investments 
During the year the Group completed 
acquisitions comprising 3 stores and 
4 pawnbroking loan books for a total 
consideration of £2.4m. The Group also 
opened 5 new stores during the year taking  
the total store estate to 194 units.
Impairment
The reduced gold price has impacted the 
earnings of the Group and of the stores that 
have been acquired historically. The Group 
performs an annual review of the expected 
earnings of each acquired store and considers 
whether the associated goodwill and other 
fixed assets are impaired. As at 31 December 
2013 the Group impaired the value of 4 stores 
which were acquired in 2012 and 2013. The 
total value of the impairment was £517k.
Share Price and EPS
At 31 December 2013 the share price 
was 143.5p (2012: 281.0p) and market 
capitalisation was £52.9m (2012: £102.8m). 
Basic earnings per share was 13.44p (2012: 
35.92p), diluted earnings per share was 
13.40p (2012: 35.52p) and diluted net assets 
per share equated to 243p (2012: 239p). 
The Group’s market value fell below net 
asset value during the year as pressure on 
earnings reduced market confidence. The 
Group believes that the action taken to drive 
alternative earning streams, control costs and 
de-risk the balance sheet will build confidence 
going forward.
Steve Fenerty
Finance Director H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
18
The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures that these are 
appropriately managed by the executive management team. 
Risks and Uncertainties
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the 
Group’ s risk management framework, including
reviewing its effectiveness, however it has 
delegated responsibility for annually reviewing 
the overall effectiveness of the risk management 
programme to the Audit Committee. The 
internal audit function provides assurance to 
the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the 
internal control procedures through completion 
of the annual internal audit plan, which takes 
into account current business risks.
The table below sets out the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group and how 
we mitigate them. This is not an exhaustive 
analysis of all the risks the Group may face as 
there may be additional risks and uncertainties 
that are not presently known to the Board 
or have not been included in this section on 
the basis that they are not considered to be 
material.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Area Description of risk Examples of mitigating activities
Regulatory 
Compliance
Failure to comply leads to action by the 
regulator ranging from fines to revocation  
of credit license
Membership of Trade Associations to ensure the business is aware of 
current requirements
Experienced management team with significant industry experience and 
knowledge
Extensive training and monitoring
Use of standard approved documentation
High quality software systems to support compliant behaviour
Internal Audit and Compliance functions
Pawnbroking Increasing competition Continual monitoring at store level
Expansion strategy to maintain H & T’s position as one of the industry key 
players
Maintenance of a high level of customer service
Potential changes in regulatory environment Continual monitoring and lobbying
Fall in the gold price affecting existing pledge 
security and future lending levels
Monitoring of gold price
Maintenance of appropriate margin between pledge value and gold price
Lending on alternative high value items
Fall in the gold price affecting scrap margin Review possible use of hedging instruments
Focus on increasing redemption rates to minimise reliance on disposition
Increase retail sales as a disposition hedge
Decline in retail sales Excess stock scrapped to recover value lent
Fall in pawnbroking redemption Increase in disposition through retail, auction and scrap activities
Increased availability of gold purchasing option 
for consumers
Pawnbroking is a long established business model, with pawnbroking 
customers being distinct from purchasing customers
Experienced management team with significant industry knowledge
Cash, pledge 
book and retail 
inventory
Physical security of all assets High level of investment in security systems
Insurance
Insufficient pledge securities Staff training and pledge tests
Monitoring of established lending criteria
Internal audit function reviewing individual pledges on average twice a year
Cheque cashing 
and unsecured 
lending
Significant worsening of bad debts Investment in IT systems
Staff training
Continual monitoring of bad debts and lending criteria
Decline in third party cheque encashment 
business
On-going reduction in overall business mix  and replacement by new 
services and products H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
19
STRATEGIC REPORT
Area Description of risk Examples of mitigating activities
Gold  
purchasing
Increasing competition impacting on volumes 
purchased and margins achieved
Constant monitoring of competitor’s pricing
Progressive marketing strategies
Fall in the sterling gold price adversely 
impacting scrap margins
Adjust purchase price offered to compensate for market movements in  
gold price
Possible use of hedging instruments
Business 
operations
Back office and communication systems failure Established IT disaster recovery plan
Systems designed with no single point of failure
People Succession, retention and capability High investment in on-going training
Performance related pay package
Share-based incentive plans
Safety & security of employees being placed 
at threat
No. of in store deterrents to deter violent intruders (CCTV , alarms,  
safes, fog)
Employer and public liability insurance in place
Group policy of no remonstration
Financing Potential increase in cost of financing due to 
borrowings being on a floating rate
Use of hedging instruments where appropriate (interest rate swap)
Bank funding is subject to strict financial 
covenants
Regular forecasting exercise and regular communication with the  
financing bank
Financing bank going bankrupt Review of existing financing facilities and possible use of syndicated 
banking 
Financial risk management objectives  
and policies
The Group’ s activities expose it to a number of 
financial risks including interest rate risk, credit 
risk, liquidity risk and price risk. The use of 
financial derivatives is governed by the Group’ s 
policies approved by the board of directors, 
which provide written principles on the use 
of financial derivatives to manage these risks. 
The Group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
A summary of the principal financial risks is 
provided below. Further detailed discussion is 
provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
Interest rate risk
The Group’ s activities expose it primarily to 
the financial risks of changes in interest rates. 
Finance costs have reduced as a result of 
lower interest rates and lower loan balances 
and at present the Board does not consider it 
necessary to enter into a hedging arrangement. 
This position is reviewed by the Board on a 
regular basis.
Credit risk
The Group’ s principal financial assets are bank 
balances and cash, trade and other receivables. 
The Group’ s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables, the most significant of 
which are the pledge book, the KwikLoan loan 
book, Payday Advances and Cheque Cashing 
balances. In all cases, exposure on trade and 
other receivables is spread over a large number 
of counterparties and customers.
The risk attributable to the pledge book is 
further mitigated due to the presence of 
collaterals (the customer’ s pledges) which can 
be easily liquidated in almost all cases at a 
profit. 
The risks attached to the unsecured KwikLoan 
loan book are mitigated by the continual 
monitoring of bad debts and a possible 
modification of lending criteria. The Group 
performs an external credit check prior to 
lending. Similar procedures mitigate the risks 
associated with Cheque Cashing activities.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet 
are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. 
An allowance for impairment is made where 
there is an identified loss event which, based on 
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative 
financial instruments is considered to be low 
as funds are held with financial institutions with 
high credit-ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies to the Group’ s bankers 
as shown below:
 Moody’s credit rating
Barclays Bank plc A2
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc A3
Lloyds TSB Bank plc A2
The Group has no significant concentration of 
credit risk other than on net bank balances of 
£335,000 (2012: £329,000) with Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc, £933,000 with Barclays Bank plc 
(2012: £3,753,000) and £75,000 (2012: £nil) 
with Lloyds TSB Bank plc. 
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
20
Risks and Uncertainties continued
Financial risk management objectives and 
policies (continued)
Liquidity risk
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that 
sufficient funds are available for ongoing 
operations and future developments, the Group 
uses a mixture of long-term and short-term 
debt finance. At 31 December 2013, the 
Group had sufficient headroom on its current 
borrowings and remains in full compliance with 
all loan covenants.
Furthermore, the Company will review at the 
appropriate time, the possibility of raising future 
equity finance or refinance existing banking 
facilities to expand activities.
Price risk
With regard to the current balance sheet 
position, the Group is not exposed to price risk, 
as the majority of its jewellery and all of its scrap 
gold is obtained through unredeemed pledges, 
which have a cost to the Group which is lower 
than the retail value. The Group is however 
exposed to adverse movements in the price 
of gold in its gold scrap activities and the value 
of the pledge collaterals. Should the price of 
gold drop significantly, the Group can mitigate 
that risk by changing its lending policy on 
pawnbroking pledges or by entering hedging 
instruments. Currently the Group has no gold 
hedge in place, although this is reviewed by the 
Board on a regular basis.
Exchange rate risk
While the Group’ s activities are wholly 
conducted in Great Britain, the Group is 
impacted by foreign currency exchange rates 
affecting the gold price exchange from USD 
to GBP and the revaluation of foreign currency 
cash holdings in store.
Strategic Report Approval
The Strategic Report incorporates the Financial Highlights, the Chairman’ s Statement, the Chief Executive’ s Report, the Finance Director’ s Report 
and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board
S Fenerty
Company Secretary
26 February 2014 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
21
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Directors, officers and Advisers
Peter D McNamara
Chairman, 63
Peter spent the majority of his career with 
Lloyds Bank plc, as chief manager for strategic 
planning, mergers and acquisitions, and then 
as the managing director of Personal Banking. 
He subsequently served as group managing 
director of the Alliance & Leicester plc and 
Chief Executive of Wesleyan Assurance 
Society, a mutual life insurance business. 
In 2002 he left to become Chairman and 
subsequently executive Chairman of Moneybox 
plc, the leading ATM deployer operating in the 
UK, Germany and the Netherlands, which he 
led to flotation on AIM.
In 2006 he set up a new ATM business, 
Notemachine Ltd and is the CEO.
John G Nichols
Chief Executive, 63
After an early career in the RAF , John entered 
the leisure industry with the Rank Organisation 
where he held several senior executive 
positions. 
John joined H&T as Managing Director in 1997 
and subsequently became Chief Executive. 
He has been instrumental in developing and 
implementing the business strategy and 
delivering consistent growth in revenues and 
profitability. He has also been instrumental 
in the initiative to obtain the ISO9001 and 
Investors in People Gold accreditations. 
Malcolm L Berryman
59
Malcolm is currently a Non-Executive Director 
at Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust and 
runs his own consultancy business primarily 
involved in life and general insurance. Between 
1990 and 2005, he was Chief Executive of two 
Insurers, Liverpool Victoria and Crown Financial 
Management. He qualified as an Actuary in 
1983.
Stephen A Fenerty
Finance Director, 40
Stephen trained with KPMG’s banking 
and finance team where he completed his 
accountancy training, since then he has 
pursued a variety of management roles in 
the alternative credit sector. Stephen joined 
H&T in March 2005 as Commercial Director 
before taking on the role as Finance Director 
in December 2013. Stephen has direct 
responsibility for finance, IT, unsecured lending, 
acquisitions, compliance and credit risk.
James F Thornton
56
James is currently a Director at Strand 
Partners, a position he has held since 2009. 
Previously James held senior positions with 
Lord Ashcroft KCMG associated companies 
- Anne Street Partners and Global Health 
Partner plc. He has more than fifteen years of 
experience in UK financial services including 
UK Finance Director at Old Mutual plc and 
as Head of Foreign Exchange at IFX plc. 
James is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
22
Registered and Head office and Advisers
Registered and Head Office
H&T Group plc
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: +44 (0) 870 9022 600
Broker and Nominated Adviser
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Legal Advisers to the Company
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP
Adelaide House
London Bridge
London EC4R 9HA
Independent Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Global House
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 1DL
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
25 Gresham St
London
EC2V 7HN
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
2nd Floor, Brunel House
17/27 Station Road
Reading, Berkshire
RG1 1LG
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Public Relations
Pelham
6th Floor
Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London
WC1V 7QD
Directors, officers and Advisers continued  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Corporate Governance
The directors recognise the importance of 
adopting good corporate governance practices 
in the best interests of all shareholders. 
Although the Company is not required to 
report on compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) since its shares 
are traded on the AIM market, the Company 
complies, so far as practical, with the Code in 
the following ways:
Directors
the Board
The Board comprises two executive directors 
and three non-executive directors. Their 
biographies appear on page 21. A review 
of these shows a range of experience and 
expertise sufficient to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct which 
is vital to the success of the Group. The 
three non-executive directors hold shares as 
disclosed on page 25. However, because the 
number of shares held is small, there is no 
entitlement to share options for non-executives, 
and there are no cross directorships between 
executive and non-executive directors, the 
non-executive directors are considered to be 
independent. 
Board meetings
The Board is responsible to the shareholders 
for the proper management of the Group. 
A statement of directors’ responsibilities in 
respect of the financial statement is set out in 
this Annual Report on page 30. 
The Board meets 10 times during the year. 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, 
all directors receive appropriate and timely 
information. Briefing papers are distributed to 
all directors in advance of the Board meetings. 
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved 
to the Board which include the determination 
of strategy, approval of new stores and 
acquisitions, approval of budget and major 
capital expenditure. 
At Board meetings, the agenda normally 
comprises a review of the management 
accounts, a CEO review of operations, a 
review of new store proposals and potential 
acquisitions and an update on the progress of 
the Group’s other strategic objectives. 
The Board meetings in August and February 
cover the approval of the interim and 
preliminary financial results respectively and the 
November meeting deals with the approval of 
the annual budget.
The following committees deal with the specific 
aspects of the Group’s affairs:
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 Malcolm 	 Berryman 	 (Chairman)
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton
The Committee meets at least twice in each 
year and at such other times as the Chairman 
of the Committee sees fit.
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed 
by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. The quorum for the 
Committee is two.
The duties of the Committee are to:
•	 determine 	 and 	 agr ee 	 with 	 the 	 Boar d	
the framework or broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman, executive 
Directors and any employees that the 
Board delegates to it;
•	 within 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 agr eed 	 policy ,	
determine individual remuneration packages 
including bonuses, incentive payments, 
share options, pension arrangements and 
any other benefits;
•	 determine 	 the 	 contractual 	 terms 	 on	
termination and individual termination 
payments, ensuring that the duty of the 
individual to mitigate loss is fully recognised;
•	 in 	 determining 	 individual 	 packages 	 and	
arrangements, give due regard to the 
comments and recommendations of the 
Code;
•	 be 	 told 	 of 	 and 	 be 	 given 	 the 	 chance 	 to	
advise on any major changes in employee 
benefit structures in the Company;
•	 r ecommend 	 and 	 monitor 	 the 	 level 	 and	
structure of remuneration for senior 
managers below Board level as determined;
•	 agr ee 	 the 	 policy 	 for 	 authorising 	 claims 	 for	
expenses from the Chief Executive and 
from the Chairman of the Board; and
•	 r ecommend 	 an 	 annual 	 r eport 	 for 	 the	
Board to put to Shareholders on executive 
remuneration compliant with relevant legal 
and regulatory provisions.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
•	 seek 	 any 	 information 	 it 	 r equir es 	 fr om 	 any	
employee of the Group in order to perform 
its duties;
•	 be 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 establishing 	 the 	 selection	
criteria and then for selecting, appointing 
and setting the terms of reference for any 
remuneration consultants providing advice 
to the Committee, at the Group’s expense; 
and
•	 obtain, 	 at 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 expense, 	 outside	
legal or other professional advice where 
necessary in the course of its activities.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton 	 (Chairman)
•	 Malcolm 	 Berryman	
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara
The Audit Committee reviews each year 
the arrangements for safeguarding auditor 
objectivity and independence. The Audit 
Committee reviews the scope, results and 
cost-effectiveness of internal and external 
audit, and has delegated power from the 
Board to exercise the power from shareholders 
to agree fees for external auditors. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for satisfying itself on 
the independence and objectivity of external 
auditors and the independence of internal 
auditors. As directed by the Audit Committee, 
the principal function of the Group’s internal 
audit team is to verify the physical presence 
and control procedures surrounding the cash, 
pledge and stock balances within stores and 
the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Jewellery 	 Centr e. 	 The 	 Committee	
reviews the operation of internal controls and 
reports to the Board on the annual review of 
the internal control and risk management.
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
24
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The members of the Committee are:
•	 Peter 	 D 	 McNamara 	 (Chairman)
•	 Malcolm 	 Berryman
•	 James 	 F 	 Thornton
The function of the Nomination Committee is 
to provide a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board. In carrying out its 
duties, the Nomination Committee is primarily 
responsible for:
•	 identifying 	 and 	 nominating 	 candidates 	 to 	 fill 	
Board vacancies;
•	 evaluating 	 the 	 structur e 	 and 	 composition	
of the Board with regard to the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience and 
making recommendations accordingly;
•	 r eviewing 	 the 	 time 	 r equir ements 	 of 	 Non-
Executive Directors;
•	 giving 	 full 	 consideration 	 to 	 succession	
planning; and
•	 r eviewing 	 the 	 leadership 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible 
for the Group’s system of internal control and 
for the continuing process of reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal controls. Internal 
control systems are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The 
directors confirm that they have reviewed 
the effectiveness of the systems of internal 
control that have been in operation during the 
year. The Group has an internal audit function 
principally for periodic store visits. 
Internal control: financial
The internal control process has been reviewed 
and its main features are:
•	 Financial 	 Reporting: 	 ther e 	 is 	 a	
comprehensive budgeting system with an 
annual budget approved by the Board. 
Monthly trading results are reported against 
the corresponding figures for the budget 
and previous year. The Board also reviews 
re-forecasts on a regular basis.
•	 Capital 	 Expenditur e: 	 ther e 	 is 	 a	
comprehensive budgeting system for 
capital expenditure with an annual budget 
approved by the Board. The Finance 
Director authorises individual items of 
capital expenditure and material items are 
also authorised by the Board or CEO.
•	 Cash 	 flow: 	 an 	 annual 	 cash 	 flow 	 for ecast 	
is drawn up and approved by the Board 
and 	 actual 	 cash 	 flow 	 is 	 r eviewed 	 monthly 	
against this forecast.
•	 Organisational 	 Structur e: 	 a 	 clear	
organisational structure with defined 
responsibilities and clear authority levels has 
been set.
•	 Stor e 	 Audits: 	 a 	 Stor es 	 Audit 	 function 	 exists	
to ensure that Group procedures regarding 
cash, pledges and stock handling are being 
adhered to.
Internal control: risk management 
During the year, the Group had in place 
formalised procedures to identify, evaluate 
and manage significant risks and to enable 
management to assess and regularly report 
to the board on issues relating to business, 
operational, financial and non-compliance 
risks.
r elations with shareholders
The board recognises the importance 
of communications with shareholders. 
The Chief Executive’s statement and the 
operational review on pages 12 to 15 include 
a detailed review of the business and future 
developments. There is a regular dialogue 
with institutional shareholders including 
presentations after the Group’s preliminary 
announcement of the year end results and at 
the half year results.
Corporate Governance continued H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2013.
Principal activities and review of the 
business
The main activities of the Group continue to 
be pawnbroking, gold purchasing, retail of 
jewellery, cheque cashing, unsecured lending 
and other related services operated through 
Harvey & Thompson Limited. The principal 
activity of the Company is that of a non-trading 
holding company for Harvey & Thompson 
Limited and H&T Finance Limited.
A review of the business and its future 
development (including the information that 
fulfils the relevant requirements of section 
417 of the Companies Act 2006) is given in 
the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s 
Review and Finance Director’s Review on 
pages 2 to 17.
Dividends
The directors propose a final dividend of 2.7p 
(2012: 8.05p) per share subject to approval at 
the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. 
This proposed dividend, in accordance with 
IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’ 
for the Group, and, FRS 21 ‘Events after the 
balance sheet date’ for the Company, has 
not been provided for in the attached financial 
statements. During the year, the Company  
paid the final dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2012 of 8.05p per share and  
an interim dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2013 of 2.1p per share  
(2012: 3.80p per share). 
 
capital structure 
Details of the authorised share capital are 
shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements. The company has one class of 
ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed 
income. Each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. 
As disclosed in note 26, during the period 
270,008 new ordinary shares (2012: 462,372) 
of £0.05 each were issued, called up and fully 
paid as part of the Group’s share option and 
long term incentive plans.
As a result of the above the nominal issued 
share capital has increased from £1,829,313 
as at 31 December 2012 to £1,842,813 as at 
31 December 2013.
As at 1 February 2014, the company has been 
notified of the following voting rights by major 
shareholders of the Company:
 Percentage of
 voting rights and
Name of holder issued share capital
 
Artemis Investment Management 18.5%
Henderson Global Investors 9.6%
Fidelity Management & Research 5.8%
NBIM 4.3%
Baillie Gifford 4.2%
Octopus Investments 4.1%
Directors 3.8%
Pershing, 	 New 	 Jersey 	 (ND)	 3.2%
Downing 3.0%
Hof Hoomeman Bankiers 2.6%
Details of employee share schemes are set out 
in note 27. Under these share schemes, there 
are currently potentially an additional 1,648,484 
shares that will be issued to current option 
holders at the call of the option holder. Under 
its Articles of Association, the Company has 
authority to allot under these share schemes, 
for cash, up to a maximum of 3,685,626 
ordinary shares without being required to 
offer such securities to all shareholders in 
accordance with statutory pre-emption rights.
 
On any date, no option may be granted under 
any share option scheme or long term incentive 
plan, if (as a result) the aggregate nominal value 
of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant 
to options granted during the previous 10 years 
under any share option scheme would exceed 
10% of the nominal value of the share capital of 
the Company in issue on that date.
There are no other potentially dilutive equity 
instruments in the Company in issue at 31 
December 2013 or 31 December 2012. 
 No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all 
issued shares are fully paid. 
With regard to the appointment and 
replacement of directors, the Company is 
governed by its Articles of Association, the 
Companies Acts and related legislation and 
requires certain directors annually to retire 
by rotation. The Articles themselves may 
be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. 
There are a number of agreements that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control of the Company, such as commercial 
contracts, bank loan agreements, property 
lease arrangements and employees’ share 
plans. None of these are considered to be 
significant in terms of their likely impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. Furthermore 
the directors are not aware of any agreements 
between the Company, or any other group 
company, and its directors or employees that 
provide for compensation for loss of office  
or employment that occurs because of a 
takeover bid.
Directors and their interests
The directors who served throughout the year 
and to the date of this report, except where 
otherwise stated, were as follows:
Executive
J 	 G 	 Nichols
A M Maby (resigned 29 November 2013)  
S A Fenerty
Non-Executive
P 	 D 	 McNamara 	 	
M Berryman   
J 	 F 	 Thornton	
The directors hold the following notifiable beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
  At 1 January Acquired Disposed of At 31 December
Director Type of Share 2013 in the year in the year 2013
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 1,066,050	 —	 —	 1,066,050
S 	 A 	 Fenerty	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 300,000	 —	 —	 300,000
P 	 D 	 McNamara	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 17,351	 —	 —	 17,351
M 	 Berryman	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 2,000	 —	 —	 2,000
J 	 F 	 Thornton	 Or dinary 	 5p 	 shar es	 —	 5,000	 —	 5,000
     
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
26
Directors’ Report continued
As a result of the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes operated by the Group, the directors have a beneficial interest in the following 
options granted over ordinary shares in H&T Group plc:
       Market
  Granted Exercised Forfeited   price on
 At start during during during At end Exercise date Date from 
 of year the year year the year of year price exercised which Expiry
 No. No. No. No. No. pence pence exercisable date
J G Nichols         
- 	 2006 	 Scheme	 87,397	 —	 —	 —	 87,397	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
- 	 2007 	 Scheme	 78,390	 —	 —	 —	 78,390	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
- 	 2008 	 Scheme	 92,293	 —	 —	 —	 92,293	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
- 	 2009 	 Scheme	 87,628	 —	 —	 —	 87,628	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
- 	 2010 	 Scheme	 93,686	 —	 —	 —	 93,686	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
	 439,394	 —	 —	 —	 439,394	 	 	 	
A M Maby         
- 	 2010 	 Scheme	 65,173	 —	 —	 (65,173)	 —	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
- 	 2011 	 Scheme	 14,451	 —	 —	 (14,451)	 —	 298.5p	 —	 19/4/2014	 18/4/2021
	 79,624	 —	 —	 (79,624)	 —	 	 	 	
S A Fenerty         
- 	 2006 	 Scheme	 51,233	 —	 —	 —	 51,233	 182.5p	 —	 8/9/2009	 7/9/2016
- 	 2007 	 Scheme	 45,517	 —	 —	 —	 45,517	 217.5p	 —	 17/5/2010	 16/5/2017
- 	 2008 	 Scheme	 59,544	 —	 —	 —	 59,544	 175.5p	 —	 15/5/2011	 14/5/2018
- 	 2009 	 Scheme	 61,855	 —	 —	 —	 61,855	 194.0p	 —	 1/5/2012	 30/4/2019
- 	 2010 	 Scheme	 54,989	 —	 —	 —	 54,989	 245.5p	 —	 20/4/2013	 19/4/2020
- 	 2011 	 Scheme	 11,476	 —	 —	 —	 11,476	 298.5p	 —	 19/4/2014	 18/4/2021
	 284,614	 —	 —	 —	 284,614	 	 	 	
No share options were granted to any director in 2012 and 2013.
The 	 following 	 dir ectors 	 have 	 also 	 a 	 beneficial 	 inter est 	 in 	 conditional 	 shar es 	 granted 	 as 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (further 	 details 	 ar e 	 pr ovided 	
within note 27):
  Granted Exercised Forfeited   Date when
 At start during during during At end Exercise conditional 
 of year the year year the year of year price grant is
 No. No. No. No. No. pence  achievable
J G Nichols       
- 	 2011 	 L TIP	 77,174	 —	 —	 —	 77,174	 —	 1/4/2014
- 	 2012 	 L TIP	 80,778	 —	 —	 —	 80,778	 —	 17/4/2015
- 	 2013 	 L TIP	 —	 82,276	 —	 —	 82,276	 —	 28/3/2016
	 157,952	 82,276	 —	 —	 240,228	 	
A M Maby       
- 	 2011 	 L TIP	 42,781	 —	 —	 (42,781)	 —	 —	 1/4/2014
- 	 2012 	 L TIP	 50,750	 —	 —	 (50,750)	 —	 —	 17/4/2015
	 93,531	 —	 —	 (93,531)	 —	 	
S A Fenerty       
- 	 2011 	 L TIP	 33,973	 —	 —	 —	 33,973	 —	 1/4/2014
- 	 2012 	 L TIP	 40,301	 —	 —	 —	 40,301	 —	 17/4/2015
- 	 2013 	 L TIP	 —	 41,048	 —	 —	 41,048	 —	 28/3/2016
	 74,274	 41,048	 —	 —	 115,322	 	 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
27
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
31 December 2013, the market price of H&T Group plc’s shares was 143.5p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2013 was 127p 
–320p.
None of the directors hold any interests in the shares of any other company within the H&T Group plc group.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, the following directors will by rotation be offering themselves for re-election:
•	 P 	 D 	 McNamara
•	 M 	 Berryman
Directors’ indemnities
Under the Company’s articles of association, any director is entitled to be indemnified by the Company (to the extent permitted by law) against any 
liability incurred by him in defending proceedings which relate to any acts or omissions in his capacity as officer of the Company. In addition, the 
Company maintains insurance for the benefit of the directors in respect of such matters which it considers to be appropriate. These arrangements 
were in force throughout the whole of the current and preceding financial years.
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
 2013  2012
 £  £
Emoluments 726,249 961,534
Gains on exercise of share options — 67,267
Amounts gained under long term incentive schemes — 719,633
Money purchase pension contributions 54,566 55,389
 780,815 1,803,823
  
Directors’ emoluments and compensation
 Fees/Basic	 Benefits	 Annual	 2013 2012
 salary in kind bonuses Total Total
Name of director £ £ £ £ £
Executive     
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 240,454	 11,973	 —	 252,427 348,903
A 	 M 	 Maby 	 (r esigned 	 29 	 November 	 2013)	 162,916	 9,290	 —	 172,206 250,005
S 	 A 	 Fenerty	 142,291	 9,850	 —	 152,141 200,608
Non-executive     
P 	 D 	 McNamara	 69,525	 —	 —	 69,525 69,525
A 	 J 	 Br own	 —	 —	 —	 — 48,067
M 	 Berryman	 41,200	 —	 —	 41,200 41,200
J 	 F 	 Thornton	 38,750	 —	 —	 38,750 3,226
Aggr egate 	 emoluments	 695,136	 31,113	 —	 726,249 961,534
Directors’ annual bonus scheme
Remuneration Committee consider the total remuneration package available to Executive directors in light of market practice for companies of a 
similar size and delivering a similar shareholder performance. As part of the total package, Executive directors are entitled to receive an annual bonus, 
subject to meeting certain performance conditions. These performance conditions, the maximum bonus payable and the proportion paid for on-
target performance are set by the Remuneration Committee in advance of each financial year.
The 2013 bonus structure was as follows:
•	 Executive 	 dir ectors 	 r eceive 	 a 	 per centage 	 of 	 salary 	 for 	 achieving 	 on-target 	 performance. 	 For 	 2013, 	 the 	 target 	 set 	 was 	 achievement 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup	
profit before tax budget.
•	 For 	 each 	 1% 	 out-performance 	 to 	 the 	 target, 	 an 	 additional 	 payment 	 of 	 2.0% 	 - 	 3.0% 	 of 	 salary 	 would 	 also 	 be 	 made. 	 No 	 dir ector 	 can 	 r eceive 	 a 	 bonus	
of more than 190% of salary.
The 2013 bonus scheme included a provision to pay a proportion of the bonus in shares to Executive Directors who do not have a shareholding at 
least equal to one year’s salary, until that shareholding has reached the equivalent of one year’s salary. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
28
Directors’ Report continued
Directors’ pension entitlements
3 directors were members of money purchase schemes during the year. Contributions paid by the company in respect of such directors were as 
follows:
 2013  2012
 £  £
J 	 G 	 Nichols	 24,045 23,812
A M Maby (resigned 29 November 2013) 16,292 17,600
S A Fenerty 14,229 13,977
 54,566 55,389
  
Personnel
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 9 to the consolidated accounts. All employees have contracts of 
employment with Harvey & Thompson Limited, the trading subsidiary in the H&T Group plc group.
Harvey & Thompson Limited maintains a policy of equal opportunities and is committed to ensuring that all individuals are treated fairly, with respect 
and are valued. 
All employees are incentivised through different bonus schemes. Store managers and management also qualify for the approved share option 
scheme (ASOS) while directors and senior management also qualify for the unapproved share option scheme (USOS). The executive directors also 
qualify 	 for 	 the 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (L TIP). 	 Further 	 details 	 on 	 shar e 	 option 	 plans 	 ar e 	 pr ovided 	 in 	 note 	 27.
employee consultation
Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that their views are taken into account when 
decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all employees are aware of the financial and economic performance of their stores, 
regional areas and of the Group as a whole. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, weekly information bulletins, employee surveys, a 
quarterly newsletter and every year through a store managers’ conference.
employment of the disabled
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled persons in jobs suited to their individual circumstances 
and, as appropriate, to consider them for recruitment opportunities, career development and training. Where possible, arrangements are made for the 
continuing employment of employees who have become disabled whilst in the Group’s employment.
supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of 
the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment. Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2013 were equivalent to 30 (2012: 29) days’ 
purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year. 
charitable and political contributions
During the year the Company and Group made donations to registered local and national charities of £4,000 (2012: £32,651). No political 
contributions were made during the year (2012: £nil).
 
Going concern
The Group delivered profit after tax of £4.9m for the year ended 31 December 2013 (2012: £12.9m). The Group has also increased its net assets to 
£88.1m (2012: £86.8m). The Group’s net debt balance decreased by £6.9m during 2013 highlighting the Group’s ability to manage its working capital 
use 	 and 	 generate 	 str ong 	 cash 	 flows.
The Board has approved a detailed budget for 2014, which indicates surplus cash generated from operations after accounting for the Group’s 
for ecast 	 levels 	 of 	 capital 	 expenditur e. 	 In 	 addition, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 access 	 to 	 its 	 curr ent 	 £50m 	 r evolving 	 facility , 	 which 	 is 	 not 	 due 	 to 	 expir e 	 until 	 January	
2017. As at 31 December 2013, the Group had £24m of available financing by which to finance both current operations and future growth. This 
strong balance sheet position provides a high level of confidence that the Group will be able to repay all liabilities as they fall due during 2014, as well 
as funding the planned expansion in the store estate. The Board is also confident of meeting all covenant tests during the year.
In considering the going concern basis of preparation longer term forecasts are also reviewed by the Board, with the ‘base case’ financial forecasts 
revealing no inability to meet financial covenants or repay liabilities. Sensitivity analysis under less favourable scenarios designed to test the point at 
which the Group will either have insufficient headroom or breach financial covenants have also been prepared and reviewed. The Board considers the 
selected scenarios as remote, and is comfortable that mitigating strategies are available to the Group to offset liquidity constraints. 
We believe that the current economic climate should have no significant negative impact to our business model. The Group offering is principally 
through secured lending against pledges. The Group policies on pawn lending remain rigorous and prudent, such that the Group has very limited 
exposure to loss in the event of customers not redeeming their pledges, due to the value of the pledge collateral held, principally being gold and 
precious stones. The Group has no reason to believe that the value will not be maintained in the near future. Further details are provided in note 25. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
29
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Based on the above considerations and after reviewing in detail FY 2014 and FY 2015 forecasts, the directors have formed the view that the Group 
has 	 adequate 	 r esour ces 	 to 	 continue 	 as 	 a 	 going 	 concern 	 for 	 the 	 for eseeable 	 futur e 	 and 	 has 	 pr epar ed 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 this 	 basis. 	 Principal 	
risks and uncertainties to the Group’s business are discussed in more detail in the Strategic Report.
independent auditor and statement of provision of information to the independent auditor
Deloitte 	 LLP 	 have 	 expr essed 	 their 	 willingness 	 to 	 continue 	 in 	 office 	 as 	 auditor 	 and 	 a 	 r esolution 	 to 	 r eappoint 	 them 	 will 	 be 	 pr oposed 	 at 	 the 	 forthcoming 	
Annual General Meeting.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
(1)  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
(2)  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
J G Nichols
Chief Executive
26 February 2014 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
30
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors are required 
to prepare the group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted 	 Accounting 	 Practice 	 (United	
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). Under company law the directors must 
not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the company and of the 
profit or loss of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select 	 suitable 	 accounting 	 policies 	 and 	 then	
apply them consistently;
•	 make 	 judgments 	 and 	 accounting 	 estimates	
that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 UK 	 Accounting	
Standards have been followed; and
•	 pr epar e 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the company 
will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that directors:
•	 pr operly 	 select 	 and 	 apply 	 accounting	
policies;
•	 pr esent 	 information, 	 including 	 accounting	
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
•	 pr ovide 	 additional 	 disclosur es 	 when	
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
•	 make 	 an 	 assessment 	 of 	 the 	 company’ s	
ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
r esponsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements, 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
•	 the 	 strategic 	 r eport 	 includes 	 a 	 fair 	 r eview 	 of	
the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
•	 the 	 annual 	 r eport 	 and 	 financial 	 statements, 	
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
By order of the Board 
    
J G Nichols s A Fenerty  
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director  
    
26 February 2014  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
31
Financial Statement S
Independent auditor’s report on the group financial 
statements to the members of H&T Group plc
We have audited the financial statements 
of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 Plc 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31	
December 2013 which comprise of the Group 
Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance 
Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, 
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
and the related notes 1 to 32. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 	 3 	 of 	 Part 	 16 	 of 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act	
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
r espective responsibilities of directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply 	 with 	 the 	 Auditing 	 Practices 	 Boar d’ s	
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment 
of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	
view of the state of the group’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2013 and of the group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
•	 the 	 gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union;
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
opinion on other matters prescribed by 
the companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 have 	 not	
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited  
by us; or
•	 certain 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 dir ectors’	
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and	
explanations we require for our audit.
Ian 	 J 	 Smith 	 (Senior 	 Statutory 	 Auditor)
for 	 and 	 on 	 behalf 	 of 	 Deloitte 	 LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Crawley, United Kingdom
 26 February 2014  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
32
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2013
  2013  2012
 Note £’000  £’000
Revenue 5,6 99,275 129,696
Cost of sales  (49,357) (67,413)
Gross profit 6 49,918 62,283
   
Other direct expenses  (32,912) (33,435)
Administrative expenses  (9,432) (10,763)
Operating profit  7,574 18,085
   
Investment revenues 5,10 1 2
Finance costs 11 (842) (1,532)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps  — 418
Profit before taxation 7 6,733 16,973
   
Tax charge on profit  12 (1,882) (4,077)
Profit for the financial year and total comprehensive income  4,851 12,896
   
  2013 2012
  Pence 	 Pence
Earnings per share   
From continuing operations   
Basic 13 13.44 35.92
Diluted 13 13.40 35.52
All results derive from continuing operations. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
33
Financial Statement S
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2013
    Employee
   Share Benefit
  Share premium Trust shares Retained
  capital account reserve earnings Total
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012  1,805 24,961 (25) 50,542 77,283
      
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 —	 —	 —	 12,896	 12,896
Total income for the financial year 	 	 —	 —	 —	 12,896	 12,896
Issue 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital	 	 25	 436	 —	 —	 461
Shar e 	 option 	 cr edit 	 taken 	 dir ectly 	 to 	 equity	 27	 —	 —	 —	 416	 416
Deferr ed 	 tax 	 on 	 shar e 	 options 	 taken 	 dir ectly 	 to 	 equity	 23	 —	 —	 —	 (350)	 (350)
Dividends 	 paid	 14	 —	 —	 —	 (3,941)	 (3,941)
Employee 	 benefit 	 trust 	 shar es	 26	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
At 1 January 2013  1,830 25,397 (25) 59,563 86,765
      
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 — — — 4,851 4,851
Total income for the financial year  — — — 4,851 4,851
Issue of share capital 26 13 12 — — 25
Share option credit taken directly to equity 27 — — — 238 238
Dividends paid 14 — — — (3,738) (3,738)
Employee benefit trust shares 26 — — (13) — (13)
At 31 December 2013  1,843 25,409 (38) 60,914 88,128 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
34
Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December 2013
  31 December 31 December
  2013  2012
 Note £’000  £’000
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 15 17,738 17,681
Other intangible assets 16 1,400 1,181
Pr operty , 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 17	 12,322 13,679
  31,460 32,541
Current assets   
Inventories 19 29,748 26,233
Trade and other receivables 20 54,122 64,023
Deferred tax assets 23 724 723
Cash and cash equivalents 20 8,251 6,371
  92,845 97,350
Total assets  124,305 129,891
Current liabilities   
Borrowings 22 (3,000) (34,000)
Trade and other payables 21 (5,338) (6,426)
Current tax liabilities 21 (1,076) (2,182)
  (9,414) (42,608)
   
   
Net current assets  83,431 54,742
   
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 22 (25,605)	—
Pr ovisions	 24	 (1,158) (518)
  (26,763) (518)
Total liabilities  (36,177) (43,126)
Net assets  88,128 86,765
Equity   
Share capital 26 1,843 1,830
Share premium account  25,409 25,397
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve 26 (38) (25)
Retained earnings  60,914 59,563
Total equity  88,128 86,765
   
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 01588117, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on  
26 February 2014.
They were signed on its behalf by:
J G Nichols
Chief Executive H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
35
Financial Statement S
Consolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 2013
  2013  2012
 Note £’000  £’000
Net cash generated from operating activities 29 15,405 11,440
Investing activities   
   
Interest received  1 2
Pr oceeds 	 on 	 disposal 	 of 	 pr operty , 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 	 — 600
Pur chases 	 of 	 pr operty , 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 (2,434) (4,547)
Pur chases 	 of 	 intangible 	 assets	 	 — (2)
Acquisition of trade and assets of businesses  (2,366) (2,337)
Net cash used in investing activities  (4,799) (6,284)
Financing activities   
   
Dividends paid 14 (3,738) (3,941)
Net decrease in borrowings  (5,000)	—
Pr oceeds 	 on 	 issue 	 of 	 shar es	 26	 25 461
Loan to the Employee Benefit Trust for acquisition of own shares  (13)	—
Net cash absorbed by financing activities  (8,726) (3,480)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  (1,880) 1,676
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  6,371 4,695
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  8,251 6,371 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
36
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013
1. General information
H&T Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts. The address of the registered office is given on page 
22. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive Officer’s 
Review, the Finance Director’s Review and the Directors’ Report.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group 
operates. 
2. changes in accounting policies 
Adoption of new and revised standards   
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted.
Amendments to IAS 12  Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets
Amendments 	 to 	 IAS 	 1	 	Pr esentation 	 of 	 Items 	 of 	 Other 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income
IFRS 10  Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 	 11	 	Joint 	 Arrangements
IFRS 12  Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27  Separate Financial Statements (2011)
IAS 	 27	 	Investments 	 in 	 Associates 	 and 	 Joint 	 V entur es 	 (2011)
IFRS 	 13	 	Fair 	 V alue 	 Measur ement
Amendments to IFRS 7 and IAS 32  Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
No amendments to these financial statements have been made as a result of adopting new and revised standards and interpretations.
Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial 
statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 9    Financial Instruments
IAS 27 (amendments)  Investment Entities
IAS 36 (amendments)  Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
IAS 39 (amendments)  Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
IFRIC Interpretation 21  Levies
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements 
of the Group in future periods.
3. significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the European Union 
and therefore the Group financial statements comply with The AIM Rules.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
made up to 31 December each year. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by 
the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors Report. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
37
Financial Statement S
3. significant accounting policies (continued)
Business combinations 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at  
the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a 
subsidiary, or trade and assets previously operated through either sole partnership in limited companies with no audited accounts at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income and is not subsequently reversed.
CGU’s to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be 
impaired. 
Goodwill 	 arising 	 on 	 acquisitions 	 befor e 	 the 	 date 	 of 	 transition 	 to 	 IFRS 	 has 	 been 	 r etained 	 at 	 the 	 pr evious 	 UK 	 GAAP 	 amounts 	 subject 	 to 	 being 	 tested 	 for	
impairment annually as described above.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are carried at cost less amortisation less impairment losses. Intangible assets represent intangibles which 
have been separately identified under IFRS 3 arising in business combinations, or meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38, “Intangible Assets”, being 
principally computer software assets.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is calculated using the expected life of the intangible assets acquired.
Amortisation of other intangible assets (computer software) is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the asset less its 
assessed realisable value over its estimated useful life (6 to 8 years).
Property, plant and equipment
Pr operty , 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 cost 	 less 	 accumulated 	 depr eciation 	 and 	 any 	 impairment 	 in 	 value.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset 
evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
 Short leasehold premises 
  Leasehold improvements Shorter of 7 years or life of lease
 
 Computer equipment 
  Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
 
 Fixtures and fittings 10 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For stock acquired for retail sale the cost represents the purchase price plus 
overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present location and condition and is measured on a first in first out basis. For stock arising from 
unredeemed pledges the cost represents the amount originally loaned, plus overheads directly related to bringing inventory to its present location 
and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stocks.
Financial assets
In accordance with IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ the Group has classified its financial assets as ‘loans and 
receivables’ and financial assets at ‘fair value through profit and loss’. 
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
38
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
3. significant accounting policies (continued)
Financial assets (continued)
Loans and receivables
The principal financial assets included in this measurement category are:
Trade receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers in the normal course of business. Trade receivables include certain amounts, namely 
pledge receivables and KwikLoan debtors which are interest bearing. The accrued interest arising on these interest bearing assets is included 
in prepayments and accrued income using the effective interest method. All other amounts which are not interest bearing are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts, which are charged to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at hand and deposits held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
Financial assets at FVTPL 
Only 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 r ecor ded 	 as 	 financial 	 assets 	 at 	 FVTPL. 	 Financial 	 assets 	 at 	 FVTPL 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 fair 	 value, 	 with 	 any 	
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. 
Impairment of financial assets
Financial 	 assets, 	 other 	 than 	 those 	 at 	 FVTPL, 	 ar e 	 assessed 	 for 	 indicators 	 of 	 impairment 	 at 	 each 	 balance 	 sheet 	 date. 	 Financial 	 assets 	 ar e 	 impair ed	
where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated 
futur e 	 cash 	 flows 	 of 	 the 	 investment 	 have 	 been 	 r educed. 	
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
•	 significant 	 financial 	 difficulty 	 of 	 the 	 counterparty; 	 or
•	 default 	 on 	 payments; 	 or
•	 it 	 becoming 	 pr obable 	 that 	 the 	 counterparty 	 will 	 enter 	 bankruptcy 	 or 	 financial 	 r e-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, 
where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off 
against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the 
allowance account are immediately recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income to 
the extent that the carrying amount of the financial asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have 
been had the impairment not been recognised. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities 
Financial 	 liabilities 	 ar e 	 classified 	 as 	 either 	 financial 	 liabilities 	 ‘at 	 FVTPL ’ 	 or 	 ‘other 	 financial 	 liabilities’.
Financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL	
Only 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments 	 ar e 	 r ecor ded 	 as 	 financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL.
Financial 	 liabilities 	 at 	 FVTPL 	 ar e 	 stated 	 at 	 fair 	 value, 	 with 	 any 	 r esultant 	 gain 	 or 	 loss 	 r ecognised 	 in 	 pr ofit 	 or 	 loss. 	 The 	 net 	 gain 	 or 	 loss 	 r ecognised 	 in 	 pr ofit 	
or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. All other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
39
Financial Statement S
3. significant accounting policies (continued)
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in 
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases
Leases taken by the Group are assessed individually as to whether they are finance leases or operating leases. Leases are classified as finance leases 
whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating 
leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating lease 
rental payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The benefit of lease incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
The Group currently has no finance leases.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is 
pr obable 	 that 	 an 	 outflow 	 of 	 economic 	 benefits 	 will 	 be 	 r equir ed 	 to 	 settle 	 the 	 obligation. 	 Pr ovisions 	 ar e 	 measur ed 	 at 	 the 	 dir ectors’ 	 best 	 estimate 	 of 	 the 	
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification costs 
and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes aware of 
any significant amounts that will be required.
Share capital and share premium account
There is one class of shares. When new shares are issued, they are recorded in share capital at their par value. The excess of the issue price over the 
par value is recorded in the share premium account.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are recorded in equity as a deduction, net of tax, to the share premium 
account.
Employee Benefit Trust Shares
Under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (‘L TIP’) 	 for 	 the 	 dir ectors, 	 the 	 par ent 	 Company 	 issued 	 certain 	 shar es 	 to 	 an 	 Employee 	 Benefit 	
T rust, 	 paid 	 for 	 thr ough 	 the 	 issuance 	 of 	 a 	 loan 	 to 	 the 	 T rust 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup. 	 The 	 awar d 	 of 	 shar es 	 under 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 conditional 	 upon 	 certain 	 vesting	
criteria, as outlined in note 27. The fair value of the awards made is measured under the policy disclosed below for Share Options.
The Group presents the conditional shares as an adjustment to own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares 
reserve, until the point that the shares are awarded, and cease to be conditional awards of shares.
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
40
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
3. significant accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services and 
inter est 	 income 	 pr ovided 	 in 	 the 	 normal 	 course 	 of 	 business, 	 net 	 of 	 discounts, 	 V A T 	 and 	 other 	 sales-r elated 	 taxes.
Revenue 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 to 	 the 	 extent 	 that 	 it 	 is 	 pr obable 	 that 	 the 	 economic 	 benefits 	 will 	 flow 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 the 	 r evenue 	 can 	 be 	 r eliably 	 measur ed. 	
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
•	 Retail 	 comprises 	 r evenue 	 fr om 	 r etail 	 jewellery 	 sales, 	 with 	 stock 	 sour ced 	 fr om 	 unr edeemed 	 pawn 	 loans, 	 newly 	 pur chased 	 stock 	 and 	 stock	
refurbished from the Group’s gold purchasing operation. All revenue is recognised at the point of sale;
•	 Pawnbr oking, 	 or 	 Pawn 	 Service 	 Charge 	 (PSC), 	 comprises 	 inter est 	 on 	 pledge 	 book 	 loans, 	 plus 	 auction 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss, 	 less 	 any 	 auction 	
commissions payable and less surplus payable to the customer. Interest receivable on loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to 
the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount;
•	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 and 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 comprises 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 gold 	 scrap 	 sales 	 and 	 is 	 r ecognised 	 on 	 full 	 r eceipt 	 of 	 sale 	 pr oceeds;
•	 Cheque 	 cashing 	 comprises 	 r evenues 	 fr om 	 thir d 	 party 	 Cheque 	 Cashing 	 and 	 Pay 	 Day 	 Advances. 	 The 	 commission 	 r eceivable 	 on 	 cheque 	 cashing 	 is	
recognised at the time of the transaction; and
•	 Other 	 financial 	 services 	 comprise 	 r evenues 	 fr om 	 other 	 unsecur ed 	 lending, 	 for eign 	 exchange 	 income, 	 pr epaid 	 car d 	 and 	 other 	 income. 	 Inter est 	
receivable on unsecured loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount. Any other revenues are recognised on an accruals basis.
The Group recognises interest income arising on secured and unsecured lending within trading revenue rather than investment revenue on the basis 
that this represents most accurately the business activities of the Group.
The Group recognises revenue and bad debt expenses (both impairments and movements on allowance accounts) on pawnbroking, cheque cashing 
and other financial services on a portfolio approach. The Group considers that the bad debts arising on the loans and receivables balances are a 
direct function of the revenue earned due to the nature of the activities, and accordingly records the net amount of interest or commissions due and 
bad debt expenses within revenue. 
Gross profit
Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the period.
Other direct expenses
Other direct expenses comprise all expenses associated with the operation of the various shops and collection centre of the Group, including 
premises expenses, such as rent, rates, utilities and insurance, all staff costs and staff related costs for the relevant employees.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before investment income, finance costs, other gains and movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation. It is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortisation 
to the operating profit as follows:
 2013  2012
 £  £
Operating profit 7,574 18,085
  
Depreciation and amortisation  3,604  3,218
Impairment 517	—
EBITDA 11,695 21,303
  
The Board considers EBITDA as a key measure of the Group’s financial performance.
Retirement benefit costs
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme which is contracted into the State Scheme. The amount charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year. 
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance 
sheet. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
41
Financial Statement S
3. significant accounting policies (continued)
Employee share incentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees (including directors). These payments are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant by use of a Black-Scholes model or a Stochastic model depending on the vesting conditions attached to each scheme. This fair 
value cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based 
on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. A corresponding credit is 
recorded in equity.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Dividends
Dividends are provided for in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
4. critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the directors have 
made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial 
statements.
Revenue recognition
Interest receivable on pawnbroking loans is recognised as interest accrues by reference to the percentage of the pawn loans that are estimated to be 
redeemed and the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. The estimated future cash receipts are based on the historical cash receipts 
experience 	 (the 	 “Pledge 	 Redemption”) 	 of 	 the 	 business 	 which 	 vary 	 fr om 	 month 	 to 	 month. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 monitors 	 the 	 Pledge 	 Redemption 	 on 	 a 	 monthly	
basis.
The Group does not recognise interest income on the pawn loans that are not expected to be redeemed. The Group recognises income on these 
loans when the related collateral that supports the loan is disposed of, through either the scrap or retail operations of the Group. The Group is of the 
opinion that the revenue earned on the unredeemed pledges is only realised from the Group perspective at the point at which the stock, or scrap item 
that the Group obtains from the pledge collateral is disposed of. In arriving at this treatment, the Group also considers that the transfer value from 
pawn loans to inventory of the unredeemed pledge collateral cannot exceed the cost to the Group of the inventory item which is represented by the 
underlying loan amount provided on the unredeemed pledge item.
inventories 
The majority of the inventory balance is obtained as a result of default by pawn loan customers. The inventory is stated at cost to the Group, being the 
amount initially lent on the pawn loan, plus overheads directly related to bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. As stated above, 
the Group does not allocate any interest that would have been earned on the pawn loans to the cost of inventory. Accordingly, the profit that arises 
on the subsequent disposal of the inventory, through either retail or scrap, includes an element which relates to the appropriation by the Group of 
collaterals supporting pawn loans that have a higher market value, than the pawn loan amount. 
Dilapidations provisions
All the Group’s premises are leased under operating leases. The majority of the leases include end of lease rectification clauses which impose certain 
requirements on the Group to complete repairs and maintenance, or re-decoration activities if required. The Group provides for both rectification costs 
and repairs and maintenance obligations. Rectification costs are provided for on signing the lease and repairs are provided as it becomes aware of 
any significant amounts that will be required. The Group does not provide for amounts where the potential exposure cannot be reliably measured and 
accordingly does not anticipate potential repairs and maintenance on the portfolio of stores. Additionally, the Group maintains the stores to a high 
standard and completes any necessary repairs and maintenance on a timely basis, addressing any events that require expenditure throughout the 
lease period as and when required. Such costs are expensed as incurred.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
42
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
4. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Pawnbroking loans interest accrual estimation
The Group recognises interest on pawnbroking loans as disclosed in the Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies section 
above. The pawn loans interest accrual (‘pledge accrual’) is material to the financial statements and is dependant on the estimate that the Group 
makes of the expected level of redeemed pawn loans. The Group estimates the expected redemptions based on the historical redemption rates 
achieved. There is a risk that the actual redemption rate may vary significantly from the historical rate used to estimate the pledge accrual at the 
balance sheet date. The Directors assess the pledge accrual estimate made at the prior balance sheet date annually to determine if the actual 
redemption differs significantly to the previous estimate. No significant differences were noted for 2012 or 2013. The sensitivity of the pledge accrual 
to reasonable changes in the redemption rate is shown in note 25. 
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The 	 value 	 in 	 use 	 calculation 	 r equir es 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 to 	 estimate 	 the 	 futur e 	 cash 	 flows 	 expected 	 to 	 arise 	 fr om 	 the 	 cash-generating 	 unit 	 and 	 a 	 suitable 	
discount rate in order to calculate present value. The review is conducted annually, in the final quarter of the year. The impairment review is conducted 
at the level of each cash generating unit, which for acquisitions represents the specific store or stores acquired.
There was an impairment loss of £517,000, of which £324,000 related to goodwill, recorded in the current year (none in preceding years). The 
Impairment loss relates to four acquisitions, two acquisitions were made in 2012 and two in 2013. The principal assumptions applied by management 
in arriving at the value in use of each cash generating unit are as follows:
1.	 The 	 Gr oup 	 pr epar es 	 cash 	 flow 	 for ecasts 	 over 	 a 	 five 	 year 	 period 	 for 	 each 	 cash 	 generating 	 unit, 	 as 	 disclosed 	 in 	 note 	 15. 	 The 	 year 	 one 	 cash 	
flows 	 ar e 	 derived 	 fr om 	 the 	 most 	 r ecent 	 financial 	 budget 	 with 	 average 	 like-for -like 	 assumptions 	 of: 	 3% 	 decline 	 in 	 r etail; 	 pawnbr oking 	 loans 	 ar e 	
constant; and a 30% decline in gold purchasing volumes in the first year. A constant gold price of £760 per troy ounce is assumed. Cash 
flows 	 in 	 subsequent 	 years 	 r eflect 	 management’ s 	 estimate 	 of 	 decline 	 in 	 the 	 r evenue 	 in 	 the 	 r elevant 	 cash 	 generating 	 unit, 	 based 	 on 	 the 	 specific 	
characteristics of the store and the stage of development of the core product offerings. Assumptions for years 2 – 5 include no annual growth in 
the pawn service charge, a 3% annual reduction in retail profits and 2% increase in cost. A terminal value is then calculated for periods thereafter.
2.	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 discounted 	 the 	 cash 	 flows 	 at 	 a 	 pr e-tax, 	 risk 	 adjusted 	 rate 	 of 	 13.1%.
3. The recoverable amount of four cash generating units was estimated to be less that its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash 
generating 	 units 	 was 	 r educed 	 to 	 r ecoverable 	 amount. 	 The 	 impairment 	 loss 	 of 	 £517,000 	 was 	 r ecognised 	 immediately 	 in 	 Pr ofit 	 and 	 Loss.
While the impairment review has been conducted based on the best available estimates at the impairment review date, the Group notes that actual 
events may vary from management expectation.
Fair value of derivatives
The 	 dir ectors 	 use 	 their 	 judgement 	 in 	 selecting 	 an 	 appr opriate 	 valuation 	 technique 	 for 	 financial 	 instruments 	 not 	 quoted 	 in 	 an 	 active 	 market. 	 V aluation 	
techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied. For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market 
rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument. This requires estimation of the future interest rates, and also the appropriate discount rate. 
Trade receivables provisioning
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less expected impairment losses. 
The impairment losses on the pledge book only relate to pledges seized by the police, shrinkage and our estimate of losses on pledges where the 
loan value exceeds the current market value. The pledge book items seized by the police are impaired on an item by item basis since the Group 
tracks the status of each pledge individually. The shrinkage provision is based on an estimate of the pledge book missing at the reporting date using 
historical shrinkage experience. The provision for pledges where loan value exceeds the current market value is calculated on an item by item basis 
with an estimate used for the proportion of those items which will ultimately be disposed of through pawnbroking scrap.
No other impairment losses are provided on the pledge book since the value of the collaterals is greater than the pledge book nominal value.
The 	 impairment 	 of 	 Pay 	 Day 	 Advance 	 loans 	 is 	 subject 	 to 	 a 	 portfolio 	 appr oach, 	 based 	 on 	 an 	 estimate 	 of 	 historical 	 bad 	 debt 	 experience 	 and 	 expected	
recoveries.
The impairment of KwikLoan loans is subject to individual assessment based on the number of payments missed. If one payment has been missed, a 
third of the remaining balance is impaired, if two payments have been missed, two-third of the remaining balance is impaired and if three payments or 
more have been missed, the whole remaining balance is impaired.
With respect to all provisions that are based on estimates, there is a risk that actual losses incurred will vary significantly from management 
expectation at the balance sheet date, if historical loss rates are not a good indicator of the actual credit risk profile of the year end receivables.
For further details on the provisions and impairment losses, refer to note 25, which show the amounts recorded in the period and the sensitivity at the 
balance sheet date to changes in the key assumptions with respect to impairment losses.
Inventories provisioning
Where necessary provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and damaged stock or stock shrinkage. The provision for obsolete, slow moving and 
damaged stock represents the difference between the cost of the stock and its market value. The stock shrinkage provision is based on an estimate 
of the inventory missing at the reporting date using historical shrinkage experience. For further details on the provisions for inventory, refer to note 7. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
43
Financial Statement S
5. r evenue 
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Sales of goods  
Gold purchasing, retail, pawnbroking scrap,  65,893 96,718
  
Interest/commission earned  
Pawnbr oking, 	 cheque 	 cashing 	 and 	 other 	 financial 	 services	 33,382 32,978
Group revenue 99,275 129,696
  
Investment revenues 1 2
Total Group revenue 99,276 129,698
Further analysis of revenue by segment is shown in note 6.
Included in the above revenues are the following items of income and gains:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Income  
Interest earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 28,812 28,930
Fees earned on financial assets not designated at fair value 3,767 5,968
6. Business and geographical segments
Business segments 
For 	 r eporting 	 purposes, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 curr ently 	 organised 	 into 	 six 	 segments 	 – 	 Pawnbr oking, 	 Gold 	 pur chasing, 	 Retail, 	 Scrap, 	 Cheque 	 cashing 	 and	
Other financial services. The principal activities by segment are as follows:
Pawnbroking: 
Pawnbr oking 	 is 	 a 	 loan 	 secur ed 	 against 	 a 	 collateral 	 (the 	 pledge). 	 In 	 the 	 case 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 over 	 99% 	 of 	 the 	 collateral 	 against 	 which 	 amounts 	 ar e 	 lent	
comprises precious metals (predominantly gold), diamonds and watches. The pawnbroking contract is a six month credit agreement bearing a 
monthly interest rate of between 2% and 9.99%. The contract is governed by the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 2008 (previously the Consumer 
Credit Act 2002). If the customer does not redeem the goods by repaying the secured loan before the end of the contract, the Group is required to 
dispose of the goods either through public auctions if the value of the pledge is over £75 (disposal proceeds being reported in this segment) or, if the 
value 	 of 	 the 	 pledge 	 is 	 £75 	 or 	 under , 	 thr ough 	 public 	 auctions 	 or 	 the 	 Retail 	 or 	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 activities 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
Gold Purchasing: 
Jewellery 	 is 	 bought 	 dir ect 	 fr om 	 customers 	 thr ough 	 all 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 stor es. 	 The 	 transaction 	 is 	 simple 	 with 	 the 	 stor e 	 or 	 unit 	 agr eeing 	 a 	 price 	 with 	 the	
customer 	 and 	 pur chasing 	 the 	 goods 	 for 	 cash 	 on 	 the 	 spot. 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 r evenues 	 comprise 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 scrap 	 sales 	 on 	 goods 	 sour ced 	 fr om	
the Group’s purchasing operations.
Retail: 
The Group’s retail proposition is primarily gold and jewellery and the majority of the retail sales are forfeited items from the pawnbroking pledge book 
or refurbished items from the Group’s gold purchasing operations. The retail offering is complemented with a small amount of new or second hand 
jewellery purchased from third parties by the Group.
Pawnbroking Scrap: 
Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 comprises 	 all 	 other 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 gold 	 scrap 	 sales 	 other 	 than 	 those 	 r eported 	 within 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing. 	 The 	 items 	 ar e 	 either	
damaged beyond repair, are slow moving or surplus to the Group’s requirements, and are smelted and sold at the current gold spot price less a small 
commission.
Cheque cashing: 
This segment comprises two products:
•	 Thir d 	 Party 	 Cheque 	 Encashment 	 which 	 is 	 the 	 pr ovision 	 of 	 cash 	 in 	 exchange 	 for 	 a 	 cheque 	 payable 	 to 	 our 	 customer 	 for 	 a 	 commission 	 fee 	 based 	 on	
the face value of the cheque.
•	 Pay 	 Day 	 Advance 	 is 	 a 	 short 	 term 	 cash 	 loan 	 r epayable 	 within 	 30 	 days, 	 of fer ed 	 both 	 in 	 stor es 	 and 	 on-line. 	 Customers 	 can 	 secur e 	 a 	 loan 	 of 	 up 	 to	
£750 and agree a date for repayment of loan and associated interest. This product was substantially withdrawn during 2013 and will cease during 
2014.
Both 	 pr oducts 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 bad 	 debt 	 risk 	 which 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 commissions 	 and 	 fees 	 applied. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
44
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
6. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Business segments (continued) 
Other financial services: 
This segment comprises:
•	 Unsecur ed 	 personal 	 loans 	 (“KwikLoan”) 	 of 	 up 	 to 	 £1000 	 which 	 ar e 	 r epayable 	 over 	 a 	 period 	 up 	 to 	 2 	 years. 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 earns 	 appr oximately 	 £300	
gross interest on a £500 loan over 12 months.
•	 The 	 Pr epaid 	 debit 	 car d 	 pr oduct 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 earns 	 a 	 commission 	 when 	 selling 	 the 	 car d 	 or 	 when 	 the 	 customer 	 is 	 topping 	 up 	 their 	 car d.
•	 The 	 for eign 	 exchange 	 curr ency 	 (Eur o 	 and 	 US 	 Dollar) 	 service 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 earns 	 a 	 commission 	 when 	 selling 	 or 	 buying 	 for eign 	 curr encies.
•	 W estern 	 Union 	 commission 	 earned 	 on 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 money 	 transfer 	 service.
Only 	 the 	 KwikLoan 	 pr oduct 	 is 	 subject 	 to 	 bad 	 debt 	 risk 	 which 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 inter est 	 rate 	 of fer ed.
Further details on each activity are included in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 12 to 15. 
Segment information about these businesses is presented below:
    Pawn-  Other Consolidated
 Pawn- Gold  broking Cheque financial year 
 broking purchasing Retail scrap cashing services ended
 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013
2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Revenue       
External sales 28,797 24,487 24,928 16,478 3,307 1,278 99,275
Total revenue 28,797 24,487 24,928 16,478 3,307 1,278 99,275
Segment result – gross profit 28,797 4,784 9,922 1,830 3,307 1,278 49,918
	 	 	 	 Pawn-	 	 Other	 Consolidated
	 Pawn-	 Gold	 	 br oking	 Cheque	 financial	 year	
 broking purchasing Retail scrap cashing services ended
 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012
2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Revenue       
External sales 28,415 51,774 20,149 24,795 3,746 817 129,696
Total revenue 28,415 51,774 20,149 24,795 3,746 817 129,696
Segment result – gross profit 28,415 12,045 9,881 7,379 3,746 817 62,283
As disclosed in note 3, Gross profit is stated after charging bad debt expenses and the direct costs of stock items sold or scrapped in the period. 
Other operating expenses of the stores are included in other direct expenses. The Group is unable to meaningfully allocate the other direct expenses 
of operating the stores between segments as the activities are conducted from the same stores, utilising the same assets and staff. The Group is 
also unable to meaningfully allocate Group administrative expenses, or financing costs or income between the segments. Accordingly, the Group is 
unable to meaningfully disclose an allocation of items included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income below Gross profit, which 
represents the reported segment results. 
The Group does not apply any inter-segment charges when items are transferred between the pawnbroking activity and the retail or scrap activities. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
45
Financial Statement S
6. Business and geographical segments (continued)
    Pawn-  Other Unallocated Consolidated
 Pawn- Gold  broking Cheque financial assets/ year 
 broking purchasing Retail scrap cashing services (liabilities) ended
 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013
2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Other information        
Capital additions (*)       3,229 3,229
Depreciation and 
 amortisation (*)       3,797 3,797
        
Balance sheet        
Assets        
Segment assets 49,824 1,900 26,582 1,266 33 1,953  81,558
Unallocated  
 corporate assets       39,749 39,749
Consolidated 
 total assets        124,305
Liabilities        
Segment 	 liabilities	 —	 —	 (478)	 —	 (29)	 (23)	 	 (530)
Unallocated  
 corporate liabilities       (35,647) (35,647)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (36,177)
	 	 	 	 Pawn-	 	 Other	 Unallocated	 Consolidated
	 Pawn-	 Gold	 	 br oking	 Cheque	 financial	 assets/	 year	
 broking purchasing Retail scrap cashing services (liabilities) ended
 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012
2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Other information        
Capital 	 additions 	 (*)	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 5,654	 5,654
Depreciation and 
	 amortisation 	 (*)	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 3,218	 3,218
        
Balance sheet        
Assets        
Segment assets 58,272 1,472 23,779 981 1,168 1,229  86,901
Unallocated 
 corporate assets       42,990 42,990
Consolidated total 
 assets        129,891
Liabilities        
Segment 	 liabilities	 —	 —	 (459)	 —	 (50)	 (29)	 	 (538)
Unallocated  
 corporate liabilities       (42,588) (42,588)
Consolidated 
 total liabilities        (43,126)
(*)  The Group cannot meaningfully allocate this information by segment due to the fact that all the  segments operate from the same stores and the 
assets in use are common to all segments. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
46
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
6. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Geographical segments
The Group’s operations are located entirely in the United Kingdom and all sales are within the United Kingdom. Accordingly, no further geographical 
segments analysis is presented.
Major customers 
Included 	 in 	 r evenues 	 arising 	 fr om 	 Gold 	 Pur chasing 	 and 	 Pawnbr oking 	 Scrap 	 segments 	 ar e 	 r evenues 	 fr om 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 largest 	 customer 	 of	
£29,531,000 (2012 - £52,068,000) and from its second largest customer of £5,720,000 (2012 - £11,046,000). These customers are bullion houses 
involved in the processing of the Group’s scrap gold.
7. Profit before taxation
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Profit before taxation has been arrived at after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment reported within:  
- Other direct expenses 3,101 2,866
- Administrative expenses 84 86
Amortisation of intangible assets (reported within Other direct expenses) 419 266
Impairment 517	—
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 187 89
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 48,360 66,839
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 997 575
Staff costs (see note 9) 20,442 22,448
Impairment loss recognised on pawnbroking financial assets (*) 514 291
Pr ovision 	 r ecognised 	 on 	 pawnbr oking 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 545 99
Impairment loss recognised on cheque cashing financial assets (*) 488 2,329
Pr ovision 	 (r eleased)/r ecognised 	 on 	 cheque 	 cashing 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 (665) 50
Impairment loss recognised on other financial services financial assets (*) 836 460
Pr ovision 	 r ecognised/(r eleased) 	 on 	 other 	 financial 	 services 	 financial 	 assets 	 (*)	 256 (93)
(*) As discussed in note 3, due to the portfolio approach adopted for recognising revenue, these amounts are recorded against revenue from the 
related segment to present net revenues as shown in notes 5 and 6.
Although the Group has written off, or provided for some of the financial assets in the current and previous periods, the Group continues to seek 
recovery of these assets. For further analysis on the movements in allowances, and amounts written off, see note 25.
8. Auditor’s remuneration
The 	 analysis 	 of 	 auditor’ s 	 r emuneration, 	 exclusive 	 of 	 V A T , 	 is 	 as 	 follows:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 40 38
  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services to the Group  
- The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 42 44
Total audit fees 82 82
- Tax services 10 10
- Other services —	—
Total non-audit fees 10 10
  
The Company and Group audit fees are borne by a subsidiary undertaking, Harvey & Thompson Limited. 
Fees 	 payable 	 to 	 Deloitte 	 LLP 	 and 	 their 	 associates 	 for 	 non-audit 	 services 	 to 	 the 	 Company 	 ar e 	 not 	 r equir ed 	 to 	 be 	 disclosed 	 because 	 the 	 consolidated	
financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
There were no fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
47
Financial Statement S
9. information regarding directors and employees
Non-executive directors’ emoluments 
3 (2012 - 3) non-executive directors receive payments for services rendered to the H&T Group plc group. Their emoluments are included in the 
analysis below. 
 2013  2012
Directors’ emoluments £’000  £’000
Aggregate emoluments 726 961
Company pension contributions to money purchase schemes 55 55
 781 1,016
All executive directors during the year (2012 - all) participated in Harvey & Thompson Limited’s money purchase pension scheme. In addition, 
£209,000 (2012 - £223,000) was charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the fair value of the share options 
and conditional shares granted to the directors under the different schemes. None (2012: One) of the directors exercised options over shares in the 
Company in the year.
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Highest paid director   
Aggregate emoluments 252 349
Company pension contributions to money purchase scheme 24 24
In addition, £104,000 (2012 - £97,000) was charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the fair value of the share 
options and conditional shares granted under the different schemes.
 2013  2012
 No.  No.
Average number of persons employed (including directors)   
Branches 914 1,003
Administration 107 104
 1,021 1,107
   
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Staff costs during the year (including directors)   
Wages and salaries 18,317 19,837
Share option compensation expense (note 27) 238 431
Social security costs 1,634 1,932
Other pension costs  253 248
 20,442 22,448
All directors and employees are remunerated through a subsidiary group company, Harvey & Thompson Limited in both the current and preceding 
financial year. 
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
48
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
10. investment revenues
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Interest revenue:   
Bank deposits 1 2
Investment revenues earned on financial assets (analysed by category of asset) is as follows:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Loans and receivables (including cash and bank balances) 1 2
Interest revenue recognised on pawnbroking and other financial services is reported within turnover for the reasons discussed in note 3.
11. Finance costs
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Interest on bank loans 700 1,530
Other interest 2 2
Amortisation of debt issue costs 140	—
Total interest expense 842 1,532
12. tax charge on profit
a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax charge at 23.25% (2012 – 24.5%) based on the profit for the year 2,055 4,030
Adjustments in respect of prior years (172) (17)
Total current tax 1,883 4,013
Deferred tax  
Timing differences, origination and reversal (143) (31)
Effects of change in tax rate 69 65
Adjustments in respect of prior years 73 30
Total deferred tax (note 23) (1) 64
Tax charge on profit  1,882 4,077 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
49
Financial Statement S
12. tax charge on profit (continued)
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is higher than that resulting from applying a blended standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25%  
(2012 – 24.5%). The differences are explained below:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit 	 befor e 	 taxation	 6,733 16,973
Tax charge on profit at standard rate 1,565 4,159
  
Effects of:  
 Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income 125 (192)
 Non-qualifying depreciation 89 32
 Effect of change in tax rate 69 65
 Movement in short term timing differences 133	—
 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods  (99) 13
Total actual amount of tax charge 1,882 4,077
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and in accordance with IAS 12, the excess of current and deferred tax over and above 
the relative related cumulative remuneration expense under IFRS 2 has been recognised directly in equity. This amounted to a charge to equity in the 
current period of £NIL (2012: charge to equity of £350,000).
 
13. earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. With respect to the Group these represent share options and conditional shares granted to employees where the exercise price is 
less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Reconciliations of the earnings per ordinary share and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: 
 Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012
  Weighted   Weighted 
  average Per-share 	 	 average	 Per -shar e
 Earnings number of amount Earnings number of amount
 £’000 shares pence £’000 shares pence
Earnings per share basic 4,851 36,085,485 13.44 12,896 35,897,434 35.92
Effect of dilutive securities      
Options and conditional shares — 125,272 (0.04) 	 —	 413,670	 (0.40)
Earnings per share diluted 4,851 36,210,757 13.40 12,896 36,311,104 35.52
14. Dividends
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 8.05 pence (2011 – 7.00p) per share 2,968 2,552
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.1 pence (2012 – 3.80p) per share 770 1,389
 3,738 3,941
Amounts proposed and not recognised:  
Pr oposed 	 final 	 dividend 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2013 	 of 	 2.7p 	 (2012 	 – 	 8.05p) 	 per 	 shar e.	 995 2,945
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly, has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
50
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
15. Goodwill
  Goodwill
 Goodwill arising
 arising on on trade
 purchase of and asset Total
 subsidiaries purchases goodwill
 £’000 £’000  £’000
Cost and carrying amount   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013 	 	 14,133	 3,548	 17,681
   
Recognised 	 on 	 acquisition 	 of 	 trade 	 and 	 assets 	 	 —	 381	 381
Impairment 	 	 —	 (324)	 (324)
At 31 December 2013 14,133 3,605 17,738
   
At 31 December 2013, before impairment testing, goodwill of £1,189,000 was allocated to the stores acquired in 2012 and 2013. These CGUs 
have been impacted by the fall in gold price and increased competition in the year and as a result the Group has recognised an impairment loss of 
£324,000 against goodwill, £33,000 against other intangible assets and £160,000 against property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated as follows:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Harvey & Thompson Limited 14,133 14,133
Stores acquired in 2005 213 213
Stores acquired in 2006 553 553
Stores acquired in 2007 1,516 1,516
Stores acquired in 2008 391 391
Stores acquired in 2010 19 19
Stores acquired in 2011 48 48
Stores acquired in 2012 710 808
Stores acquired in 2013 155	—
 17,738 17,681
The Group considers that the CGUs have indefinite useful lives as the Group is a significant operator in a well-established business together with the 
proven and long term demand for the Group’s services.
The Harvey & Thompson Ltd CGU was created when H&T Group plc acquired Harvey & Thompson Limited in September 2004. Management is 
unable to allocate this goodwill by store and accordingly, tests this for impairment at the subsidiary entity level. All assets acquired after September 
2004 are reviewed for impairment at the related store level. The stores are grouped for financial reporting purposes by year of acquisition to facilitate 
presentation and comparability on a year by year basis. Additionally, store performance is monitored by management based on the year of acquisition 
as 	 the 	 historic 	 performance 	 of 	 an 	 individual 	 stor e 	 is 	 linked 	 to 	 its 	 acquisition 	 date. 	 This 	 appr oach 	 is 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 way 	 management 	 has 	 pr esented 	 the 	
above CGUs. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The impairment review 
was conducted as described in note 4.
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
51
Financial Statement S
16. other intangible assets
  Customer
 Software relationships Total
 £’000 £’000  £’000
Cost   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 1,675	 1,175	 2,850
Additions 2 598 600
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 1,677	 1,773	 3,450
Additions	 —	 673	 673
Disposals	 (2)	 —	 (2)
At 31 December 2013 1,675 2,446 4,121
Amortisation   
At 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 1,275	 728	 2,003
Charge for the year 67 199 266
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 1,342	 927	 2,269
Charge for the year 68 351 419
Impairment	 —	 33	 33
At 31 December 2013 1,410 1,311 2,721
Carrying amount    
At 31 December 2013 265 1,135 1,400
At 31 December 2012 335 846 1,181
   
The customer relationships intangible assets arise from the acquisition of trade and assets of sole partnerships or limited companies with no audited 
accounts 	 and 	 r eflect 	 the 	 r epeat 	 business 	 associated 	 with 	 the 	 pawnbr oking 	 and 	 pay 	 day 	 advance 	 industry 	 fr om 	 existing 	 customers 	 at 	 the 	 acquisition 	
date of the relevant assets. 
The amortisation period for customer relationship intangible assets is between 6 and 8 years and the amortisation period for software intangible 
assets 	 is 	 7 	 years. 	 These 	 amortisation 	 periods 	 r eflect 	 the 	 dir ectors’ 	 best 	 estimate 	 of 	 the 	 estimated 	 useful 	 economic 	 lives 	 of 	 these 	 intangible 	 assets. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
52
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
17. Property, plant and equipment
 Short Long  Fixtures
 leasehold leasehold Computer and
 premises premises equipment fittings Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation     
At 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 20,526	 230	 3,638	 3,846	 28,240
Additions 3,187 88 360 615 4,250
Disposals (1,691) (72) (28) (147) (1,938)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 22,022	 246	 3,970	 4,314	 30,552
Additions 1,768 73 112 222 2,175
Disposals (492) (108) (185) (70) (855)
At 31 December 2013 23,298 211 3,897 4,466 31,872
Accumulated depreciation and impairment     
At 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 9,924	 192	 2,822	 2,232	 15,170
Charge for the year 2,231 14 378 329 2,952
Disposals (1,030) (63) (26) (130) (1,249)
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 11,125	 143	 3,174	 2,431	 16,873
Charge for the year 2,456 22 338 369 3,185
Disposals (366) (99) (143) (60) (668)
Impairment	 160	 —	 —	 —	 160
At 31 December 2013 13,375 66 3,369 2,740 19,550
Carrying amount     
At 31 December 2013 9,923 145 528 1,726 12,322
At 31 December 2012 10,897 103 796 1,883 13,679
     
Capital commitments for tangible and intangible assets are disclosed in note 31.
18. subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note C 
to the Company’s separate financial statements.
19. inventories
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Retail and scrap stock 29,748 26,233
  
Of the retail and scrap stock approximately 99% represents gold, jewellery and watch items. The remaining balance is miscellaneous items (mostly 
electrical goods and art pieces) which were previously held as pledge collaterals and subsequently forfeited.  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
53
Financial Statement S
20. trade and other receivables 
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Trade receivables 45,118 53,651
Other debtors 211 1,028
Pledge 	 accrued 	 income	 6,750 7,033
Pr epayments 	 and 	 other 	 accrued 	 income	 2,043 2,311
 54,122 64,023
 
Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of allowances for bad and doubtful debts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 8,251 6,371
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Further details on financial instruments, including the associated risks to the Group and allowances for bad and doubtful debts and fair values, is 
provided in note 25.
 
21. trade and other payables
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Trade creditors 1,092 1,868
Other taxation and social security costs 504 545
Accruals and deferred income 3,742 4,013
 5,338 6,426
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 30 days (2012 – 29 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the first 30 days from the date of 
the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The Group has financial risk management policies in 
place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Corporation tax 1,076 2,182 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
54
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
22. Borrowings
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Secured borrowing at amortised cost  
Bank loans and overdrafts 3,000 34,000
Total borrowings due for settlement within one year 3,000 34,000
Long term portion of bank loan 26,000	—
Unamortised issue costs (395)	—
Amount due for settlement after more than one year 25,605	—
  
The 	 Gr oup 	 enter ed 	 into 	 a 	 new 	 four 	 year 	 Cr edit 	 Agr eement 	 with 	 Lloyds 	 TSB 	 Bank 	 plc 	 on 	 30 	 January 	 2013. 	 This 	 facility 	 allowed 	 for 	 maximum	
borrowings of £50m, with a margin of between 1.25% and 2.25% dependent on leverage ratios.
The key terms of the new facility are:
Key Term Description
 
Total Facility Size £50m
 
T ermination 	 Date	 30 	 January 	 2017
 
Utilisation The facility is available to be drawn down to the full £50m so long as the Company remains compliant  
 with leverage and interest cover ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Margin The facility has an interest calculation of LIBOR plus a margin of between 1.25% and 2.25%,   
 dependent on ratios as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
 
Inter est 	 Payable	 Inter est 	 due 	 on 	 the 	 loans 	 is 	 payable 	 at 	 each 	 inter est 	 period 	 end. 	 As 	 at 	 31 	 January 	 2013, 	 the 	 inter est 	 	
 period was 1 month.
 Interest amounts outstanding at the year end are included in accruals.
 
Fixed Repayments No capital repayments prior to termination date.
Deferred debt issue costs
On commencement of the loan agreement £535,000 of debt issue costs were capitalised, of these £140,000 have been amortised through the 
income statement in the current year (2012: £nil).
Security
The 	 facility 	 is 	 secur ed 	 by 	 a 	 fixed 	 and 	 floating 	 charge 	 over 	 various 	 assets 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup.
Undrawn borrowing facilities
At 31 December 2013, the Company had available £24,000,000 (2012: £16,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
55
Financial Statement S
23. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year.
 Fixed Hold over Short term Share Derivative
 assets capital timing based financial 
 differences gain differences payment instruments Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 144	 171	 (763)	 (584)	 (105)	 (1,137)
Prior 	 year 	 adjustment	 25	 —	 5	 —	 —	 30
(Cr edit)/charge 	 to 	 income	 (84)	 (14)	 106	 (79)	 105	 34
Cr edit 	 to 	 equity	 —	 —	 —	 350	 —	 350
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 85	 157	 (652)	 (313)	 —	 (723)
Prior 	 year 	 adjustment	 73	 —	 —	 —	 —	 73
(Cr edit)/charge 	 to 	 income	 (188)	 (15)	 (51)	 180	 	 (74)
Debit 	 to 	 equity	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
As 	 31 	 December 	 2013	 (30)	 142	 (703)	 (133)	 —	 (724)
      
Deferred tax assets and liabilities all relate to the same tax jurisdiction and taxable entities, and are expected to reverse over the same time periods. 
Accordingly, these have been offset in the balance sheet.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for a reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and to 20% 
ef fective 	 fr om 	 1 	 April 	 2015, 	 was 	 substantively 	 enacted 	 on 	 2 	 July 	 2013. 	 These 	 rate 	 r eductions 	 have 	 been 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 calculation 	 of 	 deferr ed 	 tax 	 at 	
the balance sheet date.
24. Provisions
   Dilapidation
  provision
  £’000
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013	 	 518
Additional provision  640
Pr ovision 	 utilised/r eleased 	 in 	 the 	 year	 	 —
At 31 December 2013  1,158
 
The dilapidation provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to repair and maintain certain of the properties contracted 
under operating lease agreements. At the reporting date no demand to enforce the dilapidation contractual obligations has been made by the related 
property landlords. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
56
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
25. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, as defined under IAS 39, and their estimated fair values are as follows:
 Fair value  Financial 
 through  liabilities at Book Fair
 profit Loans and amortised value value
 and loss receivables cost total total
At 31 December 2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets     
Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 49,824	 —	 49,824	 55,811
Cheque 	 cashing 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 33	 —	 33	 33
Other 	 financial 	 services 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 1,953	 —	 1,953	 1,953
Other 	 assets	 —	 269	 —	 269	 269
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents	 —	 8,251	 —	 8,251	 8,251
Financial liabilities     
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 —	 —	 (4,632)	 (4,632)	 (4,632)
Borr owings 	 due 	 within 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (3,000)	 (3,000)	 (3,000)
Borr owings 	 due 	 after 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (25,605)	 (25,605)	 (25,605)
Net financial (liabilities)/assets 	 —	 60,330	 (33,237)	 27,093	 33,080
 
 Fair value  Financial 
 through  liabilities at Book Fair
 profit Loans and amortised value value
 and loss receivables cost total total
At 31 December 2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets     
Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 58,272	 —	 58,272	 62,355
Cheque 	 cashing 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 1,168	 —	 1,168	 1,168
Other 	 financial 	 services 	 trade 	 r eceivables	 —	 1,229	 —	 1,229	 1,229
Other 	 assets	 —	 1,043	 —	 1,043	 1,043
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents	 —	 6,371	 —	 6,371	 6,371
Financial liabilities     
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 —	 —	 (4,666)	 (4,666)	 (4,666)
Borr owings 	 due 	 within 	 one 	 year	 —	 —	 (34,000)	 (34,000)	 (34,000)
Net financial (liabilities)/assets 	 —	 68,083	 (38,666)	 29,417	 33,500
     
Fair value
The assumptions used by the Group to estimate the current fair values are summarised below:
(i)	 For 	 trade 	 r eceivables 	 r elating 	 to 	 Pawnbr oking, 	 the 	 fair 	 value 	 has 	 been 	 calculated 	 by 	 adding:
•	 The 	 principal 	 outstanding 	 on 	 pawn 	 loans;	
•	 The 	 inter est 	 r eceivable 	 accrued 	 using 	 the 	 ef fective 	 inter est 	 rate 	 method; 	 and
•	 Assumed 	 scrap 	 pr ofits 	 on 	 the 	 pr oportion 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 pledge 	 book 	 that 	 is 	 not 	 expected 	 to 	 be 	 r edeemed, 	 i.e. 	 those 	 loans 	 upon 	 which 	 the 	
Group does not recognise interest due to the uncertainty of recovery.
(ii) Other trade receivables and other assets are considered to have fair values which are the same as their book values due to the short period over 
which they will be recovered. Book values for both cheque cashing and financial services trade receivables are calculated net of provisions, and 
hence represent the Group’s best estimate of recovery values based upon recent debt collections experience.
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents are all held on interest bearing bank accounts are considered to have a fair value the same as their book value. 
(iv) For borrowings and trade and other payables, the book value approximates to fair value because of their short maturities and interest rates where 
applicable. 	 None 	 of 	 the 	 trade 	 or 	 other 	 payables 	 ar e 	 inter est 	 bearing. 	 The 	 borr owings 	 ar e 	 all 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 inter est 	 rates 	 which 	 appr oximate 	 market 	
rates, and accordingly, the book value and fair value are the same.
The fair value of the pawnbroking trade receivables is determined using a model where the inputs are derived from historical trends monitored by the 
group. This valuation therefore falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy in IAS 39. The fair value of all other financial instruments is equivalent to 
their book value due to their short maturities. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
57
Financial Statement S
25. Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risks
The Group monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the financial instruments held. The principal risks include credit risk on financial assets, 
and liquidity and interest rate risk on financial liability borrowings. The key risks are analysed below.
Credit risk
Pawnbroking trade receivables
The Group is exposed to credit risk through customers defaulting on their loans. The key mitigant to this risk is the requirement for the borrower to 
provide collateral (the pledge) in entering a pawnbroking contract. The collateral acts to minimise credit risk as a customer’s pledge becomes the 
property of the pawnbroker on default of the loan. 
In addition to holding collateral, the Group further mitigates credit risk by:
i) Applying strict lending criteria to all pawn loans
Pledges 	 ar e 	 rigor ously 	 tested 	 and 	 appr opriately 	 valued. 	 In 	 all 	 cases 	 wher e 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 lending 	 policy 	 is 	 applied, 	 the 	 value 	 of 	 the 	 pledge 	 items 	 is 	 in	
excess of the pawn loan.
The Group estimate that the current fair value of the collateral is equal to the current book value. In 2012 the fair value exceeded the book value due 
to the higher profits available on sales of pawnbroking scrap resulting in a higher rate of interest recovery.
 
ii) Seeking to improve redemption ratios:
For existing customers, loan history and repayment profiles are factored into the loan making decision. The Group has a high customer retention ratio 
and all customers are offered high customer service levels.
Given the current price of gold, a fall in redemption ratios is forecast to result in higher scrap profits more than offsetting the lost interest received.  
A 	 2% 	 decr ease/incr ease 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 r edemption 	 ratio 	 is 	 estimated 	 to 	 impact 	 the 	 pr e-tax 	 pr ofit 	 by 	 £136,000 	 / 	 (£136,000). 	 This 	 does 	 not 	 account 	 for 	
lost repeat business however, and as such the Group sees more value in retaining a high redemption ratio.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to risk in recovery of the loan amounts, which is considered to be similar to credit risk, due to:
(i) assets being pledged as security against loans, which are subsequently seized by the police; 
(ii) assets being pledged as security against loans which are subsequently lost or stolen, resulting in the borrower being relieved of the liability to the 
Group.
The legal title that the Group can enforce on these items, and their ongoing security are therefore vital to the Group to ensure that the credit risk is 
mitigated to an acceptable level. The Group continually reviews and monitors, at both store and at Board level, its internal controls to ensure the 
adequacy of the pledged items. The key aspects of this are:
•	 Appr opriate 	 details 	 ar e 	 kept 	 on 	 all 	 customers 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 transacts 	 with;
•	 All 	 pawn 	 contracts 	 comply 	 with 	 the 	 Consumer 	 Cr edit 	 Act 	 2006;
•	 Appr opriate 	 physical 	 security 	 measur es 	 ar e 	 in 	 place 	 to 	 pr otect 	 pledged 	 items;
•	 An 	 internal 	 audit 	 department 	 monitors 	 compliance 	 with 	 policies 	 at 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 stor es.
The 	 Pawnbr oking 	 trade 	 r eceivables 	 ar e 	 disclosed 	 net 	 of 	 the 	 pr ovision 	 for 	 bad 	 and 	 doubtful 	 debts 	 associated 	 with 	 these 	 financial 	 assets, 	 including 	 full 	
provision on assets notified to the Group by the police as frozen assets. The movement in the provision is as follows:
  £’000
Balance 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 	 349
 
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  390
Written off  (291)
Balance at 31 December 2012  448
 
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge   1,059
Written off  (514)
Balance at 31 December 2013  993 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
58
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
25. Financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Pawnbroking trade receivables (continued)
The ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
0 - 90 days 7,812 8,574
Over 90 days 2,518 3,225
Total 10,330 11,799
The Group has not provided for the £10,330,000 (2012 - £11,799,000) contractually overdue receivables (i.e. loans where the pawn agreement has 
terminated but the customer has not redeemed the assets) at the reporting date since the realisable value of the collaterals held is greater than the 
carrying value of the pledge loan as disclosed above. The Group does not start the disposition process of the unredeemed pledges until three months 
after the end of the credit agreement since it is commercial practice to allow additional time for the customers to redeem their pledged items, for an 
additional fee. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk would be £49,824,000 (2012 - £58,272,000), being the gross carrying amount net of any amounts offset and 
any impairment losses.
Other trade receivables
This class represents amounts recoverable by the Group through receivables arising from the other financial services activities it engages in, and is 
exposed 	 to 	 cr edit 	 risk 	 thr ough 	 default 	 on 	 the 	 loan 	 amounts 	 for 	 Pay 	 Day 	 Advance 	 and 	 KwikLoan, 	 or 	 default 	 fr om 	 the 	 drawer 	 for 	 Thir d 	 Party 	 Cheque	
Encashment. On each product the Group employs appropriate policies to mitigate the credit risk including credit checks, obtaining legal security 
provided and appropriate staff recruitment and training policies. The Group monitors the ongoing risk associated with this class of financial assets 
through a continual review of bad debts, modifications to the lending policy, and internal audit activities. In the event of default by the customer, the 
Group has also developed a debt collection department to recover any outstanding debt. 
Cheque cashing and other financial services receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is as follows: 
  Other
 Cheque financial
 cashing services Total
 £’000 £’000  £’000
Balance 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2012	 660	 477	 1,137
   
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  2,379 367 2,746
Written off (2,329) (460) (2,789)
Balance at 31 December 2012 710 384 1,094
   
Net Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge  (177) 1,092 915
Written off (488) (836) (1,324)
Balance at 31 December 2013 45 640 685
   
The Group has no overdue receivables at the reporting date (2012: none). Trade receivables not overdue are provided for based on estimated 
irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. 
Cash and cash equivalents
The 	 cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 balance 	 comprises 	 both 	 bank 	 balances 	 and 	 cash 	 floats 	 at 	 the 	 stor es. 	 The 	 bank 	 balances 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 very 	 limited 	
cr edit 	 risk 	 as 	 they 	 ar e 	 held 	 with 	 banking 	 institutions 	 with 	 high 	 cr edit 	 ratings 	 assigned 	 by 	 international 	 cr edit 	 rating 	 agencies. 	 The 	 cash 	 floats 	 ar e 	 subject 	
to risks similar to any retailer, namely of theft or loss by employees or third parties. These risks are mitigated by the security systems, policies and 
procedures that the Group operates at each store, the Group recruitment and training policies and the internal audit function. 
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
59
Financial Statement S
25. Financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents (continued)
The concentration of net bank balances by counterparty financial institution is as follows:
 Credit 2013 2012
 rating £’000  £’000
Barclays Bank plc A2 933 3,753
Lloyds TSB Bank plc A2 75	—
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc A3 335 329
Cash 	 at 	 stor es	 —	 3,908 2,289
  5,251 6,371
   
Market risk
Pawnbroking trade receivables
The collateral which protects the Group from credit risk on non-redemption of pawn loans is 99% (2012 -99%) comprised of gold, jewellery items 
and watches. The value of gold items held as security is directly linked to the price of gold. The Group is therefore exposed to adverse movements 
in the price of gold on the value of the security that would be attributable for sale in the event of default by the borrower. The Group considers this 
risk 	 to 	 be 	 limited 	 for 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 r easons. 	 First 	 of 	 all, 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 applies 	 conservative 	 lending 	 policies 	 in 	 pawnbr oking 	 pledges 	 r eflected 	 in 	 the 	 blended 	
margin made on retail sales and scrap gold when contracts forfeit. The value of gold for our customers is also much greater than the price of gold 
since jewellery items contain a retail margin. The Group is also protected due to the short term value of the pawn contract (6 months). In the event 
of a significant drop in the price of gold, the Group could mitigate this risk by reducing its lending policy on pawnbroking pledges, by increasing the 
proportion of gold sold through retail sales or by entering gold hedging instruments. Management monitors the gold price on a constant basis. During 
Q4 2013 the cost of goods sold through the retail channel increased by over 100% as a result of management actions in response to the lower gold 
price.
Considering areas outside of those financial assets defined under IAS 39, the Group is subject to higher degrees of pricing risk. The price of gold will 
affect future Group profitability in three key ways:
i) A lower gold price will adversely affect the scrap disposition margins on existing stock, whether generated by pledge book forfeits or via the 
Group’s purchasing operations. While scrap profits will be impacted immediately, retail margins may be less impacted in the short term. 
ii) While the Group’s lending and purchasing rates do not track gold price movements in the short term, any sustained fall in the price of gold is likely 
to cause lending and purchasing rates to fall in the longer term thus potentially reducing future profitability as:
a. the size of the pledge book and associated yield is directly linked to lending rates, and
b. assuming constant disposition margins, absolute disposition profits would decrease as lending and purchasing rates decrease 
iii) A lower gold price may reduce the attractiveness of the Group’s gold purchasing operations.
Conversely, a lower gold price may dampen competition as lower returns are available and hence this may assist in sustaining margins.
 
Liquidity risk
Borrowings
The Group has significant borrowings exposing it to liquidity risk in both repayment of borrowings and availability of finance. In order to mitigate this 
risk, the Group uses a mixture of short-term and long-term debt finance with banking institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies. The current borrowings are disclosed in detail in note 22, which shows that the Group has arrangements in place for funding 
until 2017. At 31 December 2013, the Group also has available £24,000,000 (2012: £16,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. This level of headroom is considered sufficient to finance operations at the current level, and 
as described in note 22, the Group currently has a £50m facility which is available to draw upon. Furthermore, as shown in note 29, the business 
generates 	 a 	 positive 	 cash 	 flow 	 fr om 	 operating 	 activities 	 and 	 has 	 discr etion 	 in 	 its 	 expansion 	 pr ogramme 	 should 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 need 	 to 	 impr ove 	 short 	 term 	
cash 	 flow .
The Group is in full compliance with all loan covenants. 
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
25. Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Borrowings (continued)
The 	 maturity 	 analysis 	 of 	 the 	 cash 	 flows 	 arising 	 fr om 	 both 	 curr ent 	 borr owing 	 arrangements 	 that 	 expose 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 to 	 liquidity 	 risk 	 ar e 	 as 	 follows:
   60 days 180
 Less than 30 to 60 to 180 days to 1-2 2-3 3-4
 30 days days days 1 year years years years Total
Payments due by period £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2013        
Floating rate borrowings 36 36 144 216 432 432 23,036 24,332
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 1,092	 3,540	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 4,632
Total 1,128 3,576 144 216 432 432 23,036 28,964
        
   60 days 180
 Less than 30 to 60 to 180 days to 1-2 2-3 3-4
 30 days days days 1 year years years years Total
Payments 	 due 	 by 	 period	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000 	 	 £’000	 £’000
At 31 December 2012        
Floating rate borrowings 66 67 280 34,073    34,486
T rade 	 and 	 other 	 payables	 1,868	 2,798	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 4,666
Total 	 1,934	 2,865	 280	 34,073	 —	 —	 —	 39,152
        
The 	 amounts 	 r eported 	 above 	 for 	 floating 	 rate 	 borr owings 	 include 	 the 	 principal 	 amount 	 of 	 borr owings 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 the 	 inter est 	 payable 	 on 	 these 	
borr owings. 	 The 	 floating 	 rates 	 used 	 to 	 pr edict 	 the 	 inter est 	 cash 	 flows 	 ar e 	 based 	 on 	 the 	 r elevant 	 LIBOR 	 yield 	 curve 	 derived 	 fr om 	 quoted 	 inter est 	 rates. 	
The 	 above 	 amounts 	 ar e 	 contractual, 	 undiscounted 	 cash 	 flows. 	
Interest rate risk
Borrowings
The 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 funded 	 based 	 on 	 a 	 combination 	 of 	 equity 	 and 	 bank 	 borr owings. 	 The 	 bank 	 borr owings 	 ar e 	 all 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 rates 	 based 	 on 	 LIBOR. 	
Accor dingly 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 exposed 	 to 	 cash 	 flow 	 risk 	 thr ough 	 changes 	 in 	 the 	 LIBOR 	 rate 	 impacting 	 cash 	 flows. 	
Analysis is shown below to demonstrate the sensitivity on profitability of a 1% change in LIBOR, subject to LIBOR being a minimum of 0%. The 
analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1.0% increase 
or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the 
reasonably possible change in interest rates.
 1.0% 1.0%
 decrease increase
 in interest in interest
 rates  rates
 £’000  £’000
At 31 December 2013  
Finance 	 costs: 	 gain/(loss)	 137 (260)
T otal 	 pr e 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 (loss)/gain	 137 (260)
Post 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 equity 	 (loss)/gain	 105 (199)
At 31 December 2012  
Finance 	 costs: 	 gain/(loss)	 168	 (340)
T otal 	 pr e 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 (loss)/gain	 168	 (340)
Post 	 tax 	 impact 	 on 	 equity 	 (loss)/gain	 128	 (258)
   H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
61
Financial Statement S
25. Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Financial Assets
The Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk on the financial assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, as these are lent at fixed rates, 
which 	 r eflect 	 curr ent 	 market 	 rates 	 for 	 similar 	 types 	 of 	 secur ed 	 or 	 unsecur ed 	 lending, 	 and 	 ar e 	 held 	 at 	 amortised 	 cost.
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 ar e 	 exposed 	 to 	 inter est 	 rate 	 risk 	 as 	 they 	 ar e 	 held 	 at 	 floating 	 rates, 	 although 	 the 	 risk 	 is 	 not 	 significant 	 as 	 the 	 inter est 	
receivable is not significant.
 
26. share capital
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Issued and fully paid   
36,856,264 (2012 – 36,586,256) ordinary shares of £0.05 each  1,843 1,830
  
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
In 2013 270,008 new ordinary £0.05 shares were issued, called up and fully paid. Of these new ordinary shares, 6,193 were issued to satisfy options 
granted in 2009 exercised at a grant price of £1.94 per share, resulting in an increase in share capital of £310 and in the share premium account of 
£11,705. 	 The 	 r emaining 	 263,815 	 wer e 	 issued 	 as 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 L TIP 	 scheme 	 as 	 noted 	 below , 	 r esulting 	 in 	 an 	 incr ease 	 in 	 shar e 	 capital 	 of 	 £13,191	
with no change in the share premium account.
In 2012 492,371 new ordinary £0.05 shares were issued, called up and fully paid. Of these new ordinary shares, 3,689 were issued to satisfy options 
granted in 2006 exercised at a grant price of £1.825 per share, resulting in an increase in share capital of £184 and in the share premium account of 
£6,548. A further 4,170 were issued to satisfy options granted in 2007 exercised at a grant price of £2.175 per share, resulting in an increase in share 
capital of £209 and in the share premium account of £8,861. A further 16,287 shares were issued to satisfy options granted in 2008 exercised at a 
grant price of £1.755 per share, resulting in an increase in share capital of £814 and in the share premium account of £27,769. A further 172,281 
shares were issued to satisfy options granted in 2009 exercised at a grant price of £1.94 per share, resulting in an increase in share capital of £8,614 
and 	 in 	 the 	 shar e 	 pr emium 	 account 	 of 	 £325,611. 	 The 	 r emaining 	 295,944 	 wer e 	 issued 	 as 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 L TIP 	 scheme 	 as 	 noted 	 below , 	 r esulting 	 in	
an increase in share capital of £14,797 with no change in the share premium account.
Options over shares of the Company are disclosed in note 27. Under these share option arrangements, there are 1,648,484 (2012 – 1,664,684) open 
options over shares.
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve
Under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 L TIP 	 for 	 dir ectors, 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 issued 	 263,815 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 of 	 £0.05p 	 to 	 the 	 Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust, 	 with 	
consideration paid for through the issuance of a loan to the Trust from the Group. The Group presents these conditional shares as an adjustment to 
own equity at the balance sheet date through the Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve, until the point that the shares are awarded, and cease to be 
conditional 	 awar ds 	 of 	 shar es. 	 The 	 awar d 	 of 	 shar es 	 under 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 conditional 	 upon 	 certain 	 vesting 	 criteria, 	 as 	 outlined 	 in 	 note 	 27.
Movements in this reserve are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to 
stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the 
borrowings disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital,  
reserves and retained earnings. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
26. share capital (continued)
Gearing ratio
Although the Group reviews its gearing ratio at each reporting date, no specific target has been fixed by management. The Group’s gearing ratio at 
the year end is as follows:
 2013  2012
Gearing ratio £’000  £’000
Debt 29,000 34,000
Cash and cash equivalents (8,251) (6,371)
Net debt 20,749 27,629
Equity 88,128 86,765
Net debt to equity ratio 23.5% 32%
Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 22, before unamortised issue costs.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Company.
Externally imposed capital requirement
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
27. share based payments
As at 31 December 2013, the Company operated three share award schemes. The charge for the year in respect of all schemes was:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
A. Approved Share Option Scheme 91 94
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme 13 63
C. 	 Long-term 	 Incentive 	 Plan	 134 274
 238 431
  
Awards that can be granted under the three schemes total a maximum of 3,685,626 shares (2012 – 3,658,626 shares). 
A. Approved Share Option Scheme (‘ASOS’)
The Approved Share Option Scheme is a share option scheme approved by HMRC where favourable tax treatment is received on exercise by the 
employee. The options may be granted to all management from Shop Manager to Executive Director level. The Remuneration Committee of the 
ultimate parent company, H&T Group plc, sets the performance conditions.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have already been met. The performance 
conditions applicable to grants in subsequent years are as follows: 
•	 Options 	 granted 	 in 	 2011, 	 2012 	 and 	 2013 	 become 	 exer cisable 	 subject 	 to 	 continued 	 employment 	 within 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 as 	 at 	 the 	 exer cise 	 date.	
Early exercise of the options is permitted if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his 
employing company.
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows:
  Exercise  Earliest
  price Number date of Expiry
 Grant date pence of shares exercise date
ASOS 	 2006	 September 	 2006	 182.5	 26,564	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
ASOS 	 2007	 May 	 2007	 217.5	 26,940	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
ASOS 	 2008	 May 	 2008	 175.5	 41,291	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
ASOS 	 2009	 April 	 2009	 194.0	 60,404	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
ASOS 	 2010	 April 	 2010	 245.5	 123,702	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
ASOS 	 2011	 April 	 2011	 298.5	 144,687	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
ASOS 	 2012	 Mar ch 	 2012	 297.0	 179,441	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
ASOS 	 2013	 Mar ch 	 2013	 292.25	 211,535	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023
  H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
63
Financial Statement S
27. share based payments (continued)
An external valuation firm has calculated the fair value of the options granted during the year in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standard (“IFRS”) 2. A Black-Scholes model was used to value the ASOS awards as they do not contain any market based performance condition. 
The fair value calculated and assumptions used are as follows:
 2013  2012
Fair value at measurement date 46.20 pence 49.25 pence
Weighted average share price 292.25 pence 297.0 pence
Weighted average exercise price  292.25 pence 297.0 pence
Expected volatility 27.6% 27%
Expected life 6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate 1.068% 1.2%
Expected dividends 4.1% 3.7%
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc shares as an estimate of future 
volatility. The expected life used in the model for both years has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The average remaining contractual life is 7.3 years.
A reconciliation of option movements for the ASOS is set out below:
  2013  2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
 Number exercise Number exercise
 of share price of share price
 options (in pence)  options (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 732,330 261.2 687,941 236.3
Granted during the period 254,703 292.3 234,130 297.0
Forfeited during the period (166,276) 277.6 (59,253) 266.1
Exercised during the period (6,193) 194.0 (130,488) 192.1
Outstanding at the end of the period 814,564 268.1 732,330 261.2
Exercisable at the end of the period 278,901 215.28 175,179 191.2
    
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme (‘USOS’)
The Unapproved Share Option Scheme is a discretionary option scheme under which the Remuneration Committee of H&T Group plc may grant 
options to all Executive Directors and Senior Management of the Company. The Remuneration Committee of H&T Group plc sets the performance 
conditions.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have already been met. The performance 
conditions applicable to grants in subsequent years are as follows: 
•	 In 	 2011, 	 2012 	 and 	 2013 	 that 	 an 	 option 	 may 	 not 	 be 	 exer cisable 	 unless 	 the 	 T otal 	 Shar eholder 	 Return 	 (TSR) 	 over 	 3 	 years 	 exceeds 	 the 	 FTSE 	 AIM 	 100	
performance. 
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment over a three year period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the options is permitted 
if an option holder ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
27. share based payments (continued)
B. Unapproved Share Option Scheme (‘USOS’) (continued)
The options outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
  Exercise  Earliest
  price Number date of Expiry
 Grant date pence of shares of exercise date
USOS 	 2006	 September 	 2006	 182.5	 126,027	 7/09/2009	 6/09/2016
USOS 	 2007	 May 	 2007	 217.5	 112,643	 16/05/2010	 15/05/2017
USOS 	 2008	 May 	 2008	 175.5	 146,424	 15/05/2011	 14/05/2018
USOS 	 2009	 April 	 2009	 194.0	 152,215	 30/04/2012	 29/04/2019
USOS 	 2010	 April 	 2010	 245.5	 226,740	 19/04/2013	 18/04/2020
USOS 	 2011	 April 	 2011	 298.5	 31,682	 18/04/2014	 17/04/2021
USOS 	 2012	 Mar ch 	 2012	 297.0	 11,260	 29/03/2015	 28/03/2022
USOS 	 2013	 Mar ch 	 2013	 292.25	 26,929	 28/03/2016	 27/03/2023
An external valuation firm has undertaken fair value calculations of the options granted during the year using a Black-Scholes model, with the results 
and key assumptions as follows:
 2013  2012
Fair value at measurement date 46.20 pence 42.0 pence
Weighted average share price 292.25 pence 297.0 pence
Weighted average exercise price  292.25 pence 297.0 pence
Expected volatility 27.6% 27%
Expected life  6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate 1.068% 1.2%
Expected dividends 4.1%  3.7%
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc shares as an estimate of future 
volatility. The expected life used in the model for both years has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The average remaining contractual life is 5 years.
A reconciliation of option movements for the USOS is set out below:
  2013  2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
 Number exercise Number exercise
 of share price of share price
 options (in pence)  options (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 932,354 218.5 985,671 215.5
Granted during the period 36,119 292.3 18,177 297.0
Forfeited during the period (134,553) 262.0 (5,555) 230.6
Exercised during the period — — (65,939) 194.0
Outstanding at the end of the period 833,920 214.7 932,354 218.5
Exercisable at the end of the period 764,049 207.3 537,309 191.2 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
65
Financial Statement S
27. share based payments (continued)
C. Long-term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The 	 L TIP 	 is 	 a 	 discr etionary 	 shar e 	 incentive 	 scheme 	 under 	 which 	 the 	 Remuneration 	 Committee 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 can 	 grant 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 at 	 no 	 cost	
to executive directors and other senior management. 
The 	 L TIP 	 operates 	 as 	 conditional 	 shar es 	 awar ded 	 over 	 a 	 defined 	 year 	 performance 	 period 	 and 	 subject 	 to 	 continued 	 employment 	 over 	 a 	 thr ee 	 year 	
period from the date of the grant. Early exercise of the conditional shares is permitted if a share award holder ceases to be employed by reason of 
death, injury, disability, retirement or sale of his employing company.
The performance condition applicable to the 2011 and 2012 grants are as follows: 
•	 That 	 the 	 awar d 	 may 	 not 	 be 	 exer cisable 	 unless 	 the 	 TSR 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 over 	 the 	 performance 	 period 	 exceeds 	 the 	 TSR 	 of 	 the 	 FTSE 	 AIM 	 100	
index. 
•	 For 	 the 	 2011 	 grant, 	 this 	 is 	 measur ed 	 over 	 thr ee 	 separate 	 performance 	 periods. 	 One 	 thir d 	 of 	 the 	 awar d 	 vests 	 if 	 the 	 condition 	 is 	 met 	 in 	 the 	 2011	
calendar year. A further third vests if the condition is met in the 2012 calendar year and the final third vests if the condition is satisfied in the 2013 
calendar year.
•	 For 	 the 	 2012 	 grant, 	 the 	 performance 	 period 	 is 	 fr om 	 1 	 January 	 2012 	 to 	 31 	 December 	 2014.
The performance condition applicable to the 2013 grant is as follows:
•	 The 	 performance 	 period 	 is 	 fr om 	 1 	 January 	 2013 	 to 	 31 	 December 	 2015.
•	 The 	 awar d 	 cannot 	 be 	 exer cised 	 unless 	 the 	 per centage 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 over 	 the 	 performance 	 period 	 is 	 gr eater 	 than 	
22.35% (“the Lower Limit”).
•	 If 	 the 	 per centage 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 over 	 the 	 Performance 	 Period 	 is 	 equal 	 to 	 or 	 gr eater 	 than 	 52% 	 (“the 	 Upper 	 T arget”), 	 the 	
Award may be exercised as to 100% of the Shares subject to the Award.
•	 If 	 the 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 Pr ofit 	 Befor e 	 T ax 	 is 	 between 	 the 	 Lower 	 Limit 	 and 	 the 	 Upper 	 T arget 	 then 	 the 	 A war d 	 may 	 only 	 be 	 exer cised 	 over 	 such 	
percentage between 0% and 100% of the Shares subject to the Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares) as relates to the 
amount by which, on a straight line basis, the Lower Target has been exceeded.
The conditional shares outstanding at the year end were as follows: 
     Earliest
    Number date of
   Grant date of shares exercise
L TIP 	 2011	 	 	 Mar 	 2011	 167,848	 01/04/2014
L TIP 	 2012	 	 	 Apr 	 2012	 190,497	 17/04/2015
L TIP 	 2013	 	 	 Mar 	 2013	 198,513	 28/03/2016
The conditional shares granted during the year were valued by an external valuation firm using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value result and key 
assumptions used in 2013 valuation are as follows:
 2013  2012
Fair value at measurement date 292.2 pence 171.7 pence
Weighted average share price 292.25 pence 292.0 pence
Weighted average exercise price 0 pence 0 pence
Expected volatility  29% 30%
Expected life  3.0 years 3.0 years
Risk free rate 0.8595% 0.6%
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price of the H&T Group plc as an indicator of the future 
volatility. Correlation between the Group and the comparator index was not included within the modelling of fair value calculations since the observed 
correlation was not significant and would therefore have negligible impact on the final fair value.
The average remaining contractual life is 1.3 years for those awards where performance conditions have not yet been satisfied. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
27. share based payments (continued)
C. Long-term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) (continued)
A 	 r econciliation 	 of 	 conditional 	 shar e 	 movements 	 for 	 the 	 L TIP 	 is 	 set 	 out 	 below:
  2013  2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
 Number of exercise Number of exercise
 conditional price conditional price
 shares (in pence)  shares (in pence)
Outstanding at beginning of period 505,658 — 	 488,099	 —
Granted during the period 263,815 — 	 272,206	 —
Forfeited during the period (212,615) — 	 —	 —
Exercised during the period — — 	 (254,647)	 —
Outstanding at the end of the period 556,858 — 	 505,658	 —
28. operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee 
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 7,004 7,027
  
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
 Land and buildings Other
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year 6,296 6,768 138 88
In the second to fifth years inclusive 16,545 16,850 154 114
After five years 13,564 14,297 —	—
 36,405 37,915 292 202
    
Significant operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for rental of store premises. Leases are normally negotiated for an 
average term of 10 years at the then prevailing market rate, with a break option after 5 years.
The Group also sublets some of the premises above the stores, the outstanding receipts from which are immaterial. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
67
Financial Statement S
29. Notes to the cash flow statement
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 4,851 12,896
  
Adjustments for:  
 Investment revenues (1) (2)
 Finance costs 842 1,532
 Movement in fair value of interest rate swap — (418)
 Movement in provisions 640 (36)
 Tax expense – Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1,882 4,077
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,185 2,952
 Amortisation of intangible assets 419 266
 Impairment 517	—
 Share-based payment expense 238 416
 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 187 89
Operating 	 cash 	 flows 	 befor e 	 movements 	 in 	 working 	 capital	 12,760 21,772
  
	 Decr ease/(incr ease) 	 in 	 inventories	 (3,359) 3,206
	 Decr ease/(incr ease) 	 in 	 r eceivables	 10,970 (4,628)
 Decrease in payables (731) (1,914)
Cash generated from operations 19,640 18,436
 Income taxes paid (3,009) (5,462)
 Debt restructuring cost (535)	—
 Interest paid (691) (1,534)
Net cash generated from operating activities 15,405 11,440
  
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other short-
term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
30. r elated party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in 
this note. 
Transactions with directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Report and note 9. There were no other material related party transactions during the year. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors of Harvey & Thompson Limited, the trading subsidiary, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set 
out 	 below 	 in 	 aggr egate 	 for 	 each 	 of 	 the 	 categories 	 specified 	 in 	 IAS 	 24 	 ‘Related 	 Party 	 Disclosur es’:
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Short-term employee benefits 968 1,301
Pension 	 contributions	 71 77
Share-based payments 123 291
 1,162 1,669
31. capital commitments 
There is no significant capital expenditure authorised and contracted for but not provided in the accounts (2012 - £nil). 
32. events after the balance sheet date 
The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.7p (note 14). H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
68
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of H&T Group plc
We have audited the company financial 
statements of H&T Group plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 which comprise 
the Company Balance Sheet, the Company 
combined reconciliation of movements 
in shareholders’ funds and statement of 
movement on reserves and the related notes A 
to F . The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted 	 Accounting 	 Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 	 3 	 of 	 Part 	 16 	 of 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act	
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
r espective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with 	 the 	 Auditing 	 Practices 	 Boar d’ s 	 Ethical	
Standards for Auditors.
scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial 
statements:
•	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of	
the parent company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2013;
•	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance	
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting 	 Practice; 	 and
•	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
opinion on other matters prescribed by 
the companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the 
parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 have 	 not	
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by 
us; or
•	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 financial 	 statements 	
are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
•	 certain 	 disclosur es 	 of 	 dir ectors’	
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and	
explanations we require for our audit.
other matters
We have reported separately on the group 
financial statements of H&T Group plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2013. 
Ian 	 J 	 Smith 	 (Senior 	 Statutory 	 Auditor)
for 	 and 	 on 	 behalf 	 of 	 Deloitte 	 LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Crawley, United Kingdom
 
26 February, 2014 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
69
Financial Statement S
Company balance sheet
At 31 December 2013
  2013  2012
 Note £’000  £’000
Fixed assets   
Investments C 1,129 891
  1,129 891
Current assets   
Debtors D 61,589 41,589
Cash at bank and in hand  46 44
  61,635 41,633
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year E (14,366) (10,476)
Net current assets  47,269 31,157
Total assets less current liabilities  48,398 32,048
Net assets  48,398 32,048
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital F 1,843 1,830
Share premium account  25,409 25,397
Employee Benefit Trust shares reserve  (38) (25)
Share option reserve  1,129 891
Pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	 account	 	 20,055 3,955
Total shareholders’ funds  48,398 32,048
The financial statements of H&T Group plc, registered number 05188117, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on  
26 February, 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by:
J G Nichols
Chief Executive H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
70
Company combined reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds and statement of movements on reserves
Year ended 31 December 2013
    Employee
   Share Benefit Share Profit
  Share premium Trust shares option and loss 2013
2013  capital account reserve reserves account Total
Company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 	 1 	 January	 	 1,830 25,397 (25) 891 3,955 32,048
       
Pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 	 	 	 19,838 19,838
Dividend paid      (3,738) (3,738)
Issue of share capital F 13 12    25
Employee Benefit Trust shares    (13)   (13)
Share option credit taken directly  
 to equity     238  238
At 31 December  1,843 25,409 (38) 1,129 20,055 48,398
    
    Employee
	 	 	 Shar e	 Benefit	 Shar e	 Pr ofit
  Share premium Trust shares option and loss 2012
2012  capital account reserve reserves account Total
Company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 	 1 	 January	 	 1,805	 24,961	 (25)	 475	 8,094	 35,310
       
(Loss) 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (198)	 (198)
Dividend 	 paid	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 (3,941)	 (3,941)
Issue 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital	 F	 25	 436	 —	 —	 —	 461
Employee 	 Benefit 	 T rust 	 shar es	 	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —
Share option credit taken directly 
	 to 	 equity	 	 —	 —	 —	 416	 —	 416
At 31 December  1,830 25,397 (25) 891 3,955 32,048 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
71
Financial Statement S
Notes to the company financial statements 
Year ended 31 December 2013
A. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the current and preceding financial year.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors’ Report.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Taxation
Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively 	 enacted 	 by 	 the 	 balance 	 sheet 	 date. 	 Wher e 	 tax 	 losses 	 ar e 	 surr ender ed 	 to, 	 or 	 r eceived 	 fr om, 	 gr oup 	 companies, 	 the 	 amount 	 r eceived/
surr ender ed 	 is 	 charged/cr edited 	 to 	 the 	 pr ofit 	 and 	 loss 	 account 	 and 	 tr eated 	 as 	 payable 	 to/r eceivable 	 fr om 	 the 	 r elated 	 gr oup 	 party 	 that 	 has 	
surr ender ed/r eceived 	 the 	 losses.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing 
differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of 
gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be 
deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-
discounted basis. 
Investments
Fixed assets investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument 
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends 
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings are recorded in the profit and loss account on the date that the dividend becomes a binding liability 
on the subsidiary company. Under the terms of FRS 6 ‘Acquisitions and mergers’, the Company records dividends arising from pre-acquisition profit 
and loss reserves of its subsidiary undertaking in the profit and loss account and considers whether the distribution affects the carrying value of the 
investment in the subsidiary undertaking.
Dividends payable are recorded as a distribution from retained earnings in the period in which they become a binding liability on the Company.
Related party transactions
The 	 Company 	 has 	 taken 	 advantage 	 of 	 the 	 exemption 	 contained 	 in 	 FRS 	 8, 	 ‘Related 	 Party 	 Disclosur es’, 	 available 	 to 	 par ent 	 Company’ s 	 pr esenting	
single company financial statements together with the consolidated Group financial statements of the Group headed by the Company, not to disclose 
transactions with entities that are part of the group headed by H&T Group plc or investees of the group qualifying as related parties. 
There are no other related party transactions of the Company that require disclosure.
Cash flow statement
The 	 Company 	 is 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 in 	 the 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 gr oup, 	 which 	 pr epar es 	 consolidated 	 financial 	 statements, 	 including 	 a 	 cash 	 flow 	 statement, 	
which 	 ar e 	 publicly 	 available. 	 Consequently , 	 under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 FRS 	 1, 	 ‘Cash 	 Flow 	 Statements’, 	 the 	 Company 	 has 	 not 	 pr epar ed 	 a 	 cash 	 flow 	
statement. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
72
Notes to the company financial statements 
Year ended 31 December 2013
A. Accounting policies (continued)
Share options 
The Company’s trading subsidiary, Harvey & Thompson Limited issues share options to employees in that Company, which are equity settled in 
shares of H&T Group plc. Harvey & Thompson Limited determines the fair value of the options granted measured at the date of grant by use of a 
Black-Scholes model or a Stochastic model depending on the vesting conditions attached to each scheme. This fair value cost of equity-settled 
awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period in the financial statements of Harvey & Thompson Limited, based on the estimate 
of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of any non market-based vesting conditions. 
The Company receives a payment each period, equal to the annual expense recorded in Harvey & Thompson Limited calculated on the basis 
described above. This amount is credited to the profit and loss account each period and is treated in a similar manner to a distribution of dividends 
from Group companies.
B. company profit and loss account
No profit and loss account is presented for the parent company pursuant to section 408 of Companies Act 2006.
The Company made a profit after taxation of £ 19,838,000 in 2013 (2012 - £198,000 loss). The key movement, year on year, relates to dividend 
income of £20,000,000 received from H&T Finance Ltd.
The auditors’ remuneration for the current and preceding financial years is borne by a subsidiary undertaking, Harvey & Thompson Limited. Note 8 to 
the Group financial statements discloses the amount paid in respect of the Company.
The directors did not receive any emoluments for their services to the company (2012 - £nil). Other than the directors, the Company has no 
employees in either financial year.
c. investments
  Total
Shares in subsidiary undertakings  £’000
Cost 
At 	 1 	 January 	 2013 	 	 	 891
Additions  238
At 31 December 2013  1,129
 
W ithin 	 the 	 cost 	 at 	 1 	 January 	 2013 	 includes 	 cost 	 of 	 shar es 	 in 	 subsidiary 	 undertakings 	 of 	 £1.	
Additions relates to the share options given to subsidiary employees in 2013.
The investments in Group companies which are all included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
  Proportion of ordinary
 Country of shares held:
Name of company incorporation Directly: Indirectly: Principal activity
H&T 	 Finance 	 Limited	 Gr eat 	 Britain	 100%	 —	 Management 	 of 	 finance
    
H a r v e y 	 & 	 T h o m p s o n 	 L i m i t e d 	 G r e a t 	 B r i t a i n 	 — 	 1 0 0 % 	 Pawnbr oking, 	 jewellery 	 sales, 	 gold 	 pur chasing, 	 	
    unsecured lending, cheque cashing and  
    related services
The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiary undertakings.
D. Debtors
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 61,565 41,565
Pr epayments 	 and 	 accrued 	 income	 24 24
 61,589 41,589 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
73
Financial Statement S
e. creditors: amounts falling due within one year
 2013  2012
 £’000  £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 14,212 10,388
Accruals and deferred income 154 88
 14,366 10,476
F . share capital
Please 	 r efer 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 H&T 	 Gr oup 	 plc 	 for 	 details 	 of 	 shar e 	 capital 	 including 	 shar es 	 issued 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 (note 	 26), 	 and 	 dividends 	
paid and proposed (notes 14 and 32). H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
74
Store directory
Acton 
158 High Street, W3 6QZ 
Tel: 020 8993 2586
Ayr 
114 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 KA7 	 1PQ	 
Tel: 01292 619 867 
Barking  
27 East Street, IG11 8ER  
Tel: 020 8594 6100 
Basildon  
1a 	 Market 	 Pavement, 	 SS14 	 1DD	 
Tel: 01268 281 223 
Bedminster
84 East Street, Bedminster, Bristol, BS3 4EY  
Tel: 01179 666 321
Bexleyheath 
109 	 The 	 Br oadway 	 Centr e, 	 DA6 	 7JH 
Tel: 020 8303 9403
Birkenhead  
The Grange Shopping Centre  
26 	 Bor ough 	 Pavement, 	 CH41 	 2XX	 
Tel: 0151 647 5053 
Birmingham 
102 Bull Street, B4 7AA 
Tel: 0121 236 3082
Birmingham 
10 Ethel Street, B2 4BG 
Tel: 0121 632 5166
Blackburn 
Unit 2, 3 Ainsworth Street, BB1 6AS 
Tel: 01254 260 040
Blackpool 
97-99 Central Drive, FY1 5EE 
Tel: 01253 622 039 
Bolton 
13 Newport Street, BL1 1NE 
Tel: 01204 385 530 
Bootle 
Unit 115, Strand Shopping Centre,  
L20 4SU 
Tel: 0151 933 7438 
Bow 
575 Roman Road, E3 5EL 
Tel: 020 8983 9553  
Bradford 
26 	 James 	 Str eet, 	 BD1 	 3PZ 
Tel: 01274 390 675  
Brighton 
4 Castle Square, BN1 1EG 
Tel: 01273 326 061 
Brixton 
Ar ch 	 9, 	 Atlantic 	 Road, 	 SW9 	 8HX 
Tel: 020 7733 8457
Bromley 
78 High Street, BR1 1EY 
Tel: 020 8460 2986 
Burnt oak 
75 	 Burnt 	 Oak 	 Br oadway , 	 HA8 	 5EP 
Tel: 020 8952 2523
Bury 
22 	 Market 	 Str eet, 	 BL9 	 0AJ 
Tel: 0161 797 1330 
camberwell 
72 Denmark Hill, SE5 8RZ  
Tel: 020 7738 7927
catford 
58 	 Rushey 	 Gr een, 	 SE6 	 4JD 
Tel: 020 8690 3549 
chalk Farm 
36 	 Chalk 	 Farm 	 Road, 	 NW1 	 8AJ 
Tel: 020 7485 2668
chatham 
321 High Street, ME4 4BN 
Tel: 01634 811 811
cheetham Hill 
Unit 5 Cheetham Hill Shopping Centre, M8 5EL
Tel: 0161 740 6556
chelmsford 
25 	 High 	 Chelmer , 	 CM1 	 1XR
Tel: 01245 259 004
clapham 
9 Northcote Road, SW11 1NG 
Tel: 020 7228 3807
clapton 
157 Clapton Common, E5 9AE 
Tel: 020 8809 1488
clydebank 
25 Sylvania Way South, G81 1EA 
Tel: 0141 952 6396 
colchester 
10 Short Wyre Street, CO1 1LN 
Tel: 01206 765 433
corby 
19 Corporation Street, NN17 1NG 
Tel: 01536 402 886
cosham 
32 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 PO6 	 3BZ 
Tel: 02392 389 940
county r oad 
66 County Road, Walton, 
Liverpool, L4 3QL
Tel: 0151 523 0085
coventry 
10 	 Hales 	 Str eet, 	 CV1 	 1JD 
Tel: 02476 256 220
coventry 
Unit 	 1, 	 Shelton 	 Squar e, 	 CV1 	 1DG 
Tel: 02476 223 623
crawley 
11 	 Br oadwalk, 	 Northgate, 	 RH10 	 1HJ 
Tel: 01293 618 270
crewe  
c/o 	 Cr ewe 	 Jewellers, 	 21 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 CW1 	 2HF 
Tel: 01270 254 888
croydon east 
16 	 George 	 Str eet, 	 CR0 	 1P A 
Tel: 020 8680 1470
croydon West
12 London Road, CR0 2TA
Tel: 020 8680 4738
croydon Whitgift 
Unit 145A Whitgift Centre, CR0 1UT 
Tel: 020 8680 4443
Dagenham 
299 Heathway, RM9 5AQ 
Tel: 020 8592 8848
Dalston 
52 	 Kingsland 	 High 	 St., 	 E8 	 2JP 
Tel: 020 7254 1788
Darlington 
23 Skinnergate, DL3 7NW 
Tel: 01325 361 781
Dartford 
Unit 33, The Orchards Shopping Centre,  
DA1 1DN 
Tel: 01322 224 918
Deptford 
72 Deptford High Street, SE8 4RT 
Tel: 020 8692 3092
Deptford 
60 Deptford High Street, SE8 4RT 
Tel: 020 8469 4204
Derby 
33 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 DE1 	 1ES 
Tel: 01332 291 623
Doncaster 
23 High Street, DN1 1DW 
Tel: 01302 812 099
Downham 
438 	 Br omley 	 Road, 	 BR1 	 4PP 
Tel: 020 8697 6212
Dudley 
215 Wolverhampton St., DY1 1EF 
Tel: 01384 238 577
Duke street 
487 Duke Street, Glasgow, G31 1DL 
Tel: 0141 554 9332
Dundee 
116 Seagate, DD1 2ET 
Tel: 01382 205 213
Durham 
69 North Road, DH1 4SQ  
Tel: 0191 374 1813
east Ham 
47 High Street North, E6 1HS 
Tel: 020 8586 6775
east Kilbride 
10 	 Princes 	 Mall, 	 G74 	 1LB 
Tel: 01355 232 520
easterhouse 
Unit 19, Shandwick Square Shopping Centre  
Bogbain Rd, G34 9DT 
Tel: 0141 771 8796
eastleigh 
43-45 Market Street, SO50 5RF 
Tel: 02380 615 552
edinburgh 
106 	 Lauriston 	 Place, 	 EH3 	 9HX 
Tel: 0131 229 4448
edinburgh 
78a Nicolson Street, EH8 9EW 
Tel: 0131 667 2022
edmonton 
16 South Mall, Edmonton Green Shopping 
Centre, N9 0TN 
Tel: 020 8807 8302
elephant and castle 
212 E&C Shopping Centre, SE1 6TE 
Tel: 020 7252 4602
ellesmere Port 
43 Marina Drive,  
Port 	 Ar cades 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 
CH65 0AN 
Tel: 0151 357 3176
eltham 
89 Eltham High Street, SE9 1TD 
Tel: 020 8850 6963
Fareham 
119a 	 W est 	 Str eet, 	 PO16 	 0DY 
Tel: 01329 288 838
Finsbury  
259-261 Seven Sisters Road, N4 2DD  
Tel: 020 7272 9249 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
75
Financial Statement S
Forest Gate
29 Woodgrange Road, E7 8BA 
Tel: 020 8555 5120
Fulham 
224 Northend Road, W14 9NU 
Tel: 020 7385 3188
Gateshead 
Unit 	 5, 	 Jackson 	 Str eet, 	 NE8 	 1EE 
Tel: 0191 478 4107
Gillingham 
169 High Street, ME7 1AQ 
Tel: 01634 855 053
Glasgow 
9-11 Bath Street, G2 1HY 
Tel: 0141 332 5637
Gloucester 
Unit 8, Grosvenor House, Station Road, GL1 1SZ 
Tel: 01452 309 042
Govan 
595 Govan Road, G51 2AS 
Tel: 0141 445 1567
Gravesend 
21 King Street, DA12 2EB 
Tel: 01474 363 611
Great Bridge  
51 Great Bridge, DY4 7HF 
Tel: 0121 557 1413
Great Western 
156 Great Western Road, G4 9AE 
Tel: 0141 332 0878
Green street
342 	 Gr een 	 Str eet, 	 Upton 	 Park, 	 London, 	 E13 	 9AP 	 	
Tel: 020 8471 1335
Greenock  
Unit 3 Hamilton Gate, 
Oakmall 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 P A15 	 1JW 
Tel: 01475 726 616
Grimsby 
6 	 V ictoria 	 Str eet, 	 DN31 	 1DP 
Tel: 01472 355 489
Hackney 
384 Mare Street, E8 1HR 
Tel: 020 8533 5663
Hammersmith 
134 King Street, W6 0QU 
Tel: 020 8563 8585
Harlesden 
72 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 NW10 	 4SJ	
Tel: 020 8838 5122
Harlow
23 	 Br oad 	 W alk, 	 CM20 	 1JF	
Tel: 01279 417 128
Harlow
111 The Stow, CM20 3AS 
Tel: 01279 635 565
Harrow
324b 	 Station 	 Road, 	 HA1 	 2DX
Tel: 020 8861 1534
Harrow
14 St Anns Road, HA1 1LG 
Tel: 020 8863 0069
Hastings
18 Queens Road, Hastings, TN34 1QY
Tel: 01424 430 190
Hayes
46 Station Road, UB3 4DD
Tel: 020 8589 0805
Holloway 
9 	 Seven 	 Sisters 	 Road, 	 N7 	 6AJ	
Tel: 020 7281 8559
Hounslow
30 High Street, TW3 1NW
Tel: 020 8570 4626
Hounslow 
253 High Street, TW3 1EA   
Tel: 020 8577 0084
Hull
37 	 Pr ospect 	 Centr e, 	 HU2 	 8PP
Tel: 01482 228 946
Hyde
Unit 5, The Mall, Clarendon Square Shopping 
Centre, SK14 2QT
Tel: 0161 351 7812
ilford
91-93 	 Cranbr ook 	 Road, 	 IG1 	 4PG
Tel: 020 8514 3334
ilford
211 	 High 	 Road, 	 IG1 	 1LX
Tel: 020 8514 6372
irvine
1/3 	 Bridgegate, 	 KA12 	 8BJ
Tel: 01294 273 823 
Kilburn
139 Kilburn High Road, NW6 7HR
Tel: 020 7624 3367 
Kilmarnock
25 	 King 	 Str eet, 	 KA1 	 1PT
Tel: 01563 527 748
Kingston upon thames
26 Castle Street, KT1 1SS
Tel: 020 8546 8365
Kirkby
Unit 11b, St Chads Way, Kirkby, L32 8RD
Tel: 0151 546 6622
Kirkcaldy
85 High Street, Kirkcaldy, Fife, KY1 1LN
Tel: 01592 262 554
Knightswood 
746 Anniesland Road, Glasgow, G14 0YU
Tel: 0141 959 3694
Leeds
8 New Market Street, LS1 6DG
Tel: 01132 449 352
Leicester
69 	 Market 	 Place, 	 LE1 	 5EL
Tel: 0116 262 4566
Leigh
53 Bradshawgate, WN7 4NB
Tel: 01942 673 012
Leith
Unit 6, Newkirkgate Shopping Centre,
EH6 6AA
Tel: 0131 555 3298
Lewisham
121 Lewisham High Street, SE13 6AT
Tel: 020 8852 9961
Leyton
281 High Road, E10 5QN
Tel: 020 8539 8332
Liverpool 
Unit 6, 42-46 Whitechapel, L1 6DZ
Tel: 0151 709 2151
Livingston
Unit 22, Almondvale Shopping Centre, 
EH54 6HR
Tel: 01506 431 779
Luton
174 The Arndale Centre, LU1 2TL
Tel: 01582 486 711
Macclesfield
23 	 Chestergate, 	 SK11 	 6BX
Tel: 01625 430 699
Margate 
72 High Street, Margate, CT9 1DT 
Tel: 01843 292 189
Middlesbrough
45 Dundas Street, TS1 1HR
Tel: 01642 223 849
New Addington 
14 	 Central 	 Parade, 	 CR0 	 0JB
Tel: 01689 847 388
Newcastle
117 Grainger Street, NE1 5AE  
Tel: 0191 232 1924
Newcastle
16 Newgate Shopping Centre, NE1 5RB  
Tel: 0191 232 6908
Northampton
Unit 3, 71B Abington Street, NN1 2BH 
Tel: 01604 239 085
Nottingham
22-24 	 Upper 	 Parliament 	 Str eet, 	 NG1 	 2AD
Tel: 0115 947 6560
o ldham 
Unit 34, Town Square Shopping Centre, 
Town Centre, OL1 1HD
Tel: 0161 627 5904
orpington
221 High Street, BR6 0NZ
Tel: 01689 870 280
orpington
Unit 35, The Walnuts Shopping Centre,  
High Street, BR6 0TW
Tel: 01689 874 306
Paddington
63 	 Praed 	 Str eet, 	 W2 	 1NS	
Tel: 020 7723 5736
Partick
333 Dumbarton Road, G11 6AL
Tel: 0141 334 1258
Peckham
51 High Street, SE15 5EB
Tel: 020 7703 4547
Penge  
136 High Street, SE20 7EU  
Tel: 020 8676 8220
Peterborough
1 	 W estgate, 	 PE1 	 1PX
Tel: 01733 310 794
Poplar
22 Market Way, E14 6AH
Tel: 020 7987 1596
Portsmouth
186 	 Kingston 	 Road, 	 PO2 	 7LP
Tel: 02393 691 751
Preston
11 	 Friargate, 	 PR1 	 2AU
Tel: 01772 563 495
r eading
31 Oxford Road, Broad Street Mall, 
RG1 7QG
Tel: 0118 959 9946
r ochdale
92 	 Y orkshir e 	 Str eet, 	 OL16 	 1JX
Tel: 01706 525 709 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
76
Store directory
continued
r omford
Unit 30, Liberty 2, Mercury Gardens 
RM1 3EE
Tel: 01708 755 420
r otherham
2 	 Effingham 	 Str eet, 	 S65 	 1AJ 
Tel: 01709 363 686
r ugby
1 	 Chur ch 	 Str eet, 	 CV21 	 3PH
Tel: 01788 577 110
r uncorn
Unit 119, Halton Lea Shopping Centre,
W A7 	 2BX
Tel: 01928 796 318 
r utherglen
Unit 3, Mitchell Arcade,
Rutherglen Shopping Centre, G73 2LS
Tel: 0141 647 6040 
salford
70 Fitzgerald Way, Salford Shopping Centre,  
M6 5HW
Tel: 0161 745 7949  
scunthorpe
114 High Street, DN15 6HB
Tel: 01724 843 817
sheffield
The Kiosk, 1-13 Angel Street, S3 8LN
Tel: 0114 276 9281
shepherds Bush  
220 	 Uxbridge 	 Road, 	 W12 	 7JD	 
Tel: 020 8811 2665 
sidcup
76 High Street, DA14 6DS
Tel: 020 8300 6242 
slough
64 High Street, SL1 1EL
Tel: 01753 693 303
smethwick  
Unit 	 16, 	 W est 	 Cr oss 	 Shopping 	 Centr e, 	 B66 	 1JG	
Tel: 0121 555 7277
soho r oad
224 Soho Road, Birmingham, B21 9LR
Tel: 0121 507 0185
south Norwood  
24 High Street, SE25 6EZ  
Tel: 020 8771 8142
southall
1A 	 The 	 Br oadway , 	 UB1 	 1JR
Tel: 020 8843 4920
southall
Sona Loans, 10 King Street, UB2 4DA
Tel: 020 8843 9027 
southampton
113a East Street, SO14 3HD
Tel: 02380 639 945 
southend-on-s ea  
95 Southchurch Road, SS1 2NL  
Tel: 01702 469 977
springburn
Unit 13, Springburn Shopping Centre,
Springburn Way, G21 1TS
Tel: 0141 558 7569
st. Helens 
4 Ormskirk Street, WA10 1BH
Tel: 01744 610 331
stevenage
24 Westgate Centre, SG1 1QR
Tel: 01438 365 153
stirling
33-35 	 Murray 	 Place, 	 FK8 	 1DQ
Tel: 01786 478 945 
stockport
109 	 Princes 	 Str eet, 	 SK1 	 1R W
Tel: 0161 476 5860
stockton
107-108 High Street, TS18 1BB
Tel: 01642 616 005 
stoke Newington  
123 	 Stoke 	 Newington 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 N16 	 0PH 
Tel: 020 7923 9233
stoke on trent
49-51 Stafford Street, ST1 1SA
Tel: 01782 268 144 
stratford  
Unit 	 27, 	 The 	 Mall, 	 Stratfor d 	 Centr e, 	 E15 	 1XD	 
Tel: 020 8519 7770 
streatham
254 Streatham High Rd, SW16 1HT
Tel: 020 8677 4508 
stretford
Unit 44, Ground Floor Brody Street Mall, Streford 
Mall Shopping Centre, M32 9BB  
Tel: 0161 865 4930
sunderland
26 	 Blandfor d 	 Str eet, 	 SR1 	 3JH
Tel: 0191 565 0008 
surrey Quays
196 Lower Road, SE16 2UN
Tel: 020 7231 6177 
sutton
232 High Street, SM1 1NT
Tel: 020 8643 9994
sutton in Ashfield
Unit 44, Idlewells Shopping Centre, 
NG17 	 1BJ
Tel: 01623 559 596
swindon
46 Bridge Street, SN1 1BL
Tel: 01793 491 731 
sydenham  
37 	 Sydenham 	 Road, 	 SE26 	 5EX	 
Tel: 020 8778 4964 
tooting
63 	 Mitcham 	 Road, 	 SW17 	 9PB	
Tel: 020 8672 5127 
tooting Junction
20-22 London Road, SW17 9HW
Tel: 020 8640 7575
tottenham
518 	 High 	 Road, 	 N17 	 9SX
Tel: 020 8808 0600
tuebrook
549 West Derby Road, L13 8AD 
Tel: 0151 228 9298
Uxbridge
Unit 11 Chequers Square, The Mall, UB8 1LN
Tel: 01895 230 503
Wallasey  
Kiosk 	 B/C, 	 The 	 Cherry 	 T r ee, 	 CH44 	 5XU 
Tel: 0151 638 7744
Wallsend
28 	 High 	 Str eet 	 East, 	 NE28 	 8PQ
Tel: 0191 234 5769 
Walsall
10a Digbeth Square, WS1 1QU
Tel: 01922 638 501 
Walthamstow 
234 	 High 	 Str eet, 	 E17 	 7JH
Tel: 020 8521 8156
Walton Vale
27 	 W alton 	 V ale, 	 Liverpool, 	 L9 	 4RE
Tel: 0151 525 5182
Walworth
389 Walworth Road, SE17 2AW
Tel: 020 7703 2946
Walworth
241 Walworth Road, SE17 1RL
Tel: 020 7277 4809
Waterloo
111 Lower Marsh, SE1 7AE
Tel: 020 7928 0382
Watford
114 High Street, WD17 2GW
Tel: 01923 247 740
Welling
3 	 Bellegr ove 	 Road, 	 DA16 	 3P A
Tel: 020 8303 3645
Welwyn Garden city  
Unit 35a The Howard Centre,  
Howards Gate, AL8 6HA  
Tel: 01707 326 171
Wembley
544 High Road, HA0 2AA
Tel: 020 8795 5811
West Bromwich
64 Kings Square (High Street),  
Sandwell Ctr, B70 7NW
Tel: 0121 553 2728
West ealing
102 The Broadway, W13 0SY
Tel: 020 8567 2016
Wigan
21 Hope Street, Galleries Shopping Centre,  
WN1 1QF 
Tel: 01942 237 518
Willesden
70 	 High 	 Road, 	 NW10 	 2PU
Tel: 020 8459 3527
Wolverhampton
10a 	 Cleveland 	 Str eet, 	 WV1 	 3HH
Tel: 01902 425 648
Wolverhampton  
15-16 	 Queen 	 Str eet, 	 WV1 	 3JW	 
Tel: 01902 424 908
Wood Green
12 Cheapside, N22 6HH
Tel: 020 8889 9484
Woolwich
4 	 Powis 	 Str eet, 	 SE18 	 6LF
Tel: 020 8317 9265
Worcester Park  
148 Central Road, KT4 8HH  
Tel: 020 8337 7307
Worksop
27-29 Bridge Street, S80 1DA
Tel: 01909 488 584 
Wythenshawe
Unit 1D, Hale Top, Civic Centre, M22 5RN
Tel: 0161 498 8431 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk H&t Group plc
Times House
Throwley Way
Sutton
Surrey
SM1 4AF
Tel: 0870 9022 600
www.handtgroup.co.uk
