 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 30 June 2007 
Issued by Hargreaves Lansdown
Kendal House, Brighton Mews, Clifton, Bristol BS8 2NX
Registered number: 2122142 Page
Financial highlights 2
Our business and objectives 3
Chairman’s statement 5
Chief Executive’s review 6
Operating and financial review 8
Management team 17
Corporate Governance
Directors’ report 19
Corporate governance statement 23
Audit Committee report 28
Directors’ remuneration report 31
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 37
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report 38
Consolidated income statement 39
Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense 40
Consolidated and Company      
balance sheet 41
Statement of cash flows 42
Notes to the financial statements 43
Directors, company details, advisors 71
Five-year summary 72
We aim to help
investors make
more of their
investments by
providing the best
information, the
best service and
the best prices in
a manner which
creates most
value for our
shareholders. 
Contents About us
2006/07 highlights: Our aim
Hargreaves Lansdown distributes
investment products and attracts high
quality earnings based upon the value of
investments under administration or
management.  
Our success can be attributed to
innovative marketing, a high retention
of clients, through the provision of first
class service and information and a
unique direct selling model which is cost
effective, scalable and affords a high
profit margin.
 Total assets under administration increased by
67% to £10.2 billion at 30 June 2007, including
£0.8 billion of Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares
held in Vantage
 Revenue increased by 34% to £98.8 million
 Underlying operating profit increased by 67% to
£40.7 million
 Underlying operating profit margin increased
from 33% to 41%
 The Company listed on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange in May 2007.  In
September 2007 the Company entered the
FTSE 250. 
1
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report cover 10.07:Layout 1  18/10/07  16:43  Page 2 Our Company
2007 2006 Increase %
Revenue £98.8m £73.5m 34%
Proportion of recurring revenue 65% 61% 4 pts
Underlying operating profit 
(*)
£40.7m £24.3m 67%
Underlying operating profit margin 41% 33% 8 pts
Total assets under administration 
(**)
£10.2 bn £6.1 bn 67%
Underlying diluted earnings per share 
(***)
6.4p 4.2p 52%
Financial Highlights
 34% increase in revenue 
Revenue increased by 34 per cent to £98.8 million, principally due to an increase in revenue of
£23.6 million across the Vantage, Discretionary and Advisory divisions resulting from increased
assets under administration and management and a full year’s revenue on assets secured in the
previous year.  The proportion of recurring revenue i.e management fees, renewal commission
and interest, increased from 61% to 65%. 
 41% underlying operating profit margin 
The Group’s operating margin increased from 33 per cent to 41 per cent.  The increase resulted
from revenue growth, driven by higher asset values, which did not necessitate an equivalent rise
in costs.
 £10.2 billion total assets under
administration
The 67 per cent growth in asset values is attributable to strong new business volumes, the
addition of Hargreaves Lansdown shares to the platform (£805 million as at 30 June 2007), and
market growth. The FTSE All Share index increased by 15 per cent during the year, from
2967.58 to 3404.14.
 52% increase in underlying diluted EPS
From 4.2 pence to 6.4 pence.
 £13.4 million of investment revenue and
other gains
This is primarily due to the disposal of a number of investments during 2007, including
holdings in EMX Company Limited and the London Stock Exchange plc which resulted in net
gains of £11.9 million.
(*) Operating profit before taxation and exceptional administrative expenses
(**) Includes £805 million of Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares held in Vantage 
(***) Based upon earnings before exceptional administrative expenses and investment gains, and the full issued share capital 
Revenue (£ million)
42.5
2004 2005 2006 2007
50.4 73.5 98.8
Underlying profit margin
2004 2005 2006 2007
23.2 26.0 33.0 41.2
Total assets under administration (£billion)
2004 2005 2006 2007
2.9 4.1 6.1 10.2
Underlying EPS (pence)
2004 2005 2006 2007
1.6 2.2 4.2 6.4
2
%
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 1 Hargreaves Lansdown offers a range of investment products, investment services, financial planning and advice.  We have established
a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money products to private investors, whether they are making their own
investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service. 
The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private investor fund supermarket and wrap platform.  Vantage offers clients the
administrative convenience of being able to hold and manage their investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds,
investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing service
and instant online access.
The Group also provides investment management, independent financial advisory and stockbroking services to private investors and
advisory services to companies in respect of group pension schemes.
Our business 
Revenue contribution 
We have five main operating divisions:
Vantage
Advisory
Discretionary
Third Party 
Stockbroking
in addition to our Central support services division. 
Vantage 53%
Stockbroking 6%
Third Party 20%
Discretionary 7%
Central services 2%
Advisory 12%
At a glance
Assets under administration at 30 June 2007
£10.2 bn (2006: £6.1 bn)
Revenue for the year to 30 June 2007
£98.8 m (2006: £73.5 m)
Underlying operating profits for the year to 30 June 2007
£40.7 m (2006: £24.3 m)
Employees (full time equivalents) at 30 June 2007
648 (2006: 568)
Offices
Bristol, also satellite office in London,
and financial advisers throughout the UK
Website
www.H-L.co.uk
3
Recent awards
2007
 What Investment Best SIPP Provider 
 What Investment Best Share Dealing Service 
 Personal Finance and Savings Awards - Best IFA 2007 
 Financial Adviser - Corporate Adviser of the Year 2007
- Nic Nicolaou 
 Financial Adviser - SIPP Adviser of the Year 2007 -
Danny Cox 
 UK Pension Awards - SIPP Provider of the Year 
2006
 Money Marketing IFA of the Year 
 Investors Chronicle Best Online Broker Customer
Service 
 Money Marketing Best Pension Advisor 
 Real Adviser Best Cautious & Income Multi-Manager
Fund (HL Multi-Manager I&G Portfolio Trust) 
 Money Management Financial Planner of the Year –
Ethical Planner award 
 Jonathon Timms Memorial Award best Certified
Financial Planner entry 2006 
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 2 Mission 
Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help investors make more
of their money by providing a combination of the best
information, the best service and the best prices in its areas of
operation, thereby creating value for clients, staff and
shareholders.
Objectives
 We strive to make Hargreaves Lansdown the best and most
profitable in all the areas in which it operates.  
 We aim to attract and retain clients by identifying and
satisfying their investment requirements fairly and profitably.
Whether they are making their own investment decisions, or
looking for advisory or discretionary services, we aim to offer
a broad range of investment solutions.
 We strive to provide shareholders with a growing stream of
dividend income, delivered by steady and consistent growth
in earnings per share as market conditions permit.
 We aim to provide our staff with satisfying careers and an
opportunity to contribute to and participate in the success of
the business.
Strategy
To fulfil our objectives, we need to command and retain the
trust of our clients by consistently delivering on the
commitments we make.  We must maintain our client focus,
putting the best long term interests of the client first, regardless
of short term pressures, fashions or market conditions.  By
creating value for our clients, we believe we will create long term
value for shareholders and provide fulfilling careers for our staff.
In particular, we shall focus on the following:
 Continued direct, quality service to generate growth in
Vantage, our direct to investor fund supermarket and wrap
platform;
 Strong performance to increase assets under management in
the Hargreaves Lansdown range of multi-manager funds and
our Portfolio Management Service;
 Continuing to provide a premium personal financial advisory
service, using our direct mail expertise to streamline the
advisory process;
 Continuing to provide a high quality Stockbroking service;
 Continuing to improve terms and earnings quality within the
business;
 Heightening the visibility of the Hargreaves Lansdown
brand;
 Continuing in our commitment to provide high quality
service to clients through all the channels available, but
helping more clients to benefits from online usage;
 Increasing operational efficiency and maintaining rigorous
cost control;
 Managing risk effectively; and
 Independent, clear information, or advice if preferred, so
that people can identify their financial priorities and choose
appropriate products and solutions.
Our Objectives 
4
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 3 Whilst positive market conditions have no doubt contributed to
our good results this year, our marketing team has also been
successful at both encouraging existing clients to entrust us with
more of their wealth and attracting new clients into Vantage, our
fund supermarket and wrap platform, and discretionary
management services. In particular, the growth in assets in our
Vantage SIPP has been substantial and we anticipate this to be an
area of continued expansion in the future.  
Strong investment performance and the expansion of our team of
advisers have enabled us to substantially grow funds under
management in our multi-manager funds and our Portfolio
Management Service (PMS) during the year. To the credit of our
investment team our four multi-manager funds have performed
consistently well throughout the year with all funds achieving top
quartile performance within their respective peer groups over the
12 month period to the end of June 2007.
The success of our Corporate Solutions division was a major factor
in growing revenue from third party business. This division
continues to attract larger corporate clients. At the year end, there
were 77 pension schemes on our books which contained a
minimum of a hundred members, an increase of 43 per cent on
the previous year.  
On 15 May 2007 the Group floated on the London Stock
Exchange.  This was a momentous milestone in the life of
Hargreaves Lansdown. As predicted and hoped for, the increased
profile of the Group has already started to benefit the business.
We believe that the increased visibility of Hargreaves Lansdown as
a public company will afford both our corporate and individual
clients even greater comfort about dealing with us and entrusting
us with their savings.  We have enjoyed the dialogue with our new
shareholders and look forward to continuing it in the future.  Our
local profile has improved our ability to recruit staff and improved
the quality of applicants.  
Mike Evans, former Chief Operating Officer of Skandia UK
Limited, and Jonathan Bloomer, former Chief Executive of
Prudential plc, joined the board as non-executive directors in
August and September 2006 respectively.  Their knowledge and
experience in the financial services industry has already proved to
be of great assistance to the board and I am sure will be of even
greater benefit in the years ahead.  Both Mike and Jonathan sit on
the audit, remuneration and nomination committees with
Jonathan being the senior independent director chairing those
committees.  We are actively seeking a new non-executive director
to bring the board in line with recommended best practice.
A newly formed executive committee will be responsible for the
day to day running of the various divisions within the Group and
will liaise closely with the main board of directors in developing
the business strategy, managing risk and ensuring that we maintain
the culture and dynamism which has made Hargreaves Lansdown
successful to date.
The regulatory environment that we operate in is undergoing a
change towards a more principles based approach focused on
ensuring that investors are treated fairly. Hargreaves Lansdown
welcomes this move. Our business model and our success are built
on putting our clients first and providing the highest levels of
service. The regulatory environment is always changing and new
regulations stemming from the EU will take effect in the months
ahead. In addition, the Financial Services Authority is conducting
a Retail Distribution Review looking at the way the financial
services sector operates. We do not believe that any of these
changes will materially affect our business model.
The demographics of the country are such that people need to
save more.  As a business we are ideally situated to benefit from
any increase in savings and it is our intention to continue to
develop Vantage and our other services to improve our offering to
the private investor.  Our focus will be ‘more of the same’ in
seeking new clients with funds to invest, servicing existing clients
and encouraging them to transfer more of their assets onto our
platform.  We will continue to market strongly in this respect but
at the same time continue to keep a tight control on our
overheads to ensure that our margins are at least maintained and
hopefully improved.  We are of course reliant on investment
markets being stable in order to maintain and increase our assets
under administration but we believe that by endeavouring to offer
clients the best information and the best service at the best prices
our business will continue to grow.
Our employees are vitally important to us.  We seek to recruit and
train enthusiastic, intelligent employees and incentivise them
through a good remuneration structure to help grow the business.
At 30 June 2007 our staff numbers totalled 648.  2007 has been a
very busy time for everyone within the Group not only dealing
with the significant increases in business but also the additional
work involved with the flotation.  I would like to personally thank
everyone for all their hard work and effort.  Our success is down
to them.
We look forward to facing the exciting new challenges of life as a
listed company.
Stephen Lansdown
Chairman  
17 October 2007
Chairman’s statement
5
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 4 It is with pleasure that we present our first set of results as a
publicly quoted company.  The Group has had a successful year’s
trading. This performance is reflected in both underlying
operating profit before tax (and exceptional items) which
increased by 67 per cent from £24.3 million to £40.7 million and
revenue which increased by 34 per cent from £73.5 million to
£98.8 million. The percentage of revenue which is recurring in
nature (i.e. renewal commission, management fees and interest)
increased from 61 per cent to 65 per cent.  Operating costs  were
well controlled during the year and our underlying operating
profit margin increased from 33 per cent to 41 per cent.
Underlying diluted earnings per share have risen by 52 per cent to
6.4 pence compared with 4.2 pence for 2006. 
During the year our total assets under administration increased by
67 per cent from £6.1 billion to £10.2 billion. This includes £1.3
billion of assets also under our management, an increase of 86 per
cent on the previous year. The growth in assets under administration
and management has arisen through a combination of strong new
business volumes and market growth.  The most relevant index,
the FTSE All Share, increased during the period by 15 per cent.
As part of the flotation of the Group, shares in Hargreaves
Lansdown plc feature strongly on the Vantage platform this year
as exceptional inflows and exceptional levels of market growth. At
30 June 2007, the value of  Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares on
the Vantage platform was £805 million. 
Review
Our year started with nervousness caused by the setback in the
market in the spring of 2006.  Consequently we started our year
concentrating on gathering assets and through the media of our
newsletters, supporting clients and making suggestions.  
There were a few highlights during the early part of our year such
as the very successful launch of an innovative third party fund
which incorporated the best ideas of several eminent fund managers.
We were also pleased that the predictions that A-Day in the pensions
arena would be a one off marketing opportunity were unfounded
as we saw our pension volumes continue to grow strongly.  
The summer months always bring about client malaise as they
occupy themselves with holidays and other things conducive to
the glorious summer of 2006.  We were however encouraged
during the first part of our financial year that investors were
seeking information, responding to our advertising and exploring
our website, which was completely revamped and relaunched in
November 2006.  
In the first six months of the year we performed well in
comparison to the general market place.  Confidence was boosted
by buoyant demand for our own multi-manager funds, our
Portfolio Management Service (PMS), Self Invested Personal
Pensions (SIPPs) and some interesting investments that were
launched during the period. The second half of the year started
exceptionally well with a number of divisions reporting record or
near record volumes.    
Renewed investor confidence encouraged us to market strongly
during the third quarter and we ran an extra newsletter during
that period, a decision which turned out to be extremely
fortuitous.  Many of our competitors submitted their final ISA
season offerings just as the market fell significantly in February.  It
enabled us to hold our final ISA offering until we could see some
stability in the marketplace, and when submitted it had more
relevant comment as investor confidence was improving.  
Increased speculation regarding our float helped to generate
interest in our services and provided a boost to our advertising.
Our year closed with the prospect of marketing to many new
prospective clients obtained during our April and May advertising
campaign.  
There has been significant growth in our assets under
administration on our Vantage platform and assets under
management.  We were particularly pleased with how all sectors of
the firm coped with the exceptional levels of business and also
capitalised on the circumstances.  Assets held in Vantage at the
year end included £2.2 billion invested in PEPs, £2.8 billion
invested in ISAs, £1.4 billion invested in SIPPs and £2.7 billion
invested in our Fund and Share Account. Our multi-manager
funds reached £1 billion at the year end, including £0.5 billion
administered through Vantage. 
Group strategy
Going forward our strategy will be “more of the same” in that we
shall continue to provide first class services to our clients, respond
to market conditions and innovate in our approach to marketing
and product design.  We shall continue to talk to new and
potential clients about their investments whatever the prevailing
market conditions might be. We have not identified any new
potential businesses and we are not seeking to acquire any
businesses.  We shall continue to geographically expand our
Financial Practitioners division since we have established that
many clients would like a “local” representative.    
Our challenges for the year ahead are to continue improving our
website where we believe the future of the financial services
industry lies and further enhancing our platform through in-house
development.  We have boosted our marketing team which we
believe to be one of the most enthusiastic and talented marketing
teams in financial services.  We expect SIPPs to become an ever
more important part of our client offering but we are also
encouraged by our Portfolio Management Service as clients seek
more assistance in managing their investment portfolios.  
We have finally established from where we shall be operating in a
couple of years time which should enable us to bring all our
people together under one roof, something which we believe will
benefit the firm immensely.
Chief Executive’s Review
6
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 5 Outlook
Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of investment
management products and services to the private investor in the
UK, and 2007 saw us consolidate this position with strong growth
and excellent results. 
I am mindful that since our year end we have seen huge turmoil in
the world’s stock markets. The market is still uncertain of the
extent of the problems caused by the United States’ sub-prime
lending market. Although Hargreaves Lansdown has no direct
exposure to this area, sentiment is likely to cause nervousness in
markets and it is impossible to know when, if any recovery will be
permanent or sustainable.  
We have always been rewarded by continuing to support our
clients in turbulent times and believe we emerge from these
periods stronger and with improved market share.  A high
proportion of assets held in Vantage are within tax wrappers and
our cash option allows clients to shelter from the market without
withdrawing capital and losing potential tax benefits. 
I would also draw our shareholders’ attention to the fact that we
do have significant businesses in areas far less affected by the
market.  We have a successful corporate pensions division, a
leading SIPP product and a market leading annuity business.  We
are also seeing an increase in demand for advice from our team of
Financial Practitioners.       
The long-term fiscal and demographic trends remain positive for
our business. We are still encouraged by the flow of ideas, the
quality of our research and the number of letters we receive from
our clients praising all aspects of our service.  It is our company
policy to put clients first, a philosophy which has been the prime
reason for the firm flourishing.  We approach the new year
determined that we shall continue to grow the business and
profits whilst at the same time hoping that we return to more
benign markets, which should in time repair investor confidence.
Peter Hargreaves
Chief Executive Officer
17 October 2007
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
7
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 6 This Operating and Financial Review (‘OFR) has been prepared to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the current position
and future potential of the Group. It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.  This OFR contains forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Group’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking
statements as a result of various economic factors or the business risks, some of which are set out in this document. 
Certain figures contained in this OFR, including financial information, have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, in certain
instances the sum of the numbers in a column or a row in tables contained in this document may not conform exactly to the total figure given for
that column or row.
This OFR has been prepared with consideration to the ASB’s 2006 Reporting Statement on OFRs.
Long term strategy and key objectives 
Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of investment
management products and services to private investors in the UK.
Our flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private investor fund
supermarket and wrap platform. Vantage offers clients the
administrative convenience of being able to hold and manage their
investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds,
investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one
place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing service
and instant online access.
In addition to offering externally managed investment products,
we manage funds through our own range of multi-manager funds
and PMS, our discretionary portfolio management service.  We
also provide independent financial advisory and Stockbroking
services to private investors and advisory services to companies in
respect of group pension schemes.
In providing this breadth of services direct to the private investor,
we offer a compelling proposition for clients. 
Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms typically focus on servicing
the IFA community and are remunerated for acting as
administrator. The IFA using the platform is remunerated for
acting as distributor. We provide our fund supermarket and wrap
platform direct to the private investor, thereby performing the
role, and capturing the economics, of both the platform provider
and distributor.
We believe that this business model, together with our significant
purchasing power, enable us to retain a greater share of the annual
management charge, also known as renewal commission, from
fund providers than we would through acting solely as a fund
distributor or a fund platform provider. We strengthen our ability
to win and retain clients by discounting initial charges and passing
on a portion of the annual management charge to clients as a
loyalty bonus on many Vantage accounts.  The Hargreaves
Lansdown business model allows us to offer highly competitive
prices to our clients and achieve strong profitability.
Our aim is to increase revenue and earnings and create
shareholder value by being the leading provider of investment
management products and services to private investors in the UK.
In particular, we will focus on:
 continuing to provide high quality services to our clients; 
 giving clients the confidence and support to transact business
online;
 growing assets held in Vantage;
 increasing funds under management in our multi-manager
funds and discretionary portfolio management service;
 improving our share of annual management charges received
from fund providers;
 enhancing earnings quality;
 heightening the visibility of the Hargreaves Lansdown brand;
and
 cost control and increasing operating efficiency.
Competition and markets
The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown operates are highly
fragmented. We compete with other businesses providing
investment products and services direct to the private investor.
These include IFAs, execution-only brokers, banks, building
societies, life assurers and those fund supermarkets and wrap
platforms which are available direct to the private investor. We
believe that Vantage is the largest fund supermarket and wrap
platform for the private investor in the UK.
Our target market is the UK mass affluent population looking to
invest their savings and we are encouraged by the scope for
growth in this market.
Operating and Financial Review
8
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 7 Key Performance Indicators
We use a range of indicators across each of the divisions in order to assess performance. However, we consider the following indicators to be key
when looking at the overall performance of the Group.
Notes:
1. Based upon earnings before exceptional administrative expenses
and investment gains, and the full issued share capital
2. Operating profit before exceptional administrative expenses
divided by revenue 
3. 2007 includes £805m of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc
4. The closing values as at 29 June 2007 and 30 June 2006, sourced
from ProQuote.
5. Total value of renewal commission, management fees and interest
earned on client money, as a percentage of total revenue.
6. Percentage of assets either held in an account which generates a
fixed management fee or held an account which generates
management fees, renewal commission or interest proportionate to
the value of assets held.
7. Unique number of clients holding at least one Vantage account
(PEP, ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account) with a value
greater than £100 at the year end.
We consider a fully diluted EPS figure, which excludes the impact of
exceptional items and investment gains, to be the most appropriate
measure of performance.  This increased by 52% in the year from
4.2 pence to 6.4 pence.
The underlying operating profit margin is another key financial
indicator, increasing from 33 per cent to 41 per cent. 
The historic trend in operating margin illustrates the relationship
between revenue and costs which in turn gives an indication of the
scalability of the business model. The table shows how the margin
has grown between 2004 and 2007 because increasing revenues,
driven by higher asset values, have not necessitated an equivalent
rise in costs.
One of the most important statistics for the management is the
extent to which it has increased its total assets under administration
(AUA) during the period. This involves encouraging existing clients
to entrust us with more of their savings through the provision of
quality service, information and pricing, whilst also attracting new
clients through our various marketing initiatives. In 2007, the total
value of assets increased by 67 per cent to £10.2bn or 54 per cent
to £9.4bn if you exclude the impact of the Group’s flotation on the
London Stock Exchange which resulted in Hargreaves Lansdown
plc shares with a market value of £0.8bn as at 30 June 2007 being
added to the platform. Analysis of our assets under administration
suggests that the FTSE All-Share is the most appropriate
benchmark to use for the market and so any rise in this index can
form a useful comparison against the growth in AUA. In the year
ended 30 June 2007 this index grew by 15 per cent. The remaining
growth can largely be attributed to net new business. In 2007, net
inflows into Vantage were £2.1bn (2006: £1.1bn) excluding the
£0.8bn of Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares referred to above whilst
market gains and interest on client money increased asset values by
another £0.8bn (2006: £0.6bn).
The importance of AUA is that they produce a recurring revenue
stream made up of renewal commission, management fees and
interest. The percentage of revenue attributable to  these ‘quality
earnings’ increased from 61 per cent in 2006 to 65 per cent in
2007.  However, not all of our AUA generate recurring revenue.
For example, there are no annual charges levied on equities held in
the Vantage Fund and Share Account (including the Hargreaves
Lansdown plc shares).  For these assets the Group receives dealing
commission based upon the levels of trading activity. So when
looking at the growth in AUA, it’s relevant to consider another
indicator, the proportion of AUA which generate recurring
revenue. This has fallen from 93 per cent in 2006 to 86 per cent in
2007 due to the addition of the Hargreaves Lansdown shares into
the Vantage Fund and Share Account.  
The indicators mentioned above provide a useful measure of how
successful the Group has been in gathering assets under
administration. However, it does not give any indication of whether
this success is predominantly due to effective cross selling to existing
clients and their increasing wealth or whether the Group is
successfully adding to its client bank. This is essential in order to
replace natural client losses and expand the business. The number of
active Vantage clients acts as an indicator of how successful the
Group has been in this respect. In 2007, the number has increased
by 16 per cent, which compares favourably to a 12 per cent increase
the previous year and 3 per cent in 2005. 
2006 Increase
Underlying diluted earnings per share 
(1)
6.4p 4.2p 52%
Underlying % operating profit margin 
(2)
41% 33% 8 pts
Total Assets Under Administration 
(3)
£10.2bn £6.1bn 67%
FTSE All Share Index 
(4)
3404.14 2967.58 15%
Percentage of recurring revenue 
(5)
65% 61% 4 pts
Percentage of assets earning recurring revenue 
(6)
86% 93% -7 pts
Number of Vantage clients 
(7)
218k 188k 16%
2007
Underlying profit margin
2004 2005 2006 2007
23.2 26.0 33.0 41.2
9
Operating and Financial Review
%
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 8 Review of results
The value of total assets under administration grew by 67 per
cent during the period, from £6.1 billion to £10.2 billion. This
is largely made up of £9.1 billion of assets held within the
Vantage service, with the remainder being assets held within the
Portfolio Management Service and other nominee portfolios.
We estimate that the £3.7 billion increase in Vantage assets from
£5.4 billion to £9.1 billion can be attributed to £0.8 billion of
Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares, £2.1 billion of other net new
business, and £0.8 billion of market growth.
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves Lansdown through
its own range of multi-manager funds and PMS increased by 86
per cent, to £1.3 billion, compared to £0.7 billion as at 30 June
2006. Of these assets under management, £0.5 billion were held
within Vantage as at 30 June 2007, compared with £0.2 billion
as at 30 June 2006.    
Revenue increased by £25.3 million or 34 per cent, to £98.8
million in the year ended 30 June 2007, compared to £73.5 million
for the year ended 30 June 2006. This was principally due to an
increase in revenue of £23.6 million across the Vantage,
Discretionary and Advisory divisions resulting from increased assets
under administration and management and a full year’s revenue on
assets secured in the previous year. The 67 per cent growth in asset
values was attributable to strong new business volumes, the addition
of Hargreaves Lansdown shares to the platform (£805 million as at
30 June 2007), and market growth. The FTSE All Share index
increased 15 per cent during the year, from 2967.58 to 3404.14. 
The Group’s underlying operating profit (operating profit before
taxation and exceptional items) increased by 67 per cent to £40.7
million in 2007 compared to £24.3 million for 2006. The increase
resulted from revenue growth, driven by higher asset values, which
did not necessitate an equivalent rise in costs. The Group’s
operating margin increased from 33 per cent to 41 per cent.
The Group incurred exceptional administration expenses of £29.6
million during the year, compared to £19.6 million for the year
ended 30 June 2006. The majority of these costs comprised the
amount by which remuneration paid to certain directors of the
Company and its subsidiaries exceeded the amounts which might be
payable in future years following the agreement of a new
remuneration policy in March 2007. The remainder related to costs
incurred in relation to the flotation of the Group on the London
Stock Exchange. All of the exceptional costs for 2006 related to
director’s remuneration.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s 2007 results have been prepared for the
first time in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and the comparative figures have been restated.
The introduction of IFRS has resulted in a reduction in operating
profit of £0.7 million in 2007 and £0.4 million in 2006. Our cash
flow has not been affected by these accounting adjustments. The
most significant adjustment has been the inclusion of a fair value
charge in respect of share arrangements entered into after 7
November 2002 and still in existence at the date of transition to
IFRS on 1 July 2005. 
At 30 June
2006
£’billion
At 30 June
2007
£’billion
Assets Under Administration AUA
- Vantage
- Other
AUA Total 9.3 5.6
0.2 0.2
9.1 5.4
Assets Under Administration and Management AUM
- Portfolio Management Service PMS
- Multi-manager funds excluding PMS
AUM Total
Less: Multi-manager funds included in both AUA and AUM
Total Assets Under Administration
1.3 0.7
0.5 0.2
10.2 6.1
(0.5) (0.2)
0.8 0.5
2007
£’million
2006
£’million
Revenue 98.8 73.5
Underlying administrative expenses (58.1) (49.2)
Operating profit before exceptional administrative expenses 40.7 24.3
Exceptional administrative expenses (see below) (29.6) (19.6)
Operating profit 11.0 4.6
Non operating income - investment revenue and other gains 13.4 3.0
Profit before taxation
Taxation
Profit after taxation
24.4 7.6
(7.4) (1.6)
17.0 6.0
10
Operating and Financial Review
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 9 The Vantage division increased its revenues by £16.9 million, from
£35.2 million to £52.1 million. This resulted from strong growth
in assets under administration from £5.4 billion to £9.1 billion.
The revenue growth also reflects the impact of a full year’s income
on assets acquired during the previous year. The Vantage service
allows clients to hold assets in tax efficient wrappers such as a PEP,
ISA or SIPP, or alternatively in a Fund and Share Account.  The
highest growth in asset values was evident in the SIPP, with an
increase of 180 per cent from £0.5 billion to £1.4 billion. The
Fund and Share Account experienced high net inflows and market
growth, including the exceptional impact of Hargreaves
Lansdown plc shares, with asset values increasing by 125 per cent
from £1.2 billion to £2.7 billion. The strong growth experienced
in PEP / ISA business in 2006 continued in 2007 with assets
increasing by 36 per cent to £5 billion.
The Advisory business increased its revenues by £3.7 million, from
£8.2 million to £11.9 million. In addition to initial and renewal
commission earned on the distribution of third party investments,
this division earns initial charges and annual management fees on
assets introduced into the Group’s Portfolio Management Service
(PMS). The value of assets managed in PMS increased by 59 per
cent from £493 million to £784 million. This growth can be
attributed to high inflows, facilitated by an expanded team of
advisers, and market growth. The average number of advisers
employed during the year increased by 22, from 47 in 2006 to 69
in 2007.  
The value of Hargreaves Lansdown’s multi-manager funds
increased from £0.6 billion to £1 billion, a 67 per cent uplift. As at 
30 June 2007, 52 per cent of these were held within PMS, 46 per
cent were held within Vantage and the remainder were held
directly. The Discretionary division earns renewal commission on
underlying investments held in PMS, including the value of PMS
investments in the Group’s multi-manager funds. The multi-
manager funds charge one per cent annually on the value of funds
under management, which is recognised in the Discretionary
division net of the renewal commission paid to PMS and Vantage. 
Hargreaves Lansdown’s Third Party business comprises those
investment products which are sold by the Group but not held in
Vantage or other Group nominee accounts. These include
corporate pensions, personal pensions, annuities, third party
investment products, venture capital trusts and life assurance. The
divisions handling Third Party business increased revenues overall
by 16 per cent, from £17.1 million to £19.8 million. The increase
can be attributed to growth in corporate pensions and personal
annuities and term assurance. The growth in these areas was offset
by an expected decline of 14 per cent in the revenue from Third
Party investments. This revenue will continue to decline as more
clients choose to transfer their investments onto the Vantage
platform.   
The Stockbroking division experienced a decline in revenue of 23
per cent, from £7.5 million to £5.8 million. This can largely be
attributed to the cessation of a dealing service previously operated
for a third party.  This contract was terminated in November 2006
to enable this division to focus on servicing the higher margin,
core Vantage business. 
There were £13.4 million of investment revenue and other gains
during the year.  These can primarily be attributed to the disposal
of a number of the Group’s investments during the year which
resulted in net gains of £11.9 million. 
The Group’s reported profit before tax increased to £24.4 million,
compared to £7.6 million in the previous year.  The effective tax
rate for the Group this year was just above 30 per cent which has
resulted in a reported profit after tax for the year of £17.0 million,
compared to £6.0 million for the previous year. 
Revenue
The Group is currently organised into five core operating
divisions, based around products and services. The directors do
not believe that it is appropriate to apply segmental reporting to
these divisions for the reasons set out in note 5 to the financial
statements. However, the following analysis of revenue has been
provided as additional information to shareholders to assess the
position and potential of the Group.
Year Ended
30 June 2006
£’million
Year Ended
30 June 2007
£’million
Revenue by division
Vantage
Advisory
Discretionary
Third Party
Stockbroking
Central services
7.4 4.4
19.8 17.1
5.8 7.5
1.7 1.1
98.8 73.5
11.9 8.2
52.1 35.2
Year Ended
30 June 2006
£’million
Year Ended
30 June 2007
£’million
Underlying administrative expenses
Staff costs
Commission payable
Marketing costs
Depreciation, amortisation 
and financial costs
Other costs
5.8 4.7
0.8 1.1
7.7 7.4
58.1 49.2
9.3 7.9
34.5 28.1
Vantage 53%
Stockbroking 6%
Third party 20%
Discretionary 7%
Central services 2%
Advisory 12%
11
Operating and Financial Review - continued
Revenue Contribution 2007
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 10 Underlying administrative expenses increased by 18 per cent, from
£49.2 million to £58.1 million. The Group’s largest cost remains
staff costs, which represents 59 per cent of administrative
expenses. These costs increased by 23 per cent in line with a 21
per cent increase in average staff numbers. 
Commission payable includes the share of the renewal commission
which the Group receives on funds held in Vantage which is
rebated back to clients as a cash loyalty bonus (except with respect
to those funds held in the SIPP).  Commission payable increased
by 18 per cent, from £7.9 million to £9.3 million. This was
attributable to the growth in assets under administration in
Vantage, offset by a drop in commission payable under a contract
to provide dealing services for a third party which was terminated
in November 2006.
The Group increased its marketing spend by 23 per cent, from
£4.7 million to £5.8 million. This includes the costs of sending
information to existing and potential clients, including the
Group’s flagship publication, the Investment Times. These costs
also include an element of media advertising, postage, stationary
and the cost of corresponding with clients. The increase can be
attributed to greater media advertising to respond to a fertile
market and the high profile of the Group during its flotation.
As the majority of our platform development is undertaken 
in-house, the capital expenditure of the business remains fairly
low.  The charge for depreciation, amortisation and financial costs
for the year were not significant, decreasing from £1.1 million to
£0.8 million. 
Other administrative costs and overheads include items such as
building and utility costs, dealing costs, irrecoverable VAT,
compliance costs, insurance, professional services, computer
maintenance and external administration charges. These were
controlled during the period, increasing by just 4 per cent from
£7.4 million to £7.7 million.
Non operating income 
Investment revenues fell from £2.9 million to £1.4 million and the
2007 figure is predominantly made up of interest receivable on the
Group’s cash balances. The reduction in revenue in 2007 can be
largely attributed to a special dividend of £1.7 million received in
2006 from the London Stock Exchange. The Group disposed of
the majority of its investments during the year, including its
holdings in EMX Company Limited and the London Stock
Exchange plc. This resulted in net gains in 2007 of £11.9 million,
with none arising in 2006.
Taxation
Taxation increased from £1.6 million to £7.4 million. The higher
charge can be attributed to an increase in pre-tax profits and an
increase in the effective tax rate from 21 per cent to just above 30
per cent. The reduced rate in 2006 was largely the result of a
dividend receipt of £1.9 million on which no tax was payable and 
deductions in relation to share option benefits.  In the year ended
30 June 2007, there was no such dividend and deductions in
relation to share option benefits were offset by float costs which
were not allowable for tax purposes.  
Earnings per share (EPS)
The basic diluted EPS increased from 1.3 pence to 3.6 pence.
However the directors consider the most relevant EPS calculation
to be the underlying diluted earnings per share. This is calculated
as the earnings for the year, adjusted to exclude the net effect of
exceptional administration expenses and investment gains, divided
by the total number of shares in issue, including those held by the
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT). Underlying diluted EPS increased
by 52 per cent, from 4.2 pence to 6.4 pence. As at 30 June 2007,
the EBT held sufficient shares to satisfy all outstanding share
options granted under the employee share schemes.  
Dividend
A dividend of 3.0 pence per share was proposed on 26 April 2007
and paid on 21 May 2007 to shareholders on the register as at 1
May 2007. This was a 66 per cent increase on total dividend
payments of 1.81 pence made in 2006. As previously advised prior
to the flotation, there will be no final dividend in respect of the
financial year ended 30 June 2007. An arrangement exists under
which the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust (the
“EBT”) has agreed to waive all dividends.
Cash flow and capital expenditure
The Group was highly cash generative during the year with the
significant outgoings from underlying profits being exceptional
director’s remuneration and dividends. These were offset to some
extent by the proceeds from the disposal of a high proportion of
the Group’s investments and the sale of Company shares by the
EBT. The Group’s own cash balances increased from £9.4 million
to £32.9 million during the year. This includes £12.4 million of
cash held within the EBT. Capital expenditure remained relatively
low, increasing from £0.8 million to £1.5 million. 
Net assets, capital requirement and 
treasury policy 
Group net assets increased from £17.5 million to £44.5 million.
The Group has four subsidiary companies which are authorised
and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. These firms
maintain capital resources at a level which satisfies both their
regulatory capital requirements as well as their working capital
requirements. As at 30 June 2007, the aggregated regulatory
capital requirement across the four regulated subsidiary companies
was approximately £9 million compared to capital resources of
approximately £27 million, which resulted in a surplus of
approximately £18 million.
The Group has no borrowings and deposits its liquid funds with
selected financial institutions which maintain a long term credit
rating of AA- or better. The Group actively maintains cash
balances on short term deposit to ensure that it has sufficient
available funds for operations. This policy is designed to ensure
that the Group takes no material credit risk. The Group is not
exposed to significant foreign exchange translation or transaction
risk. 
12
Operating and Financial Review - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 11 Future outlook  
In his report, Peter Hargreaves outlines the potential impact of
recent market volatility on the future performance of the Group. In
the longer term, a combination of demographic and fiscal factors,
including an ageing and increasingly wealthy population, pressure
on state pension provision, pension reforms and a growing
awareness of the need to save for retirement, are likely to underpin
growing demand for investment and pension products. There
appears to be a growing opinion that the most convenient method
for individuals to hold their investments is within a wrap service and
as a result, many believe that the use of wrap platforms, such as
Vantage, is set to increase.  
We see the growth in internet and broadband services as being of
major importance to the investment industry and believe that the
wealth of information available online may encourage more
individuals to invest on an execution-only basis.  If this were to
happen, Vantage would be well positioned to benefit, as the major
direct-to-private-investor wrap service in the marketplace. 
There are record numbers of people approaching retirement in the
UK and we believe that the ease of shopping around on the web will
encourage more people to look for the best deal when purchasing an
annuity. As life events often create the need for financial advice, high
numbers of people retiring may also prompt growth in the market
for those seeking help with their finances. This could potentially
benefit our expanded team of financial practitioners, our Portfolio
Management Service and our multi-manager funds.  
At any point in time, our ability to gather assets and attract clients
will depend to some extent upon the prevailing market conditions
but we believe that we are well-positioned to capitalise on the
growth opportunities available in view of our client-focused
approach, our breadth of high quality services specific to the private
investor, our marketing expertise and our entrepreneurial culture.
Subject to the right market conditions, we believe that the
Hargreaves Lansdown business model can continue to provide
competitive prices for clients and attractive returns for shareholders
in the future. 
Risks and uncertainties  
There are a number of potential risks to the Group which could
hinder the successful implementation of our strategy and have a
material impact on our long term performance. These arise from
internal or external events, acts or omissions which could potentially
pose a threat to the future success and survival of the Group. The
Board and senior management of Hargreaves Lansdown are
proactive in identifying, assessing and managing risk. 
The risk factors mentioned below do not purport to be exhaustive
as there may be additional risks that the Group has not yet
identified or has deemed to be immaterial that could have a material
adverse effect on the business. 
Industry Risks
Risk Type
Fluctuations in the capital markets
Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely
affect trading activity and/or the value of the
Group’s assets under administration or
management, from which we derive revenues.
 Focus on recurring revenue streams over the
more volatile transaction-based alternative.
 High proportion of assets under
administration in tax wrappers so clients less
likely to withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
 Cash option enables clients to shelter from
market volatility.
Changing markets and increased competition
The Group operates in a highly competitive
environment with developing demographic
trends and our continued profitability depends
on our ability to respond to these pressures and
trends. 
 Strong market position with pricing power. 
 Full control over scaleable and flexible
platform.
 Experienced management team with a strong
track record of innovation and responsiveness
to the market.
 Organisational structure and culture promotes
responsiveness.
 Client focused with a loyal customer base.
 Younger clients attracted by SIPP offering.
Evolving technology
Regulatory risk
The Group’s technology could become obsolete
if we are unable to develop and enhance our
systems to accommodate changing preferences,
new products and the emergence of new
industry standards.  
 Track record of successful development
 High awareness and sponsorship of the
importance of technology at Board level.
 Substantial development team in place. 
The Group may be materially adversely affected
as a result of new or revised legislation or
regulations or by changes in the interpretation
or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. 
 Business model and culture already geared
towards FSA principle of treating clients fairly.
 Financial strength of the organisation provides
comfort should the capital resource
requirement be increased.
Changes in taxation law
Changes made to tax legislation could reduce
the attractiveness of some of the Group’s
investment products such as PEPs, ISAs and
SIPPs.
 The government is more likely to encourage
savings in order to plan for an ageing
population, which is currently under-provided
for. 
Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
13
Operating and Financial Review - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 12 Operational  Risks
Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Damage to the Group’s reputation
There is a risk of reputational damage through
the actions of unassociated third parties such as
the set-up of a copycat website to fraudulently
obtain funds from our clients.
 Clients educated to improve awareness of
potential ‘boiler room’ and other online
scams.
 Hargreaves Lansdown security procedures
are well communicated to clients so they are
more likely to question anything out of the
ordinary.
Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in
respect of the Group’s software or
information technology systems
Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or
breakdowns in the Group’s software or
information technology systems could
negatively impact customer confidence. It could
also materially breach contracts we have with
our customers and data protection laws, which
could render us liable to disciplinary action by
governmental and regulatory authorities, as well
as to claims by our clients.
 High level of resilience built into daily
operations.
 IT performance, scalability and security are
deemed top priorities by the Board.
 Large, experienced in-house team of IT
professionals and established name suppliers.
 Internal procedures marked against industry
best practice.   
Business continuity
In addition to the failure of IT systems, there is
a risk of disruption to the business as a result of
power failure, fire, flood, acts of terrorism, re-
location problems and the like.
 Critical applications and infrastructure
mirrored across primary and secondary sites.
 Business Continuity Plan produced in line
with best practice methodologies.
Damage to the Group’s reputation
There is a risk of reputational damage including
as a result of employee misconduct, failure to
manage inside information or conflicts of
interest, fraud or improper practice. 
 High level of internal controls including
checks on new staff.
 Well trained staff.
 Strong compliance culture.
Key personnel risk 
The loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel
could have a material adverse effect on the
Group’s business, results of operations or
financial condition.
 Lock up on shares held of up to four years on
directors and senior management.
 SAYE schemes in operation to incentivise
staff and encourage retention.  
 Success of the Group should attract high
calibre candidates.
 Succession planning encouraged throughout
Group via management and staff objectives.   
Litigation or claims made against the Group
The Group’s business entails the risk of liability
related to litigation from clients or third parties
and actions taken by regulatory agencies. This
risk is compounded by the loss of some hard
copy records in 2005, as disclosed in the pre-
flotation prospectus. There can be no assurance
that a claim or claims will be covered by
insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the
limits of available insurance coverage, or that
any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its
obligations to provide the Group with coverage. 
 High levels of PI cover. 
 Comprehensive internal review procedures
for marketing literature.
Performance of in-house managed funds
If the investment performance of the
Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager funds
were to be poor relative to the market or in
absolute terms, the Group would be vulnerable
to redemption/cancellation of units by
investors in those collective investment funds
and a consequential reduction in revenues
received from such activities.
 Only manage funds of funds, divested equity
management to focus on core strength.
 Fund analysis focuses on ‘stock selection’
skills of manager rather than basic
performance analysis.
 Multi-manager funds well diversified at the
underlying fund level as well as by number of
funds.
 Well established and proven investment
process. 
 Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure
to a broad range of underlying investments.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector
specific poor performance than specialised or
focused funds.
Reliance on third parties 
Any regulatory breach or service failure on the
part of an outsourced service provider could
expose the Group to the risk of regulatory
sanctions and reputational damage.
 Due diligence forms part of the selection
process for key suppliers.
 Ongoing review by our internal audit team of
key business partners.
14
Operating and Financial Review - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 13 Operations
IT
We continue to run the vast majority of our administration and
systems development in-house rather than outsourcing to third
parties. In particular, we maintain full control of the Vantage
platform which is fundamental in the administration of both
Vantage and the Portfolio Management Service. The notable
exception is the administration of our multi-manager funds which
is currently outsourced.  We believe that having control of our
own platform gives us the ability to control service levels and react
quickly to changing markets and the needs of our clients. Those
areas of our business which are outsourced are kept under close
review to ensure they continue to meet our standards.
This year saw us make substantial improvements to both our
platform and its underlying infrastructure. In November 2006, we
launched a revamped version of our website which is both easier
to use and offers a broader range of online services and
information. We also upgraded a number of servers, improved our
data storage capabilities and replaced key network components,
without any significant disruption to the business. There have
been a number of important appointments in the management of
IT this year in respect of development, infrastructure and IT
security. It is our objective to achieve continuous improvement in
the performance, reliability and resilience of our systems.
Regulation
Hargreaves Lansdown is regulated by the Financial Services
Authority (FSA) to conduct investment business. The FSA are
currently working towards a more principles based approach to
regulation and they are actively reducing the number of specific
rules that regulated firms need to comply with.  At the same time,
new regulations stemming from the EU will introduce some
additional specific regulatory obligations in the future. The
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) will take
effect on 1 November 2007.  Whilst this will require us to amend
a number of our processes, we do not anticipate that it will have a
material or adverse effect on our business model. The FSA are also
completing a Retail Distribution Review with a view to improving
the retail financial services marketplace. We are committed to
treating our clients fairly and complying with our regulatory
obligations, and believe our business model is already well aligned
with the initial recommendations made by the FSA’s Retail
Distribution Review. 
With effect from 1 January 2007, the Group’s regulated
Companies have been subject to the transitional provisions of the
Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), a European Directive
designed to introduce a more risk-based approach to the
maintenance of regulatory capital. Experience thus far indicates
that the impact of these provisions on Hargreaves Lansdown is
not significant and has not resulted in a material increase in our
capital requirement. We do not expect this to change following
full implementation of the CRD. 
Property
It is our aim to relocate all staff to a single site within the next few
years to replace the four sites we currently occupy. The proposed
site would afford us more than double our current amount of
office space, giving us room for further expansion. We believe that
a single site would be extremely beneficial for us in terms of
efficiency gains, improving communication and maintaining the
culture which has been a key element in the Group’s success to
date.  
Resources
Our employees are vital to the Group’s continuing success. We
have sought to recruit, train and retain employees of the highest
calibre and this has been instrumental in our success. The
retention of good staff will continue to be critical to our future
success and work is taking place in a number of areas to ensure
that our staff continue to choose to develop their careers at
Hargreaves Lansdown. We believe that our raised profile as a
result of the flotation will assist us further in attracting the best
candidates both locally and from further afield. 
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters
affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting
the performance of the Group.  This is achieved through formal
and informal meetings, and the Group intranet.  Employee
representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters
affecting their current and future interests.  
Employees are encouraged to identify, and to become involved
with, the financial performance of the Group. The Group has a
number of employee share schemes, including a SAYE which has
been running successfully since its inception in 1999. The latest
options were granted on 6 March 2007 to 236 employees. The
scheme is open to all employees who have completed two years of
service.  Another scheme available to staff is the recently
implemented Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which granted its first
awards during November 2006.  A further discretionary Option
Scheme exists under which a number of senior employees have
been granted options.  With the Company’s shares now trading
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, employees
are able to quantify the value of their equity interests and this has
increased the motivational impact of these schemes. The Board
believes that the use of share schemes in the future will continue
to incentivise staff and help align their interests with those of other
shareholders.  Many employees also receive an annual bonus
related to the overall profitability of the Group.
In addition to a motivating reward structure, we recognise the
importance of providing adequate training for staff to enable them
to provide the best possible levels of service. We are constantly
improving our provisions for staff training, through a mixture of
external and in-house courses. The training needs of individuals
are discussed with them during regular appraisals. It’s also
through these one-to-one meetings we aim to engage with staff
and understand their wider views about the Group and their
career progression, as well as what motivates them.
15
Operating and Financial Review - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 14 Corporate social responsibility
As part of their move toward a more principles based approach to
regulation, the FSA are increasingly stressing the need for firms to
have systems and controls in place to ensure that clients are
treated fairly. We applaud this initiative. The fair treatment of our
clients is of paramount importance to us. We have always been
fully committed to treating our clients fairly and will ensure that
this remains central to our culture.  
We appreciate that alongside providing our clients with the best
service and producing profits for our shareholders, we can also
take sensible steps to reduce the impact of our business on the
environment. During the year we maintained our arrangements
for the shredding and recycling of confidential waste. We also have
arrangements in place for the collection of recyclable waste such as
printer toner cartridges. 
Wherever possible, redundant IT equipment is data cleaned and
sent to specialist third parties for refurbishment before being
donated to deserving causes.  In 2007 this included approximately
130 base units and 30 other items such as printers and monitors.
We have continued to work towards ensuring future compliance
with regulations relating to the Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment Directive, which came into effect on 1 January 2007.
In many respects, our objective of reducing waste and minimising
the environmental impact of our business is aligned with our
objectives of reducing costs and improving efficiency. It is our aim
to deal with clients and other businesses electronically wherever
possible and we have invested heavily in providing a user friendly,
comprehensive website and automated links to banks and fund
providers. Our investment in this area will continue and the
benefits will grow as more people and businesses choose to
transact business and receive information online.  
Business travel is another area which impacts both our costs and
the environment.  We do not provide company cars as standard to
managers or to our network of advisers.  At 30 June 2007 we had
just 1 company car.  Where cars are used for travel, car-sharing is
encouraged through the availability of additional mileage expenses
for staff who carry passengers rather than drive to appointments
separately. In having a network of advisers across the UK and
targeting markets local to them, we minimise both the costs and
environmental impact of business travel. 
We appreciate that there is more we could do to reduce the
impact of our business on the environment and we aim to improve
on the positive steps we have already taken and ensure that social,
environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in
our future decision making. The proposed move to newly built
premises in 2009 will provide an opportunity to promote more
efficient use of energy and encourage practices which reduce
energy consumption, such as the installation of energy efficient
lighting. The purchase and hosting of IT equipment is another
area in which we intend to increasingly look at power
consumption as a factor in our decision making.
We also intend to assist clients who wish to invest in a socially
responsible manner by producing a guide on ethical,
environmentally friendly and other socially responsible
investments.
Critical accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted by Hargreaves Lansdown have
been consistently applied throughout the years and are set out in
note 1 to the financial statements. The only significant change this
year is our transition to International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) for our 2007 results and the restatement of
comparatives. This is explained further in note 35 to the financial
statements.
The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with
these policies has required management to make a number of
estimates, assumptions and judgements. Further details on key
sources of judgements and estimation uncertainty are provided in
note 3 to the financial statements. 
Martin Mulligan
Group Finance Director
17 October 2007
16
Operating and Financial Review - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 15 The following directors have served during 
the year:  
Non-Executive Directors: 
Jonathan Bloomer – Senior non-executive director (aged 53)
Jonathan Bloomer became a non-executive director of the
Company in September 2006.  Jonathan is currently a partner in
Cerberus European Capital Advisers LLP, executive Chairman of
Lucida plc and Chairman of Scottish RE Group Limited.
Previously, Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential plc.  He
also spent twenty years in practice with Arthur Andersen LLP.
Jonathan was Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FSA. His
previous positions also include board membership of the
Association of British Insurers, Geneva Association (International
Association for the Study of Insurance Economics) and Railtrack
plc.
Michael Evans – Non-executive director (aged 46)
Michael Evans became a non-executive director of the Company
in September 2006. Michael is a qualified actuary with 24 years'
industry experience.  He is a non-executive director of the retail
pooled funds board of ING Real Estate Investment Management
and is director of life insurance at Pinsent Masons. Michael was
formerly Chief Operating Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
Executive Directors:
Stephen Lansdown FCA, FSI – Chairman (aged 55)
Stephen Lansdown co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981.
Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1975 and
specialised in taxation with Touche Ross & Co.  Stephen is also
Chairman of Bristol City Football Club. Prior to its acquisition by
Euroclear plc, Stephen was a non-executive director of EMX
Company Ltd.   Stephen is a Fellow of the Securities &
Investment Institute.
Peter Hargreaves FCA, MSI – Chief Executive (aged 60)
Peter Hargreaves co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981.
Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant and worked for
a predecessor of KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread plc. Peter
is a non-executive director of ITM Power plc and was recently
appointed as non-executive Chairman of ITM Power plc effective
from 1 January 2008.   Peter is a Member of the Securities &
Investment Institute.
Martin Mulligan FCA, FSI – Group Finance Director (aged 36)
Martin Mulligan joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1996.  He
joined the board of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management in
2000 and the Board in 2001. Prior to joining Hargreaves
Lansdown, Martin qualified as a Chartered Accountant.  He is a
Fellow of the Securities & Investment Institute and has an MBA
from the University of Liverpool.  
Former Executive Directors who were
directors of the Company until 28 February
2007 (now members of the Executive
Committee):
Mary Theresa Barry – Group Marketing Director (aged 49)
Theresa graduated with a 2:1 in Politics from the University of
Bristol. She joined Hargreaves Lansdown as the first full-time
employee in 1982.   Theresa has also worked in marketing at
Abbey Unit Trust Managers Limited in the City of London. 
Nigel Bence – Group Compliance Director (aged 36)
Nigel graduated with a First from Bristol Polytechnic (now the
University of the West of England) with a BA Honours Degree in
Financial Services.    He joined the compliance department of
Hargreaves Lansdown in 1992.  In 2001, he was appointed to the
role of Group Compliance Director. 
Andrew Christian – Managing Director, Vantage and Broking
Operations (aged 39)
Andrew graduated from Nottingham Polytechnic (now
Nottingham Trent University) with a 2:1 in Law.  He joined
Hargreaves Lansdown in 1991, and worked initially on the
investment helpdesk before moving to Hargreaves Lansdown
Stockbrokers in 1992 as a dealer.  Andrew was appointed director
of Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in 1998. He took over
responsibility for all Vantage operations in 2003. 
Adam Norris – Managing Director, Advisory Business (aged 36)
Adam graduated as a BEng (bachelor of engineering) and also
holds Financial Planning Certificate 1, 2, and 3. Having first
worked in practice as an IFA, Adam joined Hargreaves Lansdown
in 1998 to set up Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct.  His
responsibilities include corporate pensions and the Financial
Practitioner advisory business. 
Tracey Taylor FCCA, MSI – Group Accounting Director (aged
35)
Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999 from Lloyds TSB
Bank plc.  Previously she worked in public practice where she
qualified as an accountant in 1992.  Her responsibilities include
Group finance, client accounting and human resources. In 2001,
Tracey was appointed to the role of Company Secretary and in
2006 was appointed to the role of Group Accounting Director.
Tracey holds an MSc in Finance and is also a Member of the
Securities & Investment Institute (MSI).
Management Team 
17
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 16 Corporate Governance
18
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 17 The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the
Group, together with the financial statements and auditors'
report, for the year ended 30 June 2007. 
Principal Group activities
Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent company of a group of
companies which offers a range of investment products,
investment services, financial planning and advice.  Hargreaves
Lansdown has established a reputation for providing high quality
service and value-for-money products to private investors, whether
they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an
advisory or discretionary service. 
The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private
investor fund supermarket and wrap platform.  Vantage offers
clients the administrative convenience of being able to hold and
manage their investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities,
bonds, investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle,
in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing
service and instant online access.
The Group also provides independent financial advisory and
stockbroking services to private investors and advisory services to
companies in respect of group pension schemes. 
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year are
listed in note 16 to the financial statements.  The principal trading
subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited,
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited, Hargreaves
Lansdown Fund Managers Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown
Pensions Direct Limited, are authorised and regulated by the
Financial Services Authority.
Business review
A full review of the Group’s business activities and future outlook
are set out in the Operating and Financial Review and the
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s reports.   Principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Group are described in the Operating and
Financial Review, and financial risk management information is
shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date
other than the exercise of share options and associated transfer of
shares from the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT as described in note
33 to the financial statements.
Group results and Company dividends
Operating profit before exceptional items for the year ended 30
June 2007 was £40.7million (2006: £24.3 million) and £11.0
million after exceptional items (2006: £4.6 million).  The Group
profit after taxation for the year ended 30 June 2007 was £17.0
million (2006: £6.0 million).  
Dividends are shown in note 11 to the financial statements.  As
indicated in the Prospectus published prior to the Company’s
admission to the main market of the London Stock Exchange in
May 2007 (“Admission”), the directors have not recommended
payment of a final dividend (2006: 0.36p), and have proposed 
that the interim dividend of 3.0p (2006: 1.45p) paid on 21 May
2007, is the final dividend in respect of the year.  The first
dividend payable following Admission is scheduled for March
2008 following the publication of the interim results to the 31
December 2007.
Capital Structure
The Company’s shares were admitted to the official list of the UK
Listing Authority and to unconditional trading on the main
market of the London Stock Exchange on 18 May 2007. The
Company’s authorised and issued share capital at 30 June 2007
together with details of movements in share capital during the
year, are shown in note 22. 
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.  Save as agreed
at the general meeting of the shareholders, the ordinary shares
have pre-emption rights in respect of any future issues of ordinary
shares to the extent conferred by Section 89 of the Companies
Act.  
No unissued share or loan capital of the Company is under option
or agreed, conditionally or unconditionally, to be put under
option.  The Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT), a
subsidiary of the Company, holds Ordinary Shares for the EBT for
the exercise of options granted under the employee share schemes.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
The directors of the Company and directors of the subsidiary
companies have given undertakings not to offer, sell or contract to
sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of ordinary shares (directly or
indirectly) which were held on Admission and not sold as part of
the flotation, other than in certain limited circumstances.  The
restrictions apply as follows:
(i) Prior to the announcement of the Group’s results (whether by
way of preliminary announcement or otherwise) (a ‘‘Results
Announcement’’) for the financial year of the Company
ending on 30 June 2008, to all of their Ordinary Shares held
immediately following Admission (‘‘Locked-in Shares’’);
(ii) Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of
the Company ending on 30 June 2008 but prior to the
Results Announcement for the financial year of the Company
ending on 30 June 2009, to such number of Shares as is equal
to 75 per cent. of the total number of Locked-in Shares;
(iii)Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of
the Company ending on 30 June 2009 but prior to the
Results Announcement for the financial year of the Company
ending on 30 June 2010, to such number of Shares as is equal
to 50 per cent. of the total number of Locked-in Shares; and
(iv)Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of
the Company ending on 30 June 2010 but prior to the
Results Announcement for the financial year of the Company
ending on 30 June 2011, to such number of Shares as is equal
to 25 per cent. of the total number of Locked-in Shares.  
The restrictions set out above shall cease to apply in their entirety
following the Results Announcement for the financial year of the
Company ending on 30 June 2011.
Directors’ Report
19
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 18 Reporting
Shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are listed on the main market
of the London Stock Exchange and as such the Company is
required to comply with its disclosure requirements.
Retirement and re-election of directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association at each
annual general meeting one third of the directors (or the number
nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third if their number is not an
integral multiple of three) must retire ‘by rotation’. Those retiring
shall include any director who wishes to retire and not offer
himself for re-election and any further director to retire by
rotation shall be those of the other directors who have been in
office for more than three years or more since their appointment
or last re-appointment.  Any director appointed since the last
annual general meeting shall be excluded from the above ‘rotation 
provisions’ and a separate resolution to reappoint such a director
must be proposed.   
Stephen Lansdown and Peter Hargreaves retire by rotation at the
next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.  Biographical details of the directors proposed for
election and for re-election are shown on page 17.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 14 September 2007, the Company has not been notified of
any shareholdings amounting to more than 3 per cent of the
issued share capital of the Company other than the directors’
interests which are set out further below and the following EBT
shareholding:  
Interested party
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Limited
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Limited
18 May 2007 18,294,585 3.86%
14 September 2007 12,113,960 2.55%
Date of notification Number of Shares Percentage held at date of notification
20
Directors’ Report - continued
Directors
The directors, who served throughout the year except as noted,
were as follows:
Non-Executive Directors:
Jonathan Bloomer (Senior independent non-executive director) -
appointed 18 September 2006
Michael Evans - appointed 1 September 2006
Executive Directors:
Peter Hargreaves (Chief Executive Officer)
Stephen Lansdown (Chairman)
Martin Mulligan (Group Finance Director)
Jonathan Bloomer, Michael Evans and Stephen Lansdown are
members of the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and
Nomination Committee.  Jonathan Bloomer acts as Chairman of
these Committees.
In addition, the following also served as executive directors of the
Company for part of the year.  The main Board membership was
changed in preparation for admission to trading on the main
market of the London Stock Exchange.  Accordingly on 28
February 2007 the following directors resigned from the Board of
Hargreaves Lansdown plc although they continue to serve on the
Executive Committee and on the Boards of certain subsidiary
companies.
Former Executive Directors:
Theresa Barry
Nigel Bence
Andrew Christian
Adam Norris
Tracey Taylor
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 19 Directors’ Interests
The directors who held office at 30 June 2007 had the
following interests (including beneficial interests) in the
shares of the Company.  Changes in the interests of
directors between 30 June 2007 and the date of this
report are also shown below:
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Bloomer
Michael Evans 
- < 0.01% 15,625 < 0.01% 15,625
Peter Hargreaves
Stephen Lansdown
Martin Mulligan
203,623,475 32.20% 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606
176,081,125 27.84% 132,060,843 27.84% 132,060,843
2,613,600 0.38% 1,824,900 0.49% 2,330,933
- < 0.01% 15,625 < 0.01% 15,625
Number of
Ordinary
Shares at 30
June 2006
(*)
Percentage of
the issued
Ordinary
Share Capital
at 30 June
2007
Number of
Ordinary
Shares at 30
June 2007
Percentage of
the issued
Ordinary
Share Capital
at the date of
this report
Number of
Ordinary
Shares at the
date of this
report
Current Executive Directors
Theresa Barry
Nigel Bence
Andrew Christian
17,894,525 2.86% 13,587,131 2.86% 13,587,131
1,050,775 0.17% 791,725 0.17% 791,725
2,704,350 1.16% 5,490,650 1.16% 5,490,650
Adam Norris
Tracey Taylor
15,323,000 3.05% 14,458,675 3.06% 14,494,508
283,800 0.19% 889,350 0.19% 889,350
Total 419,574,650 67.86% 321,852,130 67.97% 322,393,996
Former Executive Directors
* Adjusted for the effect of the share reorganisation on 10 April
2007 as described in note 22 to the financial statements.
The above figures are exclusive of any interests under Share
Options. Details of Share Options which have been granted to
directors as at the date of this report pursuant to employee share
schemes are set out in the directors’ remuneration report.
During the period covered by this report, no director had any
material interest in a contract to which the Company or any of its
subsidiary undertakings was a party, requiring disclosure pursuant
to section 317 Companies Act 1985 except in respect of the rental
of the head office premises at Kendal House as disclosed in note
34 to the financial statements.
Employment policies
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given
full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
applicant concerned.  In the event of members of staff becoming
disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment
with the Group continues and that appropriate training is
arranged.  It is the policy of the Group that the training, career
development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as
possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Health and welfare
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing a safe and
healthy environment in which its employees can work. Health and
Safety consultants were engaged during the year to carry out a full
review of our health and safety policy and procedures, and have
been retained on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are
maintained. The review of our policy is nearing completion, risk
assessments have been improved and updated training for
employees with health and safety responsibilities is in the course of
being completed.
Equality and diversity
Hargreaves Lansdown recognises, respects and values difference
and diversity.  We are an equal opportunities employer and it is
our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are
treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital
status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.  The
Group seeks to ensure all employees and applicants to its
businesses are given equal opportunity in all aspects of
employment to ensure that the Group's businesses attract, retain
and promote the best available talent. All the businesses work to
embed these principles in all aspects of their management practices
and to ensure that this is evident to employees in their day-to-day
work.
Further employment information is provided in the Operating and
Financial Review.
21
Directors’ Report - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 20 Supplier payment policy
The Company’s policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to
settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of
each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the
terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.  Trade
creditors of the Group at 30 June 2007 were equivalent to 23
(2006 - 33) days’ purchases, based on the average daily amount
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Client service
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that we treat our clients
fairly in every aspect of our dealings with them and to provide a
first class service at all times. 
The fair treatment of our clients is central to our corporate culture
and we aim to provide the best information, the best service and
the best prices to our clients. We strive to provide clear
information to all our clients and keep them appropriately
informed at all times whilst they remain a client of Hargreaves
Lansdown. We aim to ensure that our services and investment
performance meet our clients’ expectations.  We continually strive
to improve our services to ensure they are designed and targeted
appropriately and that any advice we provide is suitable for our
clients. We will never impose unreasonable barriers to prevent
clients from switching their investments or make a complaint.
If clients ever feel the need to complain, our complaints handling
team carefully investigate our client’s complaint and endeavour to
provide them with a fair resolution. We benchmark our
performance in treating clients fairly against statistics published
annually by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the industry.
The results for our last financial year compared against the last
figures published by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves
Lansdown is achieving exceptionally good results in treating our
clients fairly when they complain. 
Special business
Resolutions are to be proposed as special business at the Annual
General Meeting on 30 November 2007 to enable the directors to
allot unissued shares and, subject to the limits therein contained,
to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in
proportion to their shareholdings. The resolution enabling
directors to allot unissued shares will be limited to the allotment
of shares up to a maximum nominal amount of £202,725.50,
which represents the difference between the company’s authorised
and issued share capital at 17 October 2007. The directors do not
have any present intention of exercising such authority and the
authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the
passing of the proposed resolution.  The resolution enabling the
directors to allot shares other than to existing shareholders in
proportion to their shareholdings is limited to the allotment of
shares up to a maximum nominal value of £94,863.72, which
represents 5% of the total ordinary share capital in issue as at 17
October 2007. Both of these resolutions seek authorities which
are in accordance with the current guidelines issued by the
Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and
the National Association of Pension Funds.
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of
this annual report confirms that:
 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company's auditors are unaware;
and
 the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have
taken as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in
accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act
1985. 
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to
continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board,
Tracey Taylor
Company Secretary
17 October 2007
22
Directors’ Report - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 21 In this section of our Annual Report and Accounts, we explain the
key elements of the Group's corporate governance structure. 
The directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc are committed to high
standards of corporate governance practices and the Company is
committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in
2003 by the Financial Reporting Council (‘the Code’) for which
the Board is accountable to shareholders. 
Statement of compliance with the Combined
Code
From the period since Admission to the main market of the
London Stock Exchange (“Admission”) to 30 June 2007,
Hargreaves Lansdown plc has applied the principles and complied
with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance with the following three exceptions:
1. Composition of the Board
The Board has five directors of which two are independent non-
executive directors.  A re-balancing of the Board will take place
when a suitable additional non-executive director is identified to
meet the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies that at least
half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise
independent non-executive directors. 
It is the policy of the Company to promote senior executives to
the Board from within the operating subsidiaries.  In the past this
has resulted in a large number of executive directors and so, as a
step towards achieving compliance with the Combined Code,
prior to Admission five of the former executive directors resigned
from the Board of the Company but they continue to serve as
members of the Executive Committee and as directors for several
of the main trading subsidiaries.
2. Constitution of Remuneration and Audit
Committee 
The Code requires that Audit and Remuneration committee
members should be independent non-executive directors and that
they should be in the majority on the Nomination committee.
Stephen Lansdown is an executive director and so is not
independent.  It is recognised that this does not meet Code
requirements and it is the intention that upon appointment of a
third non-executive director referred to above, the new non-
executive will replace Stephen Lansdown as a member of the
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees. 
3. Independence of the Chairman on appointment
The Chairman does not meet the independence criteria set out in
the Code since he is an executive director of the Company.
Details of how Hargreaves Lansdown complied with the Code are
summarised in this statement.
Statement about applying the principles of the Code
The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the
Code, including both the main principles and the supporting
principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting
principles have been applied is set out below and in the directors’
remuneration report and Audit Committee report.
Directors
Board of directors
As at 30 June 2007, the Board of Hargreaves Lansdown
comprised of 3 executive members and 2 non-executive directors.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to Board
deliberations.  The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the
balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for
the requirements of the business.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Peter Hargreaves, has executive
responsibilities for the operations, results and strategic
development of the Group. Clear divisions of accountability and
responsibility exist and operate effectively for these positions.
The Board requires all non-executive directors to be independent
in their judgement and free from any business or other
relationship that could interfere with the exercise of objective
judgement. The non-executive directors do not participate in any
of the Groups share option or other incentive schemes.
Biographies for the board of directors, including details of any
other significant directorships or appointments, are set out on
page 17.
Role of the Board
The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and
reviews operating, financial and risk performance. It is the
decision-making body for all other matters deemed material to the
Group in strategic, financial and reputational terms. The non-
executive directors constructively challenge the management team
and supplement the executive directors' management expertise
with a diversity of business skills and experience. 
The Board and its Committees meet regularly.  Formal minutes or
reports of each of these meetings are circulated to all directors. 
Corporate Governance Statement
23
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 22 The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive
Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for
decision by the full Board.  There is a formal schedule of those
matters reserved to the Board, which includes:
 approval of corporate strategies and objectives; 
 approval of interim and final financial results and payment of 
dividends; 
 the appointment of directors; 
 approval of major capital expenditure; 
 approval of annual budgets and medium term plans; 
 approval of significant changes in the Group structure and 
product range. 
The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the
Group to the Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the
executive directors and senior executives. The Group Chief
Executive and executive directors of the Group are responsible to
the Board for developing strategy and the profitability and overall
performance of the Group. 
Board responsibilities
The Board meets a minimum of four times each financial year to
discuss matters such as current performance, long term planning,
material capital commitments and risk management.  During the
intervening months, meetings of the Executive Committee are
held and minutes from the meeting are circulated to the Board.
All directors may take independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense in conducting their duties. 
For all new directors the Chairman is responsible for preparing
and implementing a personalised induction programme including
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a
director of the Company.  Every director has access to appropriate
training as required subsequent to appointment.  The need for
director training is regularly assessed. 
The Chairman has conducted interviews with each director and
assessed their individual performance. Non-executive directors
have assessed the performance of the Chairman. The conclusions
of those assessments have been presented to the Board by the
Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director. The
evaluation process is designed to cover Board processes, the
structure and capability of the Board, strategic alignment and the
skills brought to the Board by each director.
Board committees
There are a number of Committees of the Board to which various
matters are delegated. The Committees all have formal Terms of
Reference that have been approved by the Board, and
performance of the Committees are assessed annually by the
Board.  Terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committee are available on the Group’s website
(www.H-L.co.uk).  Details are set out below:
The Nomination Committee
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board
appointments, re-election and succession of directors and the
Chairman. It is responsible for making recommendations to the
Board concerning the composition of the Board including
proposed appointees to the Board, whether to fill any vacancies
that may arise or to change the number of Board members.  The
committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its members
during the period since Admission were Michael Evans and
Stephen Lansdown.  The Company Secretary also attends in her
capacity as Secretary of the Company.  The Nominations
committee meets at least once each year.  
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new directors to the Board. This process will
involve the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable
candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or
by an external search company. Careful consideration will be given
to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the
role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on
the Board will be maintained. When the Committee has found a
suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a
proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the
responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from
the Committee. 
All directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least
every three years if they wish to continue serving and are
considered by the Board to be eligible.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or
broad policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors
of the Group as well as their performance management.  These
will be determined with due regard to the interests of the
Company and the Shareholders.  It monitors the levels and
structure of remuneration for senior management and seeks to
ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the
Executive Directors needed to run the Company successfully.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice during each
financial year.  The committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and
its other members during the period since Admission were
Michael Evans and Stephen Lansdown. 
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and an
explanation of how it applies the directors’ remuneration
principles of the Combined Code, are set out in the directors’
remuneration report.
24
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 23 Audit committee
The Audit Committee will be responsible for assisting the Board in
discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting including the
integrity of the annual and interim reports, preliminary results and
any other formal announcements relating to financial performance,
risk reporting and reviewing the Company’s internal corporate
control.  The Audit Committee’s primary responsibilities are to
review the financial statements, to review the Group’s internal
control and risk management systems, to consider the appointment
of the external auditors, their independence and reports to the
Committee, as well as to review the programme of Internal Audit.
The committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its other
members during the period since Admission were Michael Evans
and Stephen Lansdown.  It is intended that the Audit committee
should meet at least three times each year.
The committee met four times during this financial year.  On each
occasion the Head of Internal Audit, Group Compliance Director,
Group Accounting Director and Group Finance Director were
invited to attend.  The external auditors attended three of the
meetings.
It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that
an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Company
and its auditors. The Company has a policy of controlling the
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to
maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and
independence are safeguarded. Where non-audit fees are expected 
to be significant, either individually or cumulatively, the prior 
approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required. 
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of Deloitte
and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the
auditors are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken. The
Company has an internal audit function and the relationship
between it and the external auditors is routinely assessed at
Committee meetings. The Company has developed a whistle
blowing arrangement to deal with complaints from employees
about any accounting or financial management impropriety or
other questionable practices or conduct should they arise.
Executive committee
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive
Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for
decision by the full Board.  In particular the Executive Committee
is responsible to the Chief Executive for developing and
monitoring every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing
basis, for developing and implementing business strategy as agreed
by the Board and ensuring that day to day operations are
conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and
statutory requirements.
The Executive Committee, established in March 2007, is chaired
by Theresa Barry, Group Marketing Director, and also comprises
Nigel Bence, Andrew Christian, Adam Norris and Tracey Taylor.
Lee Gardhouse and Alex Davies are also invited to attend in their
roles as directors of subsidiary Group companies.  The Executive
Committee meets at least quarterly but more frequently when
required.
* Where board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to
discuss matters at short notice, all board members are sent papers
and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if
they are unable to attend at short notice.  Six board meetings held
during the year were convened to allow the IPO working party to
discuss specific matters relevant to the IPO and as such all
directors were not required to be in attendance.  
Training
The Group’s overall objective is to maintain and enhance
professional standards for all its employees.  It is particularly
necessary to maintain these standards for all staff who fall under
the scope of the Financial Services Authority Training and
Competence rules.  All directors and staff under the scope of these
rules are required to perform a certain number of hours of
development training during a year.  This development training is
divided into structured and unstructured time.
New directors are given an induction process, which includes time
with several of the senior managers and executives in a number of
business areas, demonstrations of systems and visits to the offices.
Current directors
Peter Hargreaves
Stephen Lansdown
Martin Mulligan
Jonathan Bloomer
Michael Evans
Nomination
committee
meetings
Executive
committee
meetings
Remuneration
committee
meetings
Audit
committee
meetings
Board
Meetings 
(IPO) *
Board
Meetings *
Former executive directors
Theresa Barry
Nigel Bence
Andrew Christian
Adam Norris 
Tracey Taylor
5/5 5/6 1/1 2/2 - -
5/5 6/6 2/2 3/3 1/1 -
5/5 4/6 3/3 - - -
3/3 1/6 3/3 1/1 1/1 -
4/4 1/6 4/4 1/1 1/1 -
2/3 0/3 1/1 2/2 - 1/1
3/3 1/3 3/3 - - 1/1
3/3 0/3 - - - 1/1
3/3 1/3 - - - 1/1
2/3 3/3 3/3 - - 1/1
Attendance at meetings
during the financial year
25
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 24 Performance evaluation
Individual appraisal of each director’s performance is undertaken
either by the Chief Executive or Chairman each year and involves
meetings with each director on a one-to one basis. The non-
executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry
out an appraisal of the performance of the Chairman. 
Other information
Any director has access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if
necessary, at the Company’s expense. The Company Secretary is
responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are
followed.  Any removal or appointment of the Company Secretary
is decided by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders
Shareholder relations
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications
with shareholders and has a programme of communication with
shareholders through interim and annual reports, the AGM and
the Investor Relations section of the corporate website at 
www.H-L.co.uk.  It is intended that all directors will attend each
AGM and shareholders will be given the opportunity to
participate by asking questions at the AGM on 30 November
2007.  In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director intend to have dialogue with individual
institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of
their views which can be fed back to the Board. General
presentations are also given to analysts and investors covering the
annual and interim results. 
Accountability and audit
Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as
the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the
financial statements, the Group has the resources to continue in
business for the foreseeable future.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of
internal control and risk management and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The directors are required to establish systems for
the control of the conduct of the business and to conduct the
business with prudence and integrity.  In discharging this
responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the
procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority. These
procedures have been in place since Admission and will be
regularly reviewed by the Board. Business performance is
managed closely and the Board and the Management have
established processes, as part of the normal good management of
the business, to monitor:
 strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of
progress towards strategic objectives;
 financial performance, within a comprehensive financial
planning and accounting framework, including forecasting,
financial reporting, reviewing variances against plan and taking
appropriate management action; and
 risk management processes, which accord with the Turnbull
guidance and are supported by reports from the Head of
Internal Audit that the significant risks faced by the Company
are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed,
having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity. 
The key features of the system of business control and risk
assessment established by the Board include:
 a well defined management structure with clear
accountabilities and delegations; 
 the Group Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, and a
system of executive management risk committees, which
enhance and support the oversight role of the Board; 
 a planning process that delivers detailed annual financial
forecasts and targets for Board approval; 
 management information systems which enable the Board to
receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and
business performance; 
 an Internal Audit function which reports to the Audit
Committee on the effectiveness of key internal controls in
relation to these major risks; 
 a Compliance function to manage relationships with the
Group's key regulators and to identify major compliance and
regulatory risks; 
 a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and anti-money
laundering procedures, and controls including training
programmes for all staff; 
 a Financial Crime and Risk Management Committee, chaired
by the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, which considers
the potential exposure of the Group to loss through financial
crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such
loss; and
 a Group Internal Control Policy requiring all senior managers
to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal
controls applied throughout the business. The Group's
Internal Audit Department carries out reviews of the
effectiveness of internal controls operated by each department
or business unit as part of the audit of that department or unit; 
26
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 25 In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from the Head
of Internal Audit and Risk on the work carried out under the annual
internal audit plan, and also reports from the external auditors.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Group's Internal
Control Policy to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee
received reports on the current operation of internal controls in
relation to key and emerging risks, and the Audit Committee
carried out an overall review of the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control for the year to 30 June 2007 and the
period to the date of this report, on behalf of the Board.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Group’s risk
management policies and procedures to the Executive Committee.
There has been in place for the year under review and up to the
date of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. A summary of
the significant risks is provided within the Operating and Financial
Review.  This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Turnbull Guidance for directors on the
Combined Code.
The Board receives minutes and reports from the Chairmen of the
Audit Committee and the Executive Committee. These identify
any significant issues relating to the adequacy of the Group's
system of internal control and to the risk management policies and
procedures across the full range of risks to which the Group is
exposed, and how they are being controlled. The Board, the
Executive Committee and the Audit Committee receive reports
from the Head of Internal Audit identifying the effectiveness of
internal controls together with specific reports on any major
issues. 
The majority of the activities of the Group, including the systems
of business control, are subject to supervision by the Financial
Services Authority. The Group is required on a regular basis to
submit detailed prudential and statistical returns covering all areas
of its business and meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting
the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has
conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal
control during the year ended 30 June 2007. The system of
internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable
assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the
business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud. In that
context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate
that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is
not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this
Annual Report.
Model Code
The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the
FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Audit committee and auditors
The Audit Committee report on the following pages provides
details of the role and activities of the committee and its
relationship with the internal and external auditors.
Stephen Lansdown
Chairman 
17 October 2007
27
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 26 Summary of the role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.  The Audit
Committee’s terms of reference include all matters indicated by
the Combined Code.  The terms of reference are considered
annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the
Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
 monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the
Group and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s
financial performance and reviewing significant financial
reporting judgements contained therein;
 reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and, unless
expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Group’s internal
control and risk management systems;
 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal audit function;
 making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be
put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting,
in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the
approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditors;
 reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process,
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and
regulatory requirements; and
 developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of
the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-
audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the
Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that
action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as
to the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are:
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of
the Committee at regular intervals and any recommendation for
new appointments are made to the Nominations Committee for
onward recommendation to the Board.  Appointments are for a
period of three years and are extendable by no more than two
additional three year periods.  It is the intention that the
Committee will comprise of three independent non-executive
directors when a third non-executive director is appointed to the
Board.  Three members constitute a quorum.
The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one
financially qualified member (as recognised by the Consultative
Committee of Accountancy Bodies).  Currently the Audit
Committee Chairman fulfils this requirement.  All Audit
Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit
Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the
Committee members to carry out their duties.  The induction
programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of
reference and expected time commitment by members; and an
overview of the Group’s business, including the main business and
financial dynamics and risks.  New Committee members also meet
some of the Group’s staff.  Ongoing training includes attendance
at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by
external advisers.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an
understanding of:
 the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial
reporting including the applicable accounting standards and
statements of recommended practice;
 key aspects of the Group’s operations including corporate
policies, Group financing, products and systems of internal
control;
 matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts
and key figures;
 the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-
specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation;
 the role of internal and external auditing and risk
management;
 the regulatory framework for the Group’s businesses; and
 environmental and social responsibility best practices.
Audit Committee Report
Name Date of appointment Qualification
Jonathan Bloomer 18 September 2006 Chartered accountant
Michael Evans 1 September 2006 Actuary
Stephen Lansdown 28 February 2007 Chartered accountant
28
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 27 Meetings
The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and
has an agenda linked to events in the Group’s financial calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by
the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his or her fellow
members.  Each Audit Committee member has the right to
require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical
items.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group
Finance Director, Group Accounting Director, Head of Internal
Audit, Group Compliance Director and senior representatives of
the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, although
it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to
withdraw.  Other senior management are invited to present such
reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit
Committee to discharge its duties
Since 1 July 2006 the Audit Committee has:
 reviewed the financial statements in the 2006 reports and
accounts, the interim report issued in January 2007, the
documents prepared for the purposes of Admission to the
main market including the Prospectus.  As part of this review
the Committee received a report from the external auditors on
their audit of the annual reports and accounts and review of
the interim report and reports from external advisers;
 considered the output from the Group-wide process used to
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks;
 reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and
disclosures made in the annual report and accounts on this
matter;
 reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be
undertaken by the auditors;
 monitored the work being undertaken by the Group in
preparation for the introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards;
 considered a report from the external auditors on their review
of the effectiveness of controls across the Group and received a
report on management action taken in response to work
undertaken by the auditors in 2006;
 agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their
audit of the 2007 accounts and interim report;
 reviewed its own effectiveness;
 undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the Internal
Audit function;
 agreed a programme of work for the Company’s Internal
Audit function;
 undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the external
auditors;
 received reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work
undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses to
proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function
during the year; and
 received presentations on the Group’s treasury and tax
functions. 
External auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Group’s policy on external
audit.  The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring
the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and
regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day
responsibility to the Group Accounting Director.  The policy
states that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the
Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is
the primary contact.
The Group’s policy on external audit sets out the categories of
non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be
allowed to provide to the Group, subject to de minimis levels and
Audit Committee Chairman approval.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the
external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed:
 the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors’
plan for the current year;
 the arrangements for day to day management of the audit
relationship;
 confirmation that no external audit staff are employed by the
Group;
 a report from the external auditors describing their
arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of
interest; and
 the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the
external auditors, in addition to their case by case approval of
the position of non-audit services by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit
Committee reviewed:
 the external auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and
variations from the plan;
 the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
 the content of the external auditor’s Internal Control Report.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities
outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the
Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
29
Audit Committee Report - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 28 Internal Audit function
The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and
plans of the Internal Audit department.  To fulfil these duties, the
Committee reviewed:
 Internal Audit’s terms of reference, reporting lines and access
to the Audit Committee and all members of the Board;
 Internal Audit’s plans and its achievement of the planned
activity;
 the results of key audits and other significant findings, the
adequacy of management’s response and the timeliness of
resolution;
 the statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience
and timeliness of reporting; and
 the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by
Internal Audit.
The Group’s Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the
Head of Internal Audit to receive, in confidence, complaints on
accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and
related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as
appropriate.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has
concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of
reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work
of the committee.
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on
its behalf by:
Stephen Lansdown
Member of the Audit Committee
17 October 2007
30
Audit Committee Report - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 29 Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to
the Companies Act 1985.  The report also meets the relevant
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles
relating to directors’ remuneration.  As required by the Act, a
resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting of the Company at which the financial
statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s
members on certain parts of the directors’ remuneration report
and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985.  The report has therefore been divided into separate
sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee
Hargreaves Lansdown was admitted to the main market of the
London Stock Exchange and to unconditional dealing on 18 May
2007 (“Admission”).  This report deals with the remuneration
policies and the work of the Remuneration Committee in the
period since Admission.
The Company has established a Remuneration Committee.  The
Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or
broad policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors
of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as their performance
management.  These will be determined with due regard to the
interests of the Company and the Shareholders.  The Committee
makes recommendations to the Board.  No director plays a part in
any discussion about his or her own remuneration. The
Remuneration Committee will meet at least twice per year and is
governed by formal Terms of Reference. They are reviewed
annually and can be viewed at www.H-L.co.uk.
The Remuneration Committee is constituted in accordance with
the recommendations of the Combined Code, except for the
inclusion of Stephen Lansdown as a member of the committee.
The members of the committee during 2006/07 from the period
since Admission to the date of this report were Jonathan Bloomer,
Michael Evans and Stephen Lansdown.  Jonathan Bloomer and
Michael Evans are independent non-executive directors and the
committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer.   Stephen Lansdown is
the Chairman of the Company and an executive director.   The
constitution of the Remuneration Committee is therefore not
strictly in compliance with the principle of the Combined Code
which requires that this committee should comprise only
independent non-executive directors. However, the directors
consider that the Remuneration Committee will, in practice,
operate in compliance with the Combined Code's principles of
independence. It is intended that upon appointment, a further
independent non-executive director will replace Stephen
Lansdown on the Remuneration Committee.   
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest (other
than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from cross-
directorships or, except for Stephen Lansdown, any day-to-day
involvement in running the business.  
In determining the directors’ remuneration for the year, the
Committee consulted Peter Hargreaves (Chief Executive) and
Theresa Barry (Group Marketing Director) about its proposals
and they both attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee
except when their own remuneration is being discussed.    
The role of the Committee
The Committee’s purpose is to:
 determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration
policy for the Chairman, executive directors of the Company
and of the subsidiary companies;
 ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to
attract, retain, and motivate the executive directors needed to
run the Company and the Group; and
 monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior
management.
The Committee also ensures that the remuneration relationship
between the executive directors and senior executives of the
Company below this level is appropriate.  In particular, any
exceptional remuneration arrangements for senior executives are
advised to the Committee. 
Remuneration policy for the executive directors of the
Company and of the subsidiary companies
Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to
attract, motivate and retain directors of the high calibre needed to
maintain the Group’s position as a market leader and to reward
them for enhancing value to shareholders.  The performance
measurement of the executive directors and key members of senior
management and the determination of their annual remuneration
package are undertaken by the Committee.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for
executive directors and senior management:
 basic annual salary;
 benefits-in-kind;
 share option incentives; 
 pension arrangements and;
 annual bonus payments.
Hargreaves Lansdown has a long-standing policy of rewarding
talent and experience. Incentives are provided for delivering high
growth and high returns for shareholders. The Committee believes
that a significant proportion of total remuneration should be
performance-related to closely align the interests of shareholders
and executive directors of the Group. As described below, executive
directors may earn annual performance-related bonus payments
together with the benefits of participation in share option schemes.
In determining the balance between the fixed and variable
elements of the executive directors’ remuneration packages, the
Committee has regard to policy and also market practice. The
remuneration strategy for executive directors and other key
executives is tailored to emphasise the delivery of strong year-on-
year earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the
longer term.  Performance is rewarded through a combination of
cash and longer term share awards as appropriate.  This ensures
continued emphasis on strong annual performance combined with
long-term executive share ownership, provides a strong link
between the incentives received and shareholder value delivered.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
31
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 30 Hargreaves Lansdown operates in a highly competitive
environment.  The success and performance of the business
depends on teamwork and the talents of the key team.
Hargreaves Lansdown has a loyal, stable and successful
management team, and the Group continues to build and retain
the management team at senior levels. We believe our incentives
should support the continued progress within the existing
business, and the creation of new businesses.  The Committee has
reviewed the current remuneration arrangements in light of these
requirements and in comparison with comparator companies.
Basic annual salary 
An executive director’s basic salary is reviewed annually by the
Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year and when
an individual changes position or responsibility.  In deciding
appropriate levels, the Committee considers salaries throughout
the Group as a whole, survey data and information provided by
advisers and up-to-date information on a comparator group of
companies in the financial sector.  
Basic salaries were reviewed in June 2007 with increases taking
effect from 1 July 2007.  On average salaries were increased by 35
per cent to bring salaries in line with those of other comparable
listed companies.  Executive directors’ contracts of service which
include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at
the Annual General Meeting.
Benefits-in-kind
The executive directors are entitled to life assurance cover of three
times the executive's salary and, subject to the rules of the scheme,
permanent health insurance.  The executive directors may also
receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally car fuel and insurance
costs.  
Share option incentives
The executive directors of the Company and subsidiary companies
may have options granted to them under the terms of the
Executive Share Option Scheme.  Options under this scheme may
be granted to employees and directors of the Company and its
subsidiaries as selected by the Remuneration Committee.  Under
that scheme, options are allocated to qualifying employees and
directors by reference to individual past performance and
therefore the exercise of options granted under the Executive
Scheme are not dependent upon performance criteria.    
The executive directors of the Company and subsidiary companies
are entitled to participate in the SAYE share option scheme on the
same terms as all other employees.  They are also entitled to
participate in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP) on the same terms as
all other employees.   
The exercise price of the options granted under the above schemes
is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the time
when the options are granted.  Benefits received under share
incentive schemes are not pensionable.     
The Group does not operate any long-term incentive schemes
other than the share option schemes described above.  No
significant amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and
conditions of any entitlement of a director to share options.
Pension arrangements
Executive directors are eligible to join the Group defined
contribution personal pension scheme (the "PPS"). The Company
contributes up to 2 per cent of salary to the PPS as a matching
contribution. Bonuses and other benefits are not pensionable.  All
staff and executive directors become eligible to join the PPS on 1
October each year.  
Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown do not participate in the
PPS.  In previous years the Company has instead contributed to
their small self-administered pension schemes which are
administered within the Company (the "SSASs"). The Company
no longer contributes to these SSASs which are now fully funded
within HMRC limits. Funds held within the SSASs have recently
been transferred into the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage SIPP
service. 
Annual bonus payments
The directors’ service contracts provide that the executives may be
paid a discretionary bonus for each financial year of the Company,
subject to a maximum bonus of 100 per cent of salary in the case
of Stephen Lansdown, Peter Hargreaves and Theresa Barry.  The
Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each
financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid.  In setting appropriate
bonus parameters the Committee refers to research on a
comparator group of companies.  The Committee believes that
any incentive compensation awarded should be tied to the
interests of the Company’s shareholders and that the principal
measure of those interests is Earnings Per Share.  Account is also
taken of the relative success of the different parts of the business
for which the executive directors are responsible and the extent to
which the strategic objectives set by the Board are being met.  The
Committee does not consider it appropriate to set an upper limit
on discretionary awards because of the remuneration practices and
culture within the Group, in common with many other financial
services companies.  Annual bonus payments to executive
directors and management are not capped and are not
pensionable.  
32
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 31 Performance graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return (TSR) i.e capital growth and dividends
paid, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 General Financial Index during the period since flotation.  
As the Company was not listed on a stock exchange prior to May 2007, a comparison of TSR prior to 15 May 2007 has not been
possible due to the absence of a quoted share price.  The Company’s performance measured using underlying adjusted earnings per
share (EPS) has also been compared against the performance of the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors should have
contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one
year’s notice.  All executive directors currently have contracts
which are subject to one year’s notice by either party.  The
Company may at any time exercise its discretion to pay the
executives in lieu of the notice period.     
Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown who are proposed for
re-election at the next annual general meeting have service
contracts which provide for a notice period of one year.  
Hargreaves Lansdown recognises that its Executive Directors may
be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge
which can benefit the Company. Subject to approval by the Board,
Executive Directors are allowed to accept non-executive
appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these
appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest. Peter
Hargreaves currently receives fees of £20,000 p.a in respect of his
duties as a non-executive director of ITM Power plc. 
2003 2004 2005
Growth in EPS
2006 2007
15/05/07 30/05/07 14/06/07 29/06/07
Total shareholder return
33
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
HL TSR
FTSE 350
GENERAL FINANCIAL
HL EPS
FTSE 350
GENERAL FINANCIAL
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 32 Current executive directors
P Hargreaves 5 April 2007 12 months
5 April 2007 12 months
15 January 2007 12 months
S Lansdown
M Mulligan
M T Barry 5 April 2007 12 months
1 November 2006 12 months
10 October 2006
10 October 2006
28 November 2006
12 months
12 months
12 months
A Norris
A Christian
N Bence
T Taylor
Date of contract Name of director Notice period
Former executive directors
The details of the directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement,
which are available for inspection, and their remuneration is
determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of
Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-
executive directors of similar companies.  Each non-executive
director is a member of the Remuneration Committee, Nominations
Committee and Audit Committees, and the basic fee of £35,000
p.a paid includes a fee for membership of each committee.
Additional fees of £15,000 p.a are paid to Jonathan Bloomer for
chairmanship of the three committees.  Non-executive directors
cannot participate in any of the Company’s share option schemes
and are not eligible to join the Company’s pension scheme.
Appointments are for a fixed term of three years from the
commencement date unless terminated by either party on three
months' written notice or by the Company at any time with
immediate effect on payment in lieu of notice.  Non-executive
directors are entitled to reimbursement of all reasonable and
properly documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties and the Company
maintains appropriate directors' and officers' liability insurance for
their benefit.
Audited information
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows: 2006
£’000
2007
£’000
Pension contributions
Emoluments
Gains on exercise of share options
Share-based payments
25,730 20,958
1,752 253
160 654
27,651 22,050
9 185
34
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Directors’ pension entitlements
8 directors were members of money purchase schemes during 2007 (2006: 8).  Contributions paid by the Company in respect of such
directors were as follows:
* amounts shown cover the period in which the person served as a director of the Company during 2007.
** amounts shown cover the period in which the person served as a director of the Company during 2006.
2006
£ 
2007
£
P K Hargreaves
S P Lansdown
M J Mulligan
- 51,840
2,000 2,000
- 123,130
Current Executive Directors
Name of director
M T Barry
A Norris
A Christian
N Bence
T Taylor**
1,333 2,000
1,333 2,000
1,333 2,000
1,333 283
8,665 185,253
1,333 2,000
Former Executive Directors *
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 33 Directors’ emoluments 
During March 2007 the Remuneration Committee agreed a remuneration policy for all directors of the Group. The amount by which
directors’ emoluments paid in prior periods has exceeded the maximum amounts which could be payable in future periods under this
policy has been noted as an exceptional item in the financial statements as it is not expected to recur in future periods.  2007
emoluments shown in the above table include £23,950,000 (2006: £17,400,000) of exceptional emoluments.
Directors’ share options
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company
granted to or held by the directors. During the year, the following current and former executive directors acquired Ordinary Shares in the
Company from the EBT pursuant to Share Options under the Option Scheme (Unapproved), and the SAYE scheme on the following terms:
2006 
Total £
2007 
Total £
Performance
bonuses £
Benefits
in kind £
Fees/Basic
salary £
Name of director
P K Hargreaves
S P Lansdown
M J Mulligan
10,059,840 7,100,000
525,000 375,000
10,176,646 10,000,000
9,925,000
425,000 -
5,673
34,979 141,667
129,167
100,000
20,761,486 16,575,000 20,350,000 40,652 370,834
3,583,334 3,000,000 3,516,667 - 66,667
333,334 375,000 266,667 - 66,667
333,334 345,000 266,667 - 66,667
300,000 320,000 233,333 - 66,667
350,000 42,231 283,333 - 66,667
4,900,002 4,082,231 4,566,667 - 333,335
9,100,000
Current Executive Directors
Gains on
exercise 
2006 
£
Gains on
exercise 
2007 
£
Market price
at exercise
date
Date of acquisition
Exercise 
Price
Number of
ordinary
shares aquired
Name of director
Martin Mulligan
Tracey Taylor
Nigel Bence
Theresa Barry
Andrew Christian
Adam Norris
- 19,528
198,671 -
74,729 £2.10
£0.24
£2.06 6 June 2007
26 May 2006
29 June 2007 £0.04
£0.04
£0.04
£0.04
£0.04
- 52,786 £0.24
- 42,060 £0.09
26 May 2006
9 December 2005
-
M T Barry
A Norris
A Christian
N Bence
T Taylor**
Former Executive Directors *
39,511 - - - 39,511
29,167 - - - 29,167
68,678 - - - 68,678
25,730,166 20,657,231 24,916,667 40,652 772,847
J Bloomer
M Evans
Non-executive Directors
Aggregate emoluments
36,300
98,175
98,175
265,375
825,000
£0.55 - - £0.55 28 September 2006 2,750,000
£0.04 73,458 - £2.06 6 June 2007 36,300
£0.04 - 19,911 £0.24 26 May 2006 100,100
£0.55 - - £0.55 29 March 2007 1,650,000
£0.55 637,125 - £2.09 28 June 2007 412,500
£0.04 202,107 - £2.10 29 June 2007 98,175
£0.04 - 52,786 £0.24 26 May 2006 265,375
£0.64 - - £0.55 29 March 2007 605,000
£0.04 472,148 - £2.10 29 June 2007 229,350
£0.04 89,448 - £2.10 29 June 2007 43,450
£0.04 - 23,959 £0.24 26 May 2006 120,450
£0.04 - 42,060
1,747,686 253,090
£0.09 2 August 2006 825,000
35
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
*amounts shown cover the period during the 2007 financial year in which the person served as a director of the Company, and the amounts include annual
performance bonuses accrued for the relevant period, but exclude unearned exceptional bonus costs. **2006 amounts shown for T Taylor cover the period during
the 2006 financial year in which T Taylor served as a director of the Company, and the amount includes annual performance bonus accrued for the relevant period.
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 34 36
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Note: in the above table, the market price at exercise date shown for shares acquired prior to 15 May 2007 represents the approved
price agreed by HMRC at a date closest to the acquisition date.  All share prices and volumes have been adjusted for the effects of the
share reorganisation as described in note 22 to the financial statements.
The interests of the directors who served during the year in options to acquire shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are as follows:
*  Adam Norris waived 687,500 share options during the year.
** Denotes options that were granted before the individual was appointed as a director of the Company.
The market price of the ordinary 0.4 pence shares at 30 June 2007 was £2.11 and the range during the period since 15 May 2007,
being the date when the shares were first traded on the London Stock Exchange, to 30 June 2007 was £2.00 to £2.18.
All of the current and former executive directors, with the exception of Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown, were each awarded
12,650 Ordinary Shares on 8 November 2006 under the terms of the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP).  At the award date
the HMRC approved market value was £0.24 per share.  These shares are subject to a three year retention period and are held by the
trustee of the SIP, Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Limited.  The figures shown above are exclusive of such awards.  Options
granted under the share option and share incentive schemes are not subject to performance criteria.  
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 17 October 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Lansdown
Member of the Remuneration Committee
17 October 2007
Date from
which
exercisable
Expiration
Date
Exercise 
Price
At 30 June
2007
Granted
At 1 July 
2006
Name of
Director
Martin
Mulligan
Theresa Barry
Jul 2016 Jul 2006
Jan 2008 Jun 2007
Feb 2016 £0.55
£0.64
£0.04 -
275,000
1,375,000 -
275,000
-
-
26,400
Mar 2009 Sept 2008 £0.04
Nov 2012 May 2012 £0.55
17,325
26,400
Exercised
36,300
-
-
-
-
Feb 2006 1,375,000
-
36,300
17,325
-
Type of
scheme
Option Scheme
Option Scheme
SAYE
SAYE
SAYE
- Jan 2008 Jun 2007 £0.04 - 98,175 98,175 SAYE
SAYE
Nigel Bence
Andrew
Christian
Tracey Taylor
Adam Norris
550,000 Jul 2016 Jul 2006 £0.64 550,000 - -
- Jan 2008 Jun 2007 £0.04 - 43,450 43,450
SAYE - Mar 2009 Sept 2008 £0.04 20,900 - 20,900
SAYE 28,325 Nov 2012 May 2012 £0.55 28,325 - -
Option Scheme - Feb 2016 Feb 2006 £0.55 - 2,750,000 2,750,000
SAYE ** - Jan 2008 Jun 2007 £0.04 - 36,300 36,300
SAYE ** - Mar 2009 Sept 2008 £0.04 17,325 - 17,325
SAYE 28,600 Nov 2012 May 2012 £0.55 28,600 - -
Option Scheme
Option Scheme
- Feb 2016 Feb 2006 £0.55 - 2,062,500 2,062,500
- Feb 2016 Feb 2006 £0.55 - 687,500 (*) 687,500
SAYE ** - Jan 2008 Jun 2007 £0.04 - 98,175 98,175
SAYE - Mar 2009 Sept 2008 £0.04 45,375 - 45,375
SAYE 26,675 Nov 2012 May 2012 £0.55 26,675 - -
Option Scheme 825,000 Jul 2016 Jul 2006 £0.64 220,000 605,000 -
SAYE ** - Jan 2008 Jun 2007 £0.04 - 229,350 229,350
SAYE ** - Mar 2009 Sept 2008 £0.04 108,350 - 108,350
SAYE 22,550 Nov 2012 May 2012 £0.55 22,550 - -
Option Scheme
Current Executive Directors
Former Executive Directors
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 35 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the financial statements.  The directors are required to prepare
financial statements for the Group in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and have also
elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in
accordance with IFRS.  Company law requires the directors to
prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial
statements present fairly for each financial year the financial
position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and
the Company.  This requires the faithful representation of the
effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities,
income and expenses set out in the International Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance
with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and of the Group, for
safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for
the preparation of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration
report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act
1985.
37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 36 Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
38
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial
statements (the ''financial statements'') of Hargreaves Lansdown
plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 which comprise the Group
Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of
Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and Parent Company
Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow
Statements, and the related notes 1 to 35. These financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors'
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.  Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose.  To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union
are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part
of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors'
Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information
given in the Directors' Report includes that specific information
presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross
referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the board's statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as
described in the contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Group's and Company's circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
that the financial statements and the part of the Directors'
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of
the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its
profit for the year then ended;
 the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Company's
affairs as at 30 June 2007; 
 the financial statements and the part of the Directors'
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
 the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent
with the financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied
with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group's affairs
as at 30 June 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants and
Registered Auditors, Bristol, United Kingdom
17 October 2007 
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 37 Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
Note
98,769 4 73,460
(58,098) (49,190)
(29,628) (19,627)
98,769
6
6
40,671 24,270
(29,628) (19,627) 6
73,460
Revenue
Total operating income
Administrative expenses
Exceptional administrative expenses
(87,726) (68,817) Total administrative expenses
1,430 2,919 8 Investment revenue
11,917 35 9 Other gains and losses
(7,435) (1,584) 10 Tax
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional administrative expenses
Exceptional administrative expenses
11,043 4,643 Operating profit 
11,043 4,643 Operating profit
24,390 7,597 Profit before tax
16,955 6,013 6 Profit for the year
11 Dividend per share (pence)
3.00 0.36 Interim dividend
- 1.09 Special interim dividend
- 0.36 Final dividend
3.00 1.81 Total dividend per share
Earnings per share
3.6 1.4 12 Basic earnings per share * (pence)
3.6 1.3 12 Diluted earnings per share * (pence)
All income, profits and earnings are in respect of continuing operations.
* The directors consider that the underlying earnings per share figures as shown in note 12 represents a more consistent measure of underlying
performance as this measure excludes the impact of exceptional items.
39
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 38 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
40
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Company Group
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
3,100 18,885 
68 79 
(1,461) -
Profit for the financial year
Increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments, net of tax
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments transferred to income
statement, net of tax
Gain/(loss) on sale of shares by employee benefit trust, net of tax
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
16,955 6,013
(1,393) 79 Net income recognised directly in equity 4,944 2,823
1,707 18,964 Total recognised income and expense for the financial year 21,899 8,836
1,202 2,886
- - 12,093 (63)
(8,351) -
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 39 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
- - 
Non-current assets
Goodwill
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
Note
1,333 13 1,333
- - Other intangible assets 81 14 97
338 511 Property, plant and equipment 2,249 15 1,719
2,152 2,152 Investments - 17 -
440 30 Deferred tax assets 4,978 19 820
2,930 2,693 8,641 3,969
3,466 16,086
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 51,533 18 48,075
103 - Cash and cash equivalents 48,092 18 13,745
478 4,649 Investments 1,169 17 13,352
4,047 20,735 100,794 75,172
6,977 23,428 109,435 79,141
2,882 1,028
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 63,976 20 57,610
- 6,300 Cash and cash equivalents - 18 -
- - Current tax liabilities 154 -
2,882 7,328 64,130 57,610
Total assets
1,165 13,407 36,664 17,562 Net current assets
2,882 7,742 64,940 61,672 Total liabilities
4,095 15,686 44,495 17,469 Net assets
4,095 15,686 44,495 17,469 Total equity, attributable to equity shareholders of the parent         
- 414
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Trade and other payables
Provisions
- 19 2,882
- - 281 20 665
- - 529 21 515
- 414 810 4,062
1,897 172
Equity
Share capital
Share premium account
Investment revaluation reserve
Capital redemption reserve
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve
EBT reserve
Share option reserve
Retained earnings
1,897 22 172
8 1,733 8 23 1,733
- 1,393 - 24 7,149
12 12 12 25 12
- - (7,552) 26 (19,809)
- - 12,030 27 (63)
- - 7,082 28 914
2,178 12,376 31,018 29 27,361
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 17 October 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Lansdown, Chairman Martin Mulligan, Group Finance Director 
17 October 2007 17 October 2007 
41
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 40 Statement of Cash Flows
42
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Company Group
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
60 5
Investing activities
Interest received
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
Note
1,228 993
7,575 34,349 Dividends received from investments 202 1,926
4,820 85 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments 14,281 -
(2) - Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,437) (830)
- - Purchase of intangible fixed assets
Acquisition of investments
Proceeds on sale of investment in associated undertaking
Purchases of own shares
Proceeds on sale of own shares
(53) (17)
- (1) (212) (69)
- - - 85
- - - (19,667)
- - 25,645 264
7,248 (32,884) Net cash from operating activities, after tax 7,741 30 6,776
12,453 34,438 Net cash from / (used in) investing activities 39,654 (17,315)
(13,298) (7,863) Net cash from / (used in) financing activities (13,048) (7,863)
6,403 (6,309) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 34,347 (18,402)
(6,300) 9 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 13,745 32,147
103 (6,300) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 48,092 13,745
- -
Financing activities
Receipts from repayment of loan 250 -
(13,298) (7,863) Dividends paid (13,298) (7,863)
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 41 Notes to the Financial Statements
1. General information
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) is a company
incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act
1985 whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock
Exchange. The address of the registered office is Kendal House,
4 Brighton Mews, Clifton, Bristol, BS8 2NX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are
set out in the Operating and Financial Review. 
On 18 May 2007 the Company was admitted to the Official List
of the Financial Services Authority and to unconditional trading on
the London Stock Exchange plc’s main market for listed securities.  
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the
Group operates. 
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc
have, for the first time, been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and
interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee of the IASB (together “IFRS”) as
endorsed by the European Union. The Company's financial
statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted
by Section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, no income
statement is presented for the Company.  The Company’s profit
after tax for the year was £3,100,000 (2006: £18,885,000).
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet
effective:
Effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 1 July
2007:
Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements –
Capital Disclosures’ 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure’ 
IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’ 
IFRIC 9 ‘Re-assessment of embedded derivatives’ 
IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’
Effective for the Group for future financial years:
Amendment to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ 
IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’ 
The Group has considered the above new standards,
interpretations and amendments to published standards that are
not yet effective and concluded that they are either not relevant to
the Group or that they would not have a significant impact on the
Group’s financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
The implementation of IFRIC 11 affects the accounting treatment
of arrangements where a parent company grants rights to its equity
instruments to employees in a subsidiary company and does not
effect the overall position of the Group but will require that the
transaction is treated as a capital contribution by the parent
company.  It is effective for accounting periods commencing on or
after 1 March 2007.
The financial statements of the Group and of Hargreaves
Lansdown plc (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) for the
first time. The transitional disclosures required by IFRS 1
concerning the transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (“UK GAAP”) to IFRSs are set out in note 35.  The
date of transition to IFRS for the Group and the Company was 1
July 2005.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost
basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
2. Significant accounting policies
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied
throughout the years.  
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 30 June 2007.  Control is
achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits
from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year
are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal,
as appropriate.  Associated undertakings are accounted for using
the equity method, and the Group income statement includes the
appropriate share of those undertakings’ results.  
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with
those used by the Group.  All intra-group transactions, balances,
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
43
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 42 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
44
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase
method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of
the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group
in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly
attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the
conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair
value at the acquisition date. 
Undertakings, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the
Group has an investment and over which it is in a position to
exercise a significant influence are treated as associated
undertakings and are accounted for using the equity method.  The
Group accounts include the appropriate share of those
undertakings’ results.  
Any gains or losses on sale of the Company’s own shares held by
the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) are
credited directly to the EBT reserve and are treated as
undistributable profits.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less
costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset
(or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present
condition. Management must be committed to the sale which
should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale
within one year from the date of classification.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost
of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly
controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost
less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is
recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is
not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity,
the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to
IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not
been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 July 2005 has been
retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 30 June 1997 has not been reinstated
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on
disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received
or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT
and other sales-related taxes. Fund based commissions are
recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of
assets under the administration, or agency, of the Group.  Initial
commissions are deemed to be earned at the policy inception date,
except in the case of the Group’s stockbroking and unit trust
management subsidiary undertakings where all income earned on
securities transactions entered into on behalf of clients are recorded
in the accounts on the date of the transaction.
Where commission is received on an indemnity basis, a provision is
made for clawbacks which would be due if the policy lapses.  
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, using the effective
interest rate method.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates but
before investment revenue and finance costs.
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 43 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group operates a group personal pension plan for staff, and
prior to 30 June 2007 also operated a small self administered
pension plan for the controlling directors.  Payments to these
defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an
expense as they fall due.
Bonuses payable to employees
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for staff bonuses
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable
and deferred tax.  The tax currently payable is based on taxable
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable
profits will be available against which deductible temporary
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial
recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in
a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates,
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply
in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.  Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation
authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and
liabilities on a net basis.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation
as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be
required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the
directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present
value where the effect is material. 
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based
Payment to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November
2002 that were unvested at 1 July 2005.  
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair
value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions)
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of
the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non
market-based vesting conditions. Fair value is measured by use of
the Black Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural
considerations.  Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were
not listed on a stock exchange and therefore in the absence of a
readily available market price for the shares, the share price was
based on the market value agreed with H M Revenue and Customs
and share price volatility was estimated as the average of the
volatility applying to a comparable group of listed companies.  No
share options have yet been granted since 15 May 2007.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is
recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance
sheet date for cash-settled, share-based payments.
45
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 44 46
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to
the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.  Rentals
payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  Benefits received and
receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.  Depreciation is
provided, where material, on all tangible fixed assets at rates
calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual
value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its
estimated useful life as follows:
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
Leasehold property tenants’ fixtures over the life of the lease
Office equipment over 10 years
Computer equipment and software over 3 to 4 years
Motor vehicles over 4 years
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising
on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the
difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of
the asset and is recognised in income.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill
Other intangible assets comprise computer software which is stated
at cost less amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible fixed
assets excluding goodwill at rates calculated to write off the cost or
valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a
straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Computer software over 3 to 4 years
The carrying values of computer software are reviewed for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising
on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the
difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of
the asset and is recognised in income.
Website development design and content development costs are
capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an
enduring asset, which delivers benefits at least as great as the
amount capitalised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of
the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the asset belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair
value less costs to sell and value in use.  An intangible asset with an
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever
there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an
expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-
valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation decrease.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that
the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain
balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other
counterparties are included as debtors.
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 45 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
47
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date
where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the
timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially
measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The Group’s available-for-sale investments have been included at
fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the
revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation
reserve, as shown in note 24, until sale when the cumulative gain
or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot
be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price or
other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are
included at cost, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon
disposal of the investment. 
Investments which are designated as being held at fair value
through profit or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted
market price of the listed investment, with any gain or loss reported
within the income statement.  An investment is classified in this
category if it is held principally for the purpose of selling in the
short term.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to
an insignificant risk of changes in value.  Included within cash
balances are amounts held on client settlement accounts as shown
in note 18.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at fair value.  In accordance with
market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange
member firms and other counterparties are included as creditors.
3. Key sources of judgements and 
estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount
of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and
assumptions, which are based on management’s best judgement at
the date of preparation of the financial statements, deviate from
actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be
modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances
change. The areas where a higher degree of judgement or
complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are
significant to the consolidated financial statements, are discussed
below.
Share based payments
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a
stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price
existed for the shares.  The share price of share option awards
granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market
value agreed with H.M. Revenue and Customs using an earnings
multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies.  Share
price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility
experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies.  The
expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability,
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.  The
Company has been required to make various valuation assumptions
in order to account for share based payments. These are explained
fully in note 32.  Since 15 May 2007, a quoted market price has
been available for the Company’s shares although no share options
have been granted since that date.
Indemnity provision
The indemnity provision represents management’s best estimate of
the Group’s liability to policy lapses resulting in indemnity
commission claw-backs.  The calculation is based on the volume of
indemnified commission and on past experience of policy
cancellation. 
Staff costs
Included in staff costs is an estimate of the future liability for
bonuses and other employee incentive schemes which have been
earned but not paid. 
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 46 4. Revenue
Revenue represents commission receivable from financial services provided to clients, interest on settlement accounts and management
fees charged to clients.  It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax.  An analysis of the Group’s revenue is
as follows:
5. Business and geographical segments
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different
from those of other business segments. The Group is currently organised into different operating divisions, however the nature of the
services provided, the regulatory environment, the customer base and distribution channels for each division are the same so that for the
purposes of IAS14 Segment Reporting, the consolidated entity operates in one business segment. The principal activity of the Group is
the provision of investment management services.  As the Group only operates in one business segment, no additional business segmental
analysis has been shown.
All business activities are located within the UK and therefore the Group operates in a single geographical segment.
6. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
Exceptional items
Exceptional administrative expenses comprise:
Exceptional items are those significant items that fall within the activities of the Group which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size
or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. 
Additional directors’ remuneration
On 5 April 2007, bonuses totalling £23.95 million (total cost £27,016,000 including national insurance) were awarded to certain
executive directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
Revenue from services:
87,509 66,132 Fees and commission income
8,832 5,063 Interest and similar income
2,428 2,265
98,769 73,460
Subscriptions and sundry charges
Total operating income
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
891 615 Depreciation of owned plant and equipment
89 59 Depreciation of other intangible assets
- 13 Impairment of goodwill
673 585 Operating lease rentals payable - property
61,523 47,667 Staff costs (see note 7)
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
27,016 19,627 Additional directors’ remuneration
2,612 - Flotation costs
48
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 47 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
6. Profit for the year (continued)
Flotation costs 
Costs relating to the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange comprise legal and professional fees of £2,612,000.  
Auditors’ remuneration
The analysis of auditors' remuneration is as follows: 
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages,
which may be linked to the creation of long-term shareholder value. Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the
employment market generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. All employees are eligible to be considered for
an annual discretionary bonus. In addition to cash bonuses, the Group operates various share based remuneration schemes as described in
note 32.
7. Staff costs
The average number of employees of the Group (including executive directors) was:
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
6 6 Audit fees: fees payable for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts
59 58 Audit fees: fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group:
50 2 Tax advisory services
408 - Corporate finance services 
51 -
509 2
Other advisory services related to flotation, including interim non statutory audit
Total non-audit fees
Year ended 
30 June 2006
No.
Year ended 
30 June 2007
No.
456 381 Operating and support functions
165 132
621 513
61,523 47,667
Administrative functions
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
54,331 41,787 Wages and salaries
6,466 4,877
508
218 342
661
Social security costs
Share based payments expense
Other pension costs 
49
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:19  Page 48 Corporation tax is calculated at 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the years.
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, certain tax amounts have been charged directly to equity as follows:
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
It is expected that the ongoing effective tax rate will trend to a rate approximating to the standard UK corporation tax rate (currently
30%, 28% from 1 April 2008) in the medium term.  During the year ended 30 June 2007 the effective tax rate has been just above 30%
primarily due to the disallowable flotation costs.  A deferred tax asset in respect of future share option deductions has been recognised
based on the Company’s share price as at 30 June 2007.  
8. Investment revenue
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
1,228 993 Interest on bank deposits
202 1,926
1,430 2,919
Dividends from equity investment
9. Other gains and losses Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
- 35 Profit on disposal of associated undertaking
11,917 -
11,917 35
Gain on disposal of investments
10.  Tax
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
8,241 2,385 Current tax
(806) (801)
7,435 1,584
Deferred tax (note 19)
£’000 £’000
(3,352) (44) Deferred tax relating to share based payments (note 28)
684 1,218
(2,308) -
1,293 -
(3,683) 1,174
Deferred tax on revaluation of the Group’s available for sale investments (note 24)
Current tax relief on exercise of share options (note 28)
Current tax on gain on disposal of shares held by EBT (note 27)
50
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 49 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Dividend per share figures are restated to reflect the share restructuring on 10 April 2007 as described in note 32.
On 26 April 2007 an interim dividend of 3.0 pence per share was proposed and was paid on 21 May 2007 to shareholders on the register
as at 1 May 2007.  No final dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 June 2007, as advised by the directors prior to flotation.
Under an arrangement dated 30 June 1997 the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust, which held the following number of
ordinary shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc at the date shown, has agreed to waive all dividends. 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
10.  Tax (continued)
Factors affecting future tax charge
A number of changes to the UK tax system were announced in the March 2007 Budget Statement and are expected to be enacted in the
2007 and 2008 Finance Acts.  The changes relating to the reduction in corporation tax rates from 30% to 28%, have been substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are included in these financial statements.
Any increase or decrease to the Company’s share price will impact the amount of tax deduction available in future years on the value of
shares acquired by staff under share incentive schemes.  
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
11.  Dividends
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
24,390 7,597 Profit before tax from continuing operations   
7,317 2,279
30% 30%
Tax 
- at the UK corporation tax rate of  
(672) (206) Disallowed/(non-taxable) items
784 - Disallowed flotation costs
110 74 Effect of adjustments relating to prior years
2 (10) Utilisation of small company rate and rate applicable to trusts
- 26 Surplus trading losses of subsidiary
(61) - Impact of change in tax rate
(45) (579) Dividend income not subject to tax
7,435 1,584 Tax expense for the year
30% 21% Effective tax rate
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
13,298 1,560 First interim dividend of 3.0p (2006: 0.36p) per share
- 4,727 Special interim dividend of 1.09p per share
- 1,576
13,298 7,863
Final dividend per share of £nil (2006: 0.36p) 
51
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 50 Earnings (all from continuing operations)
Number of shares
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
Number Number
16,955 6,013 Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
29,628 19,627 Exceptional administrative expenses
(11,917) (35)
(4,539) (5,888)
Other gains and losses
Tax on exceptional administrative expenses and other gains and losses
30,127 19,717 Earnings for the purposes of underlying basic and underlying diluted earnings per share 
474,318,325 474,318,325 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share, being total issued share capital
9,721,460 34,111,825 Shares held by HL EBT which have not vested unconditionally with employees
Pence Pence
6.5 4.5 Underlying basic earnings per share
6.4 4.2 Underlying diluted earnings per share 
464,596,865 440,206,500 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share
Year ended 
30 June 2006
Year ended 
30 June 2007
14,038,685 40,986,825 Number of shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust
2.96% 8.64% Representing % of called-up share capital
12.  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, including ordinary shares held in the EBT reserve which have not vested
unconditionally with employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all
dilutive potential ordinary shares.  
Underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share are calculated as for basic and diluted earnings per share,
but using an adjusted earnings figure such that the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company is stated before exceptional
expenses and other gains and losses. The directors consider that the underlying earnings per share represent a more consistent measure of
underlying performance. 
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used for the calculation of earnings per share has been adjusted to show the impact of
the subdivision of each ordinary share of 10 pence into 25 ordinary shares of 0.4 pence and a 10 for 1 bonus issue which took place on 10
April 2007 as described in note 22.
52
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
11.  Dividends (continued)
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 51 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
13.  Goodwill - Group
14.  Other intangible assets - Group
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
1,450 1,437 At beginning of year
- 13 Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary
117 104 At beginning of year
- 13 Impairment losses for the year
1,450 1,450 At end of year
117 117 At end of year
1,333 1,333 At end of year
Accumulated impairment losses
Carrying amount
£’000
1,301
16
At 1 July 2005
Additions
1,317
53
At 1 July 2006
Additions
Cost
1,161
59
At 1 July 2005
1,370 At 30 June 2007
1,289 At 30 June 2007
Charge
1,220
69
At 1 July 2006
Charge
Amortisation
97
81
At 1 July 2006
At 30 June 2007
Carrying amount
Cost
Computer Software
The net carrying value of goodwill relates entirely to the acquisition of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited.  The Group tests
goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amount of
goodwill is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the
discount rates and growth rates during the period.  The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets
approved by management extrapolated based on an estimated long term industry growth rate of 3%.  Management estimates discount
rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to this subsidiary. The
pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 9.8%.
53
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 52 Total
£’000
Motor
Vehicles
£’000
Fixtures, fittings,
plant and equipment
£’000
2,949 3,000 At 1 July 2005
Cost or valuation
830 830
51
- Additions
3,779 3,830 At 1 July 2006
1,431 1,431
51
2,091 2,111 At 1 July 2006 20
883 891 Charge 8
- (17) Disposals (17)
- Additions
- (27) (27) Disposals
5,210 5,234 At 30 June 2007 24
2,974 2,985 At 30 June 2007 11
1,484 1,496 At 1 July 2005
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
607 615
12
8 Charge
1,688 1,719 At 1 July 2006
Carrying amount
2,236 2,249
31
13 At 30 June 2007
15.  Property, plant and equipment – Group
Fixtures, fittings,
plant and equipment
£’000
1,380
-
At 1 July 2005
Additions
Cost or valuation
1,380
2
At 1 July 2006
Additions
1,382 At 30 June 2007
15.  Property, plant and equipment – Company 
54
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 53 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
Fixtures, fittings,
plant and equipment
£’000
687
182
At 1 July 2005
Charge
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Carrying amount
Nature of business Name of company Shares held
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Nominees Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Trustees Ltd
Library Information Services Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Ltd
Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Ltd
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Unit trust and equity broking, investment fund management,
life and pensions
Stockbroking
Unit Trust Management
Pension broking
Nominee services
Trustee of the Vantage SIPP
Data provider
Trustee of  the Employee Benefit Trust
Trustee of  the Share Incentive Plan
869
175
At 1 July 2006
Charge
511
338
At 1 July 2006
At 30 June 2007
1,044 At 30 June 2007
15.  Property, plant and equipment – Company (continued)
16.  Subsidiaries
17.  Investments - Group
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in the UK, is shown below.
The Group also owns 100% of  Broker Focus Ltd, a software development company which has not traded during 2007 and there are no
plans for the company to trade.  Broker Focus Ltd is incorporated in Dublin.
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
13,352 9,243 At beginning of year
1,886 4,104
212 68
- (13)
(14,281) (50)
Revaluation surplus transfer to equity (note 24)
Net increase in the value of short term investments
Elimination of subsidiary on consolidation
Disposals 
1,169 13,352 At end of year 
1,169 13,352 Current asset investments
55
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 54 Current asset investments include the following:
Investments include the following:
£428,000 (2006: £215,000) of investments are classified as held at fair value through profit and loss and £741,000 (2006: £13,137,000)
are classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably
calculated, with the revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve as shown in note 24, until sale when the
cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market
price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon
disposal of the investment. 
£478,000 (2006: £4,649,000) of investments are classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair
value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve as
shown in note 24, until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably
calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost, with a
fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
17.  Investments - Group (continued)
17.  Investments - Company
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
428 11,248 UK listed securities valued at quoted market price
741 2,104
1,169 13,352
Unlisted securities valued at cost
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
6,801 6,758 At beginning of period
85 93
(4,256) (50)
Revaluation surplus transfer to equity (note 24)
Disposals
2,630 6,801 At end of year
2,152 2,152 Non - current asset investments
478 4,649
2,630 6,801
Current asset investments
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
- 2,807 UK listed securities valued at quoted market price
478 1,842
2,152 2,152
2,630 6,801
Unlisted securities valued at cost
Non current assets - investments in subsidiaries valued at cost less impairment
56
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 55 At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
488 14,014 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT
At 30 June
2007
£’000
At 30 June
2006
£’000
- -
- - Trade receivables 45,153 39,693
- - Other receivables 368 792
2,725 1,752 Corporation tax debtor - 1,914
253 320 Prepayments 6,012 5,676
3,466 16,086 51,533 48,075
Trade and other receivables 
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
103 (6,300) Cash and cash equivalents
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
48,092 13,745
Comprising: 
- - Restricted cash - client settlement account balances
Restricted cash - balances held by EBT
Group cash and cash equivalent balances
15,163 4,393
- - 12,370 157
103 (6,300) 20,559 9,195
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain
balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included in debtors.  Trade receivables include £36.3
million (2006: £33.7 million) of counterparty balances.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and institutional cash funds with near-instant access.  Included in cash and
cash equivalents are amounts of cash held on client settlement accounts as shown above.  
Financial risk management
Hargreaves Lansdown’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.  No hedging
transactions have taken place during the years presented.   The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and
other receivables and investments.
Interest rate risk
The Group has no external borrowings and as such is not exposed to interest rate or refinancing risk on borrowings.  Cash at bank earns
interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates in the relevant currency.  Short term deposits are also made for varying periods
of between one day and six months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective fixed
term deposit rates.
Foreign exchange translation and transaction risk
With substantially all of the Group's businesses located within the UK, and therefore with minimal net assets and transactions
denominated in foreign currencies, the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange translation or transaction risk and as such
does not hedge any foreign current assets or liabilities. 
Price risk
The Group is exposed to equity security price risk on investments held by the Group.  As a main source of income is based on the value of
client assets held, the Group is also exposed to security price risk on investments held by clients.  
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains cash balances on short term deposit to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds for operations.
18.  Other financial assets
57
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 56 Carrying amount and fair value 
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, and available for sale financial assets where there is
a quoted market price.  Investments in equity instruments which do not have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair
value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk as credit exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and
customers.  Within the Group’s Stockbroking operation, credit risk is minimised by collateral held in Group nominee companies.
Financial Instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Board and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a
long term rating of AA- or better.  
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and generally represents balances due from other financial
institutions.  The credit risk is therefore considered to be limited.  The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for
doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is
evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Cash is mainly held at Lloyds TSB Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland and the Bank of Scotland in the UK. The credit risk on liquid funds is
limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. The Group carries
out at least an annual review of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings.    
Stockbroking operations
The Group acts as a private client investment manager, unit trust manager and agency stockbroker and undertakes only minimal trading
on its own behalf.  Therefore the Group does not hold derivatives or other financial instruments other than cash and securities.
The Group deals in foreign currencies on a matched basis on behalf of clients, limiting foreign exchange exposure.  
19.  Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets have not been offset with deferred tax liabilities due to the expectation that the balances will reverse in different
accounting years, hence the deferred tax provision is reported separately as shown below:   
At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
- (414) Deferred tax liabilities
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
- (2,882)
440 30 Deferred tax assets 4,978 820
440 (384) Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 4,978 (2,062)
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior
reporting years.
18. Financial risk management (continued)
58
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 57 Non-current payables - Other payables
20.  Other financial liabilities
Total
£’000
Other deductible
temporary
differences 
£’000
378 1,689 At 1 July 2005
Charge/(credit) to income
Charge/(credit) to equity
Share based
payments 
£’000
Revaluation of
available for sale
investments 
£’000
Accelerated
tax depreciation
£’000 Group
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
(155) 1,664 (198)
(600) (801) (4) - (197)
- 1,174 - 1,218 (44)
- 313 At 1 July 2005
Charge/(credit) to income
Charge/(credit) to equity
(86) 399 -
- 56 56 - -
- 15 - 15 -
(222) 2,062 At 1 July 2006
Recycled from equity to income
Charge/(credit) to income
(159) 2,882 (439)
(347) (4,978) At 30 June 2007 (510) - (4,121)
- 384 At 1 July 2006 (30) 414 -
- (440) At 30 June 2007 (440) - -
- (3,566) - (3,566) -
(125) (806) (351) - (330)
Charge/(credit) to equity - (2,668) - 684 (3,352)
Recycled from equity to income
Charge/(credit) to income
- (431) - (431) -
- (410) (410) - -
Charge/(credit) to equity - 17 - 17 -
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Company Group
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
Current payables
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
1,765 1,021 Amounts payable to subsidiaries - -
- - Trade payables 51,423 37,321
81 - Social security and other taxes 3,408 3,632
632 7 Other payables 7,718 14,431
404 - Accruals and deferred income 1,427 2,226
2,882 1,028 63,976 57,610
- - 281 665
Trade and other payables
59
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included in
creditors.  Trade payables include £50.4 million (2006: £36.2 million) of counterparty balances.  Accruals and other payables principally
comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. 
19.  Deferred tax (continued)
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 58 21.  Provisions - Group
Included within non-current liabilities:
The indemnity provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to repay commission received on indemnity
terms.  The provision is based on past experience and the volume of indemnified commission, and is expected to be utilised over
indemnity periods of up to 4 years. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.  
On 10 April 2007 new articles of association of the Company were adopted replacing the articles adopted on 30 January 2007.  On the
same date the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from £250,000 to £2,100,000 by the creation of 462,500,000
additional ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each, each ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each in
the capital of the Company.
On 10 April 2007 a capitalisation issue of 10 shares for every 1 share took place following a sub-division of the ordinary shares of 10
pence each into 25 ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each.  £1,724,795 of the amount standing to the credit of the share premium account of
the Company was applied in paying up in full the new ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each allotted at par. The new ordinary shares rank in
all respects pari passu with the existing issued ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each in the capital of the Company.  Following the
capitalisation issue each shareholder holds 275 shares for every one previously held and total issued share capital comprises 474,318,625
ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each.
Commission on 
indemnity terms
£’000
288
227
At 1 July 2005
Charged/(utilised) during year
515
14
At 1 July 2006
Charged/(utilised) during year
529 At 30 June 2007
22.  Share capital
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
Authorised:
2,100 250 525,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.4p each (2006: 2,500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each)
Issued and fully paid:
1,897 172
Shares Shares
Ordinary shares of 0.4p (2006: 10p) each 
Issued and fully paid:
474,318,625 1,724,795 Number of ordinary shares of 0.4p (2006: 10p) each 
60
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 59 23.  Share premium account – Company and Group
24.       Investment revaluation reserve
25.  Capital redemption reserve – Company and Group
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
1,733 1,733
(1,725) -
Balance at beginning of year
Utilisation of share premium account (note 22)
8 1,733 Balance at end of year
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
12 12 Balance at beginning and at end of year
This reserve represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the increase in fair value of available for sale investments held by the Group, net of
deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company's own shares. 
26.  Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve - Group
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
(19,809) (469) Balance at beginning of year
- (19,667) Shares acquired in the year
12,257 327 Shares sold 
(7,552) (19,809) Balance at end of year
The Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve represents the cost of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc purchased in the
market and held by the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options
schemes (see note 32).
At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
1,393 1,315 Balance at beginning of year 7,149 4,263
85 93 Increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments 1,886 4,104
(17) (15) Deferred tax effect of increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments (684) (1,218)
(1,892) - Disposal of available-for-sale investments (11,917) -
431 - Tax on disposal of available-for-sale investments 3,566 -
- 1,393 Balance at end of year - 7,149
61
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 60 27.  EBT reserve - Group
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
(63) -
13,386 (63)
Balance at beginning of year
Gain/(loss) on sale of shares by EBT 
(1,293) - Tax on sale of shares by EBT
12,030 (63) Balance at end of year
The EBT reserve represents the cumulative gain/(loss) on disposal of investments held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit
Trust (“the EBT”).  The reserve is not distributable by the Company as the assets and liabilities of the EBT are subject to management by
the Trustees in accordance with the EBT trust deed.
28.  Share option reserve - Group
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
914 209
508 661
Balance at beginning of year
Share based payments expense
3,352 44 Deferred tax effect of share based payments
2,308 - Tax relief on exercise of share options
7,082 914 Balance at end of year
This distributable reserve represents the effect of share based payments and associated deferred tax.
29.  Retained earnings
At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
12,376 1,354 Balance at beginning of year 27,361 29,211
(13,298) (7,863) Dividends paid (13,298) (7,863)
3,100 18,885 Net profit for the period 16,955 6,013
2,178 12,376 Balance at end of year 31,018 27,361
62
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 61 30.  Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
At 30 June
2006
£’000
Company Group
At 30 June
2007
£’000
At 30 June
2006
£’000
At 30 June
2007
£’000
3,100 18,885 Profit for the year after tax 16,955 6,013
(7,223) (15,253) Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 12,546 6,218
8,223 (31,134) Cash generated by operations 12,900 13,598
7,248 (32,884) Net cash from operating activities 7,741 6,776
Adjustments for:
(7,635) (34,354) Investment revenues (1,430) (2,919)
(2,456) (22) Other gains and losses
Income tax expense
Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Depreciation of plant and equipment
Depreciation of intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill
Share-based payment expense
Increase in provisions
(11,917) (35)
(407) 56 7,435 1,584
- - 10 -
175 182 897 615
- - 69 59
- - - 13
- - 508 661
- - 19 227
(Increase)/decrease in receivables 13,593 (12,912) (5,625) (12,904)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 1,853 (2,969) 5,979 20,284
Income taxes paid (975) (1,750) (5,159) (6,822)
31.  Operating lease arrangements
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
673 585 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year
681 618 Within one year
396 636 In the second to fifth years inclusive
1,077 1,254 Total minimum lease payments
The Group as lessee
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties. The Group leases various offices
under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation values and renewal rights. 
63
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 62 32.  Share based payments
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
30 June 2006 30 June 2007
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
Share 
options
No.
- Outstanding at beginning of year
Granted during the year
Forfeited during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
SIP
- - -
- 23.5 - 983,950
- 23.5 - (24,200)
- 23.5 - 959,750
Exercisable at the end of the year - - - -
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group seeks to facilitate significant equity ownership by employees, principally through schemes which encourage and assist the
purchase of the Group’s shares.
The Group operates three share option plans: the 1999 Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”), the Hargreaves
Lansdown plc Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”), and the Hargreaves Lansdown Company Share Option (2000) Scheme (the “Executive
Option Scheme").
Awards granted under the Employee SAYE scheme vest over five years. Awards granted under the Employee Share Incentive Plan
vest over a three-year period.  Awards granted under the Executive Option Scheme vest between nil and ten years.  Options are
exercisable at a price equal to the HMRC approved market value of the Company’s shares on the date of grant.  Options are forfeited
if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.  
The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 which had not vested
by 1 July 2005. They have not been applied to any grants made prior to 7 November 2002.
The share options and share awards outstanding during the years presented have been restated to reflect the share restructuring on
10 April 2007 as described in note 22, and are as follows:
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
3.6 Outstanding at beginning of year
Forfeited during the year
Exercised during the year
Granted during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
SAYE
3.6 12,661,825 7,679,375
3.6 54.5 (752,125) (8,800)
3.6 3.6 (4,230,325) (3,843,400)
- 54.5 - 5,040,750
3.6 10.4 76,793,75 8,867,925
Exercisable at the end of the year - 3.6 - 274,725
3.6 Outstanding at beginning of year
Forfeited during the period
Granted during the year
Exercised during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
Executive Option Scheme
54.5 2,887,500 6,875,000
- 54.5 - (687,500)
54.5 62.8 6,875,000 7,287,500
3.6 58.3 (2,887,500) (9,432,500)
54.5 60.5 6,875,000 4,042,500
Exercisable at the end of the year 54.5 60.5 6,875,000 4,042,500
64
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 63 32.  Share based payments (continued)
The share options outstanding at the end of each year have exercise prices and expected remaining lives as follows:
33.  Events after the balance sheet date
Share options
On 7 September 2007, 1,650,000 executive share options were exercised at weighted average price of 56.1 pence per share.  The options
were satisfied by a transfer of shares from the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust.
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year has been estimated by the Black Scholes methodology.   
The principal assumptions required by the methodology were as follows:
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price existed
for the shares.  The share price of share option awards granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market value agreed with
H.M. Revenue and Customs using an earnings multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies.  Similarly, share price
volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies.  The expected life used in
the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and
behavioural considerations.  Since 15 May 2007, a quoted market price has been available for the company’s shares although no share
options have been granted since that date.
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions are shown in note 7.
Weighted average
expected 
remaining life
30 June 2006 30 June 2007
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average
expected 
remaining life
Share 
options
No.
1.5 years 2.7 to 3.6
23.5
54.5
63.6
Option exercise price range (pence)
0.9 years 7,679,375 3,835,975
- 2.3 years - 959,750
2.0 years 4.0 years 6,875,000 6,406,950
- 0.9 years - 2,667,500
1.7 years 2.0 years 14,554,375 13,870,175
At 30 June
2006
At 30 June
2007
66.8p 23.5p Weighted average share price
3.00% 3.00% Expected dividend yields
3.6p 3.6p
32% 32%
5.00% 5.00%
3 years 1.5 years 
Weighted average exercise price
Expected volatility
Risk-free rate
Expected life
SAYE
54.5 54.5
32% 32%
5.00% 5.00%
1.1 years 1.7 years 
Weighted average exercise price
Expected volatility
Risk-free rate
Expected life
Executive scheme
23.5 23.5
32% 32%
5.00% 5.00%
2.3 years 2.8 years 
Weighted average exercise price
Expected volatility
Risk-free rate
Expected life
SIP
65
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 64 The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and with its directors and members of the Executive Committee (the “key
management personnel”). Transactions between the Group and its key management personnel are disclosed below.  Details of
transactions between the Group and other related parties are also disclosed below.  Transactions between the Company and its
subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.    
Trading transactions
The Group entered into the following transactions with directors and related parties who are not members of the Group:
During the years ending 30 June 2006 and 30 June 2007 the Group has been party to a lease with P K Hargreaves and S P Lansdown,
who are both directors of the Company, for the rental of the head office premises at Kendal House at an annual rental of £302,400.  No
amount was outstanding at any year end.
During the years ending 30 June 2006 and 30 June 2007 the Group has provided a range of investment services to shareholders,
directors and staff on normal third party business terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration, excluding national insurance costs, of the key management personnel of the Group being those personnel who were
either a member of the Board of the Company or of a subsidiary company during the relevant year shown below, is set out below in
aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.  
Included within the above are the following amounts paid to directors of the Company who served during the relevant year.  Full details
of directors’ remuneration is shown in the Remuneration Committee report. 
34.  Related party transactions
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
29,680 22,041
21 189
Short-term employee benefits
Defined contribution pension costs
359 654 Share-based payment
30,060 22,884
Year ended 
30 June 2006
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
3,326 3,558
22,404 17,400
Wages and salaries, excluding national insurance costs
Exceptional bonus payments (see note 6), excluding national insurance costs
9 185
1,752 253
10,177 9,135
- 123
8 8
Pension contributions
160 654
25,899 21,797
Share-based payment
Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options
Emoluments of the highest paid director
Pension contributions of the highest paid director
Number of directors who were members of money purchase pension schemes
66
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
In adopting IFRS for the first time within these IFRS statutory accounts for the year ended 30 June 2007, the Company and the Group
have complied with IFRS 1 ‘First Time Adoption of IFRS’, which states that a company should use the same accounting policies in its
opening IFRS balance sheet and throughout all periods presented in its first IFRS financial statements.  The accounting policies set out in
note 2 have been applied for all periods presented.
An explanation of how the transition from previous GAAP to IFRS has affected the Company’s and the Group’s financial position,
financial performance and cash flows is set out below. 
35.  Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 65 35.  Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued)
Explanation of transition to IFRSs for the Company
The year ended 30 June 2007 is the first period for which the Company has elected to present its financial statements under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The date of transition to IFRS was 1 July 2005 being the first day of the 2006 financial year shown
in the comparative information.
In preparing the 2006 comparative information, the Company has adjusted amounts previously reported under UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’).  The significant IFRS accounting policies are the same as for the Group which are set out in note 2.
Effect of IFRS on the UK GAAP company balance sheet and reconciliation of equity as at 30 June 2006.
a) SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities requires that the assets and liabilities of The Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit
Trust (“EBT”) are consolidated within the Group accounts of Hargreaves Lansdown plc if the trust is controlled by the sponsor of the
EBT, being Hargreaves Lansdown plc.   Accordingly, under IFRS the assets and liabilities of the EBT are not aggregated within the
parent company accounts, but are consolidated within the Group accounts.  Previously under UK GAAP the assets and liabilities of the
EBT were aggregated within the parent company accounts.
b) Available-for-sale investments: Under IAS 39, certain fixed asset investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are recognised
and measured at fair value with adjustments to fair value reflected directly in equity. The treatment was the same under UK GAAP during
2006.  Prior to 2006, under UK GAAP fixed asset investments were recognised and measured at cost less any permanent diminution in
value.  
c) Income tax – Under IAS 12, deferred tax is provided on all IFRS temporary differences which will reverse.  The deferred tax
adjustment relates to a tax liability arising on the revaluation gains of available-for-sale investments.
The overall effect for the Company results from, firstly, the derecognition of the assets and liabilities of the EBT under IFRS where the
impact is to increase both equity shareholders’ funds and net assets by £13,847,000 (1 July 2005: decrease by £120,000).  Secondly, the
revaluation of available-for-sale investments under IFRS of £1,714,000 as at 1 July 2005 and the related deferred tax impact of £414,000
at 30 June 2006 (1 July 2005: £399,000).  These restatements have a net effect of increasing both net assets and equity shareholders’
funds by £13,433,000 (1 July 2005: £1,195,000). 
There are no differences between the profit recorded by the Company under IFRS and that previously recorded under UK GAAP for the
year ended 30 June 2006.
Explanation of transition to IFRSs for the Group
The year ended 30 June 2007 is the first period for which the Group is required to present its financial statements under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The date of transition to IFRS was 1 July 2005 being the first day of the 2006 financial year shown
in the comparative information.
IFRS 1 contains a number of exemptions which companies are permitted to apply. The Group has elected:
 to present comparative information in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.  This means that certain investments previously carried at historic cost under
UK GAAP are now carried in the balance sheet at fair value;
 not to restate business combinations arising prior to the IFRS transition date of 1 July 2005.  The carrying amount of goodwill in the
UK GAAP balance sheet as at 30 June 2005 has accordingly been brought forward without adjustment;
 to apply IFRS 2 (Share based payments) to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 July
2005.  Share options granted prior to 7 November 2002 which have vested by the transition date do not have to be restated under
IFRS.  
The principal adjustments made to the Group financial statements are as follows:
(i) IFRS reclassifications: IFRS has different presentation and disclosure requirements to UK GAAP and conversion to IFRS has involved
a number of changes to the presentation of items within the financial statements although these changes have no net change to
reported profits. The main reclassifications under IFRS are as follows:
a) Under UK GAAP, purchased software was previously classified as a tangible fixed asset whereas under IFRS these assets are now
classified as intangible (2006: £97,000, 2005: £140,000 net book value).  
b) Available-for-sale investments have been reported as current assets whereas previously they were shown as fixed assets (2006:
£2,105,000; 2005: £9,095,000).
c) Certain administrative expenses have been classified as exceptional.  Details are shown in note 6.
67
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 66 35.  Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued)
(ii) Income taxes: Under IAS 12, deferred tax is provided on all IFRS temporary differences which will reverse.  The deferred tax adjustments
primarily relate to a tax liability arising on the revaluation gains of available for sale investments (30 June 2006: £2,882,000; 30 June 2005:
£1,664,000) and a deferred tax asset arising from tax relief on share option gains (30 June 2006: £439,000; 30 June 2005: £198,000)
(iii)Employee benefits: Holiday pay - IFRS requires short-term accumulating benefits such as holiday pay entitlements to be accrued over
the period in which the entitlement is earned. There was a £67,000 impact on the income statement in 2006 together with an
additional liability of £238,000 recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 June 2006 (2005: £171,000). 
(iv) IFRS 2 Share-based payment: The Group has applied IFRS 2 to the share arrangements by which employees have been granted options
to purchase shares in the Company.  The charge to the income statement represents the fair value of these arrangements calculated using
an appropriate option-pricing model adjusted for forfeits and where applicable non-market performance conditions. The charge has been
spread over the period from the date of grant of options to the date when the shares vest unconditionally adjusted to reflect actual and
expected leavers and the satisfaction of performance conditions. Under UK GAAP before 2007 there was no charge made in the profit and
loss account for these arrangements.  During 2006 there was an expense of £661,000 recognised in the income statement but no overall
impact on the balance sheet as the expense was offset by a corresponding adjustment of £661,000 to equity through reserves (2005: £14,000)
(v) Goodwill: Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life. Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised but is
instead subject to an annual impairment test. As a consequence of this, the goodwill amortisation included in the 2006 UK GAAP
balance sheet of £200,000 has been reversed (2005: £133,000).
(vi) Available for sale investments: Under IAS 39, fixed asset investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are recognised and
measured at fair value with adjustments to fair value reflected directly in equity. The treatment was the same under UK GAAP during
2006.  Prior to 2006, under UK GAAP fixed asset investments were recognised and measured at cost less any permanent diminution
in value.  The carrying value of available for sale investments at 30 June 2005 have increased by £5,927,000 in the IFRS balance sheet
with a corresponding increase of £5,927,000 to the investment revaluation reserve.
IFRS
Goodwill 
IFRS 3 (v)
Share based
payments
IFRS 2 (iv)
Employee
benefits
IAS 19 (iii)
Income taxes
IAS 12
(ii)
IFRS 
Reclassifications
(i)
UK GAAP
£’000
73,460
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
73,460
(19,627) - - - - (19,627) -
(49,190) 67 (661) (67) - 19,191 (67,720)
(68,817) 67 (661) (67) -
35
(436)
8,258
(1,802)
6,456
-
436
-
-
-
-
-
-
218
218
-
-
(67)
-
(67)
-
-
(661)
-
(661)
-
-
67
-
67
35
-
7,597
(1,584)
6,013
(436) (67,720)
Continuing operations
Revenue
Admin. expenses
Exceptional admin. expenses
Total admin. expenses 
4,643 67 (661) (67) - (436) 5,740 Operating profit
2,919 - - - - - 2,919 Investment revenue
Other gains and losses
Finance costs
Profit before tax
Tax
Profit for the period
Reconciliation of the Group profit and loss account under UK GAAP to the Group income statement under IFRS for the year ended 30
June 2006
68
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 67 35.  Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued)
Reconciliation of the Group balance sheet and total equity under UK GAAP to IFRS at 30 June 2006.
IFRS
Goodwill 
IFRS 3 (v)
Share based
payments
IFRS 2 (iv)
Employee
benefits
IAS 19 (iii)
Income taxes
IAS 12
(ii)
IFRS 
Reclassifications
(i)
UK GAAP
£’000
1,333
£’000
200
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
1,133
1,719 - - - - (97) 1,816
97 - - - - 97 -
- - - - - (2,105) 2,105
Non-current assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investments
Deferred tax assets 820 - - - 820 - -
3,969 200 - - 820 (2,105) 5,054
48,075 - - - - (304) 48,379
13,745 - - - - - 13,745
13,352 - - - - 2,105 11,247
75,172 - - - - 1,801 73,371
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 
Investments
79,141 200 - - 820 (304) 78,425 Total assets
17,562 - - (238) - 1,801 15,999 Net current assets
61,672 - - 238 3,190 (304) 58,548 Total liabilities
17,469 200 - (238) (2,370) - 19,877 Net assets
57,610 - - 238 - - 57,372
57,610 - - 238 - - 57,372
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
2,882 - - - 3,190 (308) -
4,062 - - - 3,190 (304) 1,176
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
665 - - - - - 665 Trade and other payables
515 - - 238 - 4 511 Provisions
172 - - - - - 172
1,733 - - - - - 1,733
7,149 - - - (2,882) - 10,031
12 - - - - - 12
(63) - - - - - (63)
(19,809) - - - - - (19,809)
914 - 675 - 239 - -
27,361 200 (675) (238) 273 - 27,801
Equity
Share capital
Share premium account
Revaluation reserve
Capital red. reserve
EBT Reserve
Shares held by EBT res.
Share option reserve
Retained earnings
17,469 200 - (238) (2,370) - 19,877 Total equity
69
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:20  Page 68 35. Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued)
Reconciliation of the Group balance sheet and total equity under UK GAAP to IFRS at 1 July 2005
IFRS
Goodwill 
IFRS 3 
(v)
Share based
payments
IFRS 2 (iv)
Employee
benefits
IAS 19 (iii)
Available for
sale investments
(vi)
IFRS 
Reclassifica
-tions (i)
UK 
GAAP
£’000
1,333
£’000
133
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
-
£’000
1,200
1,504 - - - - (140) 1,644
140 - - - - 140 -
- - - - - (9,095) 3,168
Non-current assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investments
Deferred tax assets 353 - - - 353 - -
3,330 133 - - 353
Income taxes
IAS 12
(ii)
£’000
-
-
-
5,927
-
5,927 (9,095) 6,012
33,254 - - - - - 33,254
9,243 - - - - 9,095 148
32,147 - - - - - 32,147
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 
Investments
74,644 - - - -
-
-
77,974 133 - - 353 - 71,561 Total assets 5,927
34,640 - - (171) - 9,095 25,716 Net current assets -
-
- 9,095 65,549
2,042 - - - 1,767 - 275
288 - - - - - 288
509 - - - - - 509
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Trade and other payables
Provisions
2,839 - - - 1,767
-
172 - - - - - 172 -
1,733 - - - - - 1,733 -
4,263 - - - (1,664) - - 5,927
12 - - - - - 12 -
- - - - - - - -
(469) - - - - - (469) -
209 - 14 - 195 - - -
29,211 133 (14) (171) 55 - 29,208 -
35,131 133 - (171) (1,414) - 30,656 5,927
-
42,843 - - 171 1,767 - 40,905 Total liabilities -
35,131 133 - (171) (1,414) - 30,656 Net assets
Equity
Share capital
Share premium account
Revaluation reserve
Capital red. reserve
EBT Reserve
Shares held by EBT res.
Share option reserve
Retained earnings
Total equity
5,927
-
- - 1,072
37,480 - - 171 - - 37,309
2,524 - - - - - 2,524
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Current tax liabilities
-
-
40,004 - - 171 - - 39,833 -
70
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:21  Page 69 Directors, Company Secretary, Advisors and Shareholder Information
Executive Directors
Peter Hargreaves  
Stephen Lansdown 
Martin Mulligan
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Bloomer (appointed 18 September 2007)
Michael Evans (appointed 1 September 2007)
Company Secretary
Tracey Taylor
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Bristol
Solicitors
Burges Salmon LLP, Bristol
Principal Bankers 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Bristol
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited (formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars)
Registered Office
Kendal House
4 Brighton Mews
Clifton
Bristol
BS8 2NX
Company registration no: 2122142
Website
www.H-L.co.uk
71
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:21  Page 70 Five Year Record
UK GAAP
2003
£’000
IFRS
2004
£’000
IFRS
2005
£’000
IFRS
2006
£’000
IFRS
2007
£’000
34,494 42,520 50,379 73,460 98,769 Revenue
6,348 9,872 13,086 24,270 40,671 Underlying operating profit 
4,531 5,969 12,635 4,643 11,043 Operating profit 
4,909 6,809 14,504 7,597 24,390 Profit before tax
3,890 4,933 10,332 6,013 16,955 Profit after tax
3,429 4,933 10,332 6,013 16,955
Profit for the financial year attributable to members of the
parent company
(28,137) (32,591) (37,290) (49,190) (58,098) Administrative expenses
(9) (57) (3) - - Share of results of associates
(1,817) (3,903) (451) (19,627) (29,628) Exceptional administrative expenses
(360) - - - - Amortisation
738 840 1,833 2,919 1,430 Investment revenue
- - 36 35 11,917 Other gains and losses
(1,019) (1,876) (4,172) (1,584) (7,435) Tax
(461) - - - - Equity minority interests
19,123 26,584 35,131 17,469 44,495 Equity shareholders’ funds
0.10 0.72 0.72 1.81 3.00 Equity dividends per share  
0.7 1.0 2.2 1.4 3.6 Basic earnings per share
0.7 1.0 2.2 1.3 3.6 Diluted earnings per share
1.0 1.6 2.2 4.5 6.5 Underlying basic earnings per share
1.0 1.6 2.2 4.2 6.4 Underlying diluted earnings per share
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
72
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Five Year Record
Annual Report cover 10.07:Layout 1  18/10/07  16:43  Page 3 Blank Page:Layout 1  19/10/07  12:25  Page 1 Blank Page:Layout 1  19/10/07  12:25  Page 1 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 30 June 2007 
Issued by Hargreaves Lansdown
Kendal House, Brighton Mews, Clifton, Bristol BS8 2NX
Registered number: 2122142
