 REPORT AND 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2016
2016 CONTENTS
Highlights   1
Our services   6
Chairman’s statement   12
Chief Executive’s review   14
Business model  18
Strategic priorities and progress   22
Measuring our performance –   
key indicators      24
Operating and Financial Review   25
Managing our risks   33
Corporate social responsibility   40
Our people   44
Governance overview   48
Board of directors   50
Corporate governance report   52
Audit committee report   60
Directors’ remuneration report   65
Nomination Committee report   84
Risk Committee report   86
Directors’ report   88
Statement of directors’  
responsibilities   92
Independent auditors’ report   93
Consolidated income statement   100
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income   100
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity   101
Consolidated statement of   
financial position   102
Consolidated statement of cash flows   103
Notes to the consolidated financial  
statements   104
Parent company financial statements   133
Directors, company details, advisers   142
Five-year summary   143
Glossary of Financial Performance  
Measures   144
Definition of terms   145
One College Square South, Anchor 
Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
Registered number 02122142
www.hl.co.uk
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
1
AT A GLANCE
• STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH IN ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION UP 12% TO £61.7 BILLION
• 836,000 ACTIVE CLIENTS, AN INCREASE OF 100,000 IN THE YEAR
• PROFIT BEFORE TAX INCREASED BY 10% TO £218.9 MILLION
• TOTAL DIVIDEND UP 3% AT 34.0 PENCE PER SHARE
326.5 
294.2 
291.9 
269.2 
222.3 
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
NET REVENUE £M
61.7 
55.2 
46.9 
36.4 
26.3 
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £BN
78.2%
77.8%
75.6%
77.9%
79.3%
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
% OF RECURRING REVENUE
836
736
652
507
432
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
NO. OF ACTIVE CLIENTS '000
6.0 
6.1 
6.4 
5.1 
3.2 
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
NET NEW BUSINESS £BN
37.3 
33.1 
34.2 
31.4 
24.1 
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE PENCE
218.9 
199.0 
209.8 
195.2 
152.8 
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
PROFIT BEFORE TAX £M
34.00
33.00
32.00
29.59
22.59
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
DIVIDEND PER SHARE PENCE
54.7%
52.1%
42.2%
57.1%
52.1%
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
NET PROMOTER SCORE 
SM
100
84
144
76
45
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
NET NEW CLIENTS '000
Net Promoter, NPS, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marks and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are service marks of Bain & 
Company Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld
Alternative financial performance measures – Included in this Report and Financial Statements are various alternative performance measures used by the Company in the course of explaining the results for the 
year to 30 June 2016. These measures are listed along with the calculations to derive them and an explanation of why we use them on page 144 in the Glossary of Alternative Financial Performance Measures.  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
2
STRATEGIC
REPORT
01 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
3 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
4
ABOUT US
Hargreaves Lansdown operates the UK’s largest direct to investor investment service administering 
over £61.7 billion of investments in ISA, SIPP and Investment accounts for 836,000 active clients. 
We have been helping clients choose and manage their investments since 1981 and currently 
provide self-directed, advisory and third party arrangement services for individuals and corporates. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has built a respected reputation with clients and the wider investment 
industry and works tirelessly to maintain and improve the lot of retail investors. 
Our success is built around a high quality service tailored to the individual needs of our clients in 
order to help them make more of their money throughout their lifetime. We ensure our clients have 
access to information to support them with making their own investment decisions or access to 
highly skilled advisers should they wish to leave the decisions to us. 
Our aim is to be the UK’s number one choice for savings and investments. Knowledgeable and 
helpful staff, technology and experience enable us to deliver a business model that is highly 
scalable and has a strong track record of delivering growth and value for our shareholders and 
clients alike.
We are proud of our success and are committed to delivering continued value in the years ahead to 
both clients and shareholders.
The Report and Financial Statements contain the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45, which includes an explanation of our business model, an analysis 
of our performance, a review of the business during the year and an outline of the principal risks and uncertainties. The Strategic Report was approved 
by and signed on behalf of the Board by the Chief Executive.
IAN GORHAM 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
6 SEPTEMBER 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
5
OUR VISION, STRATEGY AND VALUES
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
CLIENT
OUR PEOPLE SHAREHOLDERS
OUR VISION
To be the UK’s 
#1
OUR VALUES
Integrity, putting the client first, 
efficiency, quality, 
sustainability
OUR STRATEGY
We see the opportunity 
to create 
LIFELONG 
RELATIONSHIPS
with clients by being a one 
stop shop to manage their 
savings and investments.
We understand that our 
clients want us to provide a 
SAFE AND SECURE 
service to look after their 
assets. We will maintain 
our strong financial posi-
tion and provide capacity 
to manage their growth.
We will ensure to provide 
clients with an 
INCREDIBLE SERVICE
making the best use 
of information and 
technology to offer 
access to the investments 
that our clients want.
We will make it 
EASY AND EFICIENT 
for our clients to manage 
their savings and 
investments by offering a 
multi-channel service.
We price our services 
competitevely for 
GREAT VALUE 
we promote clear and fair 
prices and use our scale 
to obtain and provide 
better deals for clients.
WE ARE A MODERN SAVINGS 
AND INVESTMENT SERVICE.
OUR BRAND REFLECTS 
QUALITY, HELPFULNESS, 
INNOVATION AND ASPIRATION.
OUR CLIENT IS ANYONE WHO 
IS FINANCIALLY AWARE AND 
WANTS TO SAVE AND INVEST 
FOR THE FUTURE.
choice for savings and 
investments HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
6
OUR SERVICES 
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN AIMS TO HELP EACH CLIENT MAKE 
MORE OF THEIR MONEY THROUGHOUT THEIR LIFETIME. 
WE HAVE ESTABLISHED A REPUTATION FOR PROVIDING 
HIGH QUALITY AND VALUE-FOR-MONEY SERVICES TO 
PRIVATE INVESTORS, WHETHER THEY ARE MAKING THEIR 
OWN INVESTMENT DECISIONS OR SEEKING ADVISORY OR 
DISCRETIONARY SERVICES. 
VANTAGE SERVICE – OUR 
INVESTMENT SERVICE FOR 
SELF-DIRECTED INVESTORS
Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments, 
designed to make investing easy. Clients 
can hold all their funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, 
investment trusts, ISAs and self-invested 
personal pensions (SIPPs) in a single, great 
value, easy-to-manage service.
Our aim is to provide clients with the tools 
and information they need to make their 
own investment decisions and save money, 
whether a first time investor or wanting 
to improve the way that their existing 
investments are managed.
Our clients can invest new money and 
consolidate investments – for example, 
pensions accumulated in previous 
employment – into the Vantage service. 
Clients can manage their investments by 
telephone, post, online or mobile.
Vantage services include:
• Vantage ISA – a tax efficient home for 
funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, investment 
trusts and cash
• Vantage SIPP – a tax efficient pension
• Vantage SIPP Income Drawdown – a 
flexible retirement solution
• Vantage Fund and Share account – our 
general investment account
• HL Portfolio+ – a new service explained 
on this page
• Corporate Vantage – a growing service 
explained on this page
• Stockbroking – the largest execution only 
stockbroker in the UK
• Cash ISA
HL PORTFOLIO+
Portfolio+ is a new way to invest for those 
who prefer our experts to manage the 
composition of their investments. Clients 
decide whether they are investing for 
income or growth, how much risk they are 
comfortable with, and we will do the rest. 
We use the HL Multi-Manager funds as 
the underlying investments, making any 
necessary changes within them, and the 
portfolio is automatically rebalanced twice a 
year to ensure it remains on the original track 
set by the client.
CORPORATE VANTAGE
In addition to services for private individuals 
we are a leading provider and broker of 
corporate pension and wrap solutions. Our 
corporate wrap allows employees to benefit 
from the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage 
service via their workplace. Corporate 
Vantage includes award-winning SIPP , ISA, 
and Fund and Share accounts.  
Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown 
also provides other services to companies 
including a market-leading retirement and 
annuity broking service allowing employees 
to obtain a higher income via our annuity 
search engine. Our Corporate annuity 
and Corporate Vantage wrap services are 
provided to many household names. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
7
DISCRETIONARY SERVICES 
AND MANAGED FUNDS
The Discretionary business comprises the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds and 
PMS, the Group’s discretionary portfolio man-
agement service. Discretionary services include:
• The Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 
– our discretionary managed solution for 
clients who want to leave the work to us. 
Our experienced investment managers 
work closely with our research analysts to 
continually identify the best fund managers 
for our portfolios which are rebalanced to 
maintain their investment objectives.
• HL Multi-Manager – a broad range of ten 
managed portfolios for those who wish 
to leave the choice of underlying funds to 
our experts. Each of the ten Multi-Manager 
funds provide a professionally monitored 
portfolio, holding what we believe are some 
of the best fund managers in their field.
THIRD PARTY AND OTHER 
SERVICES
The third party and other services division 
distributes investment products that are not 
held on the platform. It includes:
• Annuities
• Certificated share dealing
• The ability to invest in Venture Capital Trusts 
(VCT s)
• A foreign currency service to both private 
clients and companies
• Contracts For Difference (CFDs) and Spread 
Betting
• Funds Library
The full range of our services can be viewed 
on the website at
www.hl.co.uk/investment-services
HL SAVINGS 
We are developing two exciting new services 
for clients.
The first will be a digital deposit service built 
to address the savings market. The service 
will allow clients to manage their cash savings 
in one place whilst switching between offers 
from different banks and building societies. 
We aim to encourage clients to engage with 
their savings through a service characterised 
by ease of use and choice. We intend to launch 
the service in late 2016.
The second will be a Peer to Peer platform. 
The platform will allow clients to lend to other 
clients as well as SMEs. Individual borrowers 
will use their assets on Vantage as collateral. 
We will aim to offer a simple and transparent 
service with competitive returns. This offering 
will follow the deposit service.
During the financial year our website and 
apps were visited 104.7 million times, up 
19% on the previous year, demonstrating that 
our digital growth continues apace. Mobile 
continues to be a dominant trend and our 
apps have now been downloaded more than 
465,000 times. In the year to 30 June 2016 
11.6% of our online share deals were placed 
via apps.
Investment and innovation in digital, in 
particular mobile, must continue. We 
delivered a mobile optimised website in 
2016 and will follow this with redesigned 
and improved mobile apps in 2017. We will 
ensure we continue to be at the forefront of 
technology and capturing people’s appetite to 
invest and manage their money wherever and 
whenever they choose. 
Technology and changing consumer habits 
also continue to present new opportunities 
and marketing channels. Our digital marketing 
mix continues to broaden and diversify from 
core activities such as paid search and search 
engine optimisation to content networks 
and social channels. Our investment in 
digital marketing technology and resources 
has also helped us improve the commercial 
performance of our digital activities as well as 
the client experience. 
OUR WEBSITE AND DIGITAL APPS
104.7M VISITS TO OUR 
APPS AND WEBSITE
+19% HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
8
WHO OUR CLIENTS ARE
Our investment services are provided 
directly to the private investor in the UK. 
Our clients may be investing for their 
future, saving for retirement, investing for 
children or grandchildren, making the most 
of tax allowances by using ISA and pension 
allowances, or they may be drawing down 
on their investments after retirement (as 
depicted to the right). The majority of 
our clients select and manage their own 
investments using our Vantage platform. 
Alternatively they can use our advisory 
services, our Multi-Manager funds, the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Portfolio+ service 
which provides ready-made portfolios which 
are managed by our in-house experts.
We also provide services such as workplace 
pension schemes and annuity purchase 
services to private investors through 
corporate clients.  We work on behalf of 500 
corporate clients, of which 335 are Corporate 
Vantage schemes – the 69,000 individual 
clients within those schemes are included in 
the number of Vantage clients.
New accounts,
new clients,
workplace 
savings 
Planning family
wealth
Drawdown,
annuity,
income generation
Building wealth -
pensions, ISAs, 
investing, saving, 
peer-to-peer
Child saving 
e.g. Junior ISA
OUR CLIENT IS ANYONE WHO IS FINANCIALLY AWARE AND 
WANTS TO SAVE AND INVEST FOR THEIR FUTURE. THEY VALUE 
A LIFELONG SOLUTION, SECURITY, GREAT VALUE, INCREDIBLE 
SERVICE, AND EASE & EFFICIENCY.
OUR CLIENTS
“HL’s Vantage Service is user friendly, 
accessible and easy to navigate 
through. Transferring my pension to 
the HL SIPP was simple, quick and 
trouble free. To top it off, any queries 
submitted have been answered very 
quickly. I have both an ISA and SIPP 
with HL now.” Mr Bradburn, Glasgow
“Customer care and technical support 
is excellent. The phones are always 
answered very promptly and by a 
highly qualified and knowledgeable 
member of staff. Staff are always 
polite, friendly, patient and 
professional. They also always do 
what they promise to do promptly. 
This all makes you feel valued as a 
customer.” Mrs Turner, Bristol
When choosing an investment service, 
investors’ most important considerations are:
1. Lifelong solution
2. Secure & profitable
3. Great value
4. Incredible service
5. Easy & efficient
Hargreaves Lansdown is a trusted brand 
that is committed to delivering these 
requirements for investors.
Skilled helpdesk staff and advanced 
technology ensure that we provide a 
consistently high quality, accessible and 
convenient service. We do not set out to 
be the cheapest; instead we aim to offer 
great value. We offer a range of information, 
tools and services for clients who prefer to 
choose their own investments as well as 
financial advice for those who want more 
help. As a result Hargreaves Lansdown is 
the UK’s most popular investing service.
Our business is scalable and should enable 
growth in profits as the business grows. 
Making profits means we can regularly 
invest to improve and broaden our range of 
services and/or reduce our prices over time. 
Hargreaves Lansdown places the client at the 
heart of all that it does and makes a compel-
ling case to become a client, not just in the 
short-term but to remain with us throughout 
their life, safe in the knowledge that we 
continually aim to bring them further benefits 
helping them to make the most of their 
investments and ultimately their retirement. 
WHY CLIENTS CHOOSE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
AGE
SPEND SPEND
INVEST
Age 30+ Age 65+
By providing a lifelong service we aim to retain clients whatever their needs HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
CONVENIENCE AND EASE
Our mobile and iPad App has been 
downloaded 465,000 times. 
HELPFUL AND 
KNOWLEDGEABLE STAFF
Highly trained Bristol based investment 
and pension helpdesks with average 
call response times of 14 seconds.
CLIENT FOCUSSED 
IMPROVEMENT 
We listen to our clients. Their feedback 
is key to how we improve and grow our 
services.
INVESTMENT EXPERTS
We have a dedicated research team 
who constantly review and comment on 
investments available through Hargreaves 
Lansdown. Our experts also manage ten 
of our own HL Multi-Manager Funds.
VALUE FOR MONEY
On behalf of our clients we have already 
used and continue to use our size and 
influence to negotiate some of the best 
(and often exclusive) discounts on 
funds in the market.
TRUSTED SOURCE OF 
USEFUL, INDEPENDENT 
INFORMATION
The number of visits to our website and 
apps this year was 104.7 million.
CHOICE
A wide range of investments – 2,500+ 
funds, 10,000+ UK, US and European 
shares, investment trusts, gilts, ETFs, 
bonds and cash.
ADVICE WHEN CLIENTS 
NEED IT
We offer financial advice, financial 
planning and portfolio management, 
or tools and support to do it yourself. 
Advice may be ongoing, as a one-off or 
as and when required.
TRUST AND SECURITY
A recognised, trusted and financially 
secure FTSE 100 business, dedicated 
to keeping our clients’ investments safe 
and secure.
EXCELLENT SERVICE
95.1%* of clients rated our service as 
excellent, very good or good.
*Based on a survey of 11,537 respondents in 
May 2016. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
10
RECENT AWARDS INCLUDE
All our awards are listed on our website - http://www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/our-awards
OUR EXPERIENCE GAINED OVER FOUR DECADES HAS 
ALLOWED US TO DEVELOP A SERVICE TAILORED PRECISELY TO 
THE NEEDS OF PRIVATE INVESTORS. 95.1% OF OUR CLIENTS 
RATE OUR SERVICE GOOD, VERY GOOD OR EXCELLENT. WE 
WIN NUMEROUS PRESTIGIOUS INDUSTRY AWARDS AND OUR 
CLIENTS’ CONTINUED LOYALTY HAS CREATED A SUCCESSFUL 
AND FINANCIALLY SECURE BLUE CHIP COMPANY.
AWARD-WINNING 
SERVICES
Hargreaves Lansdown is consistently 
recognised at industry awards. We are 
proud of such recognition which also 
serves to further grow our brand and the 
trust which clients place in our services. 
Underlying these achievements is a 
commitment to excellence shared by 
everybody in the Hargreaves Lansdown 
team.
• Best Investment Platform – Online Personal Wealth Awards
• Best D2C Platform Award – Professional Adviser
• Best At-Retirement Solution – Corporate Adviser Awards
• Pension Provider of the Year – Pensions Age
• Best ETF Research Provider 2016 – ETF Express Global Awards 
• Gold Trusted Merchant (based on client feedback) - FEEFO
BACK TO BACK AWARDS INCLUDE
• Best Direct Platform – The Platforum 2013, 2014, 2015
• Best SIPP Provider – What Investment 2013, 2014, 2015
• Gold Standard for Individual Pensions – Gold Standard Awards 2013, 2014, 2015
• Best Fund Supermarket – What Investment 2014, 2015
• Best Pension Provider of the Year – Workplace Saving & Benefits Award 2014, 2015
• Gold Standard for Group Pensions – Gold Standard Awards 2014, 2015
• Gold Standard for Retirement – Gold Standard Awards 2014, 2015
OTHER AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2015 AND 2016
• Best All Rounder – Direct Platform Awards – The Lang Cat
• Best for Pensions (AND Pension Freedoms) – Direct Platform Awards – The Lang Cat
• Best Direct Platform for Service – The Platforum
• Best Direct Share Dealing Provider for 2015 – Your Money
• Best Fund Platform – City of London Wealth Management Awards
• Best Retail Pension Provider – Financial news 2015 Awards for Excellence, 
Institutional Pensions
• Best Stockbroker for Customer Service – FT Investors Chronicle
• Business Leader – Customer Excellence Award
• Outstanding industry contribution – Investment Week
• UK Platform Awards – Leading innovation in consumer platform (for the 
experienced investor) 
• Best Direct SIPP Provider, Best Junior Stocks & Shares ISA Provider – Your Money
DAVID HENDERSON – HEAD OF 
PENSIONS WITH JACK WILLIAMS – SIPP 
ACCOUNT MANAGER, HOLDING THE 
GOLD STANDARD AWARDS FOR GROUP 
PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
TOM MCPHAIL HOLDING OUR 
AWARD FOR ‘BEST RETAIL 
PENSION PROVIDER 2015 –
FINANCIAL NEWS’ HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
12
I am delighted to introduce our Annual 
Report for the year ended 30 June 2016 in 
which we announce a strong set of financial 
results together with a growth in profits. 
GROWTH
Our asset gathering has continued despite 
periods of low investor confidence during the 
year, particularly in the first quarter of the 
current calendar year which has historically 
been a strong period for us. Investors 
have been concerned by weaker financial 
markets, geo-political uncertainty, economic 
weakness and, in the latter stages of the 
reporting period, the debate surrounding 
the referendum on the UK’s membership of 
the European Union (“EU”). Notwithstanding 
this, we have delivered net new business 
inflows in line with last year, underpinned 
by impressive numbers of net new clients. 
As a result, our assets under administration 
finished the year at another record level. 
We have delivered strong underlying 
performance across our business and we 
are pleased to report a 10% increase in 
profits, despite market weakness during the 
period. The return to profit growth and the 
continued pace of asset gathering gives us 
the confidence to invest in the future growth 
CONTINUED GROWTH 
IN CLIENTS AND ASSETS 
DRIVING A RETURN TO 
PROFITS GROWTH.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
MIKE EVANS 
CHAIRMAN HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
of the business. Over the course of the 
year, we have broadened the range of our 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds, 
and carried on the development of our 
savings proposition which remains on target 
to launch in late calendar year 2016. 
GOVERNANCE
Good governance remains at the heart of 
everything we do. During the course of the 
year, the Board Risk Committee has spent 
time on the development and approval of 
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process and improved its focus on emerging 
risks. In appointing Jayne Styles as Chair 
of the Investment Committee, we have 
sought to refine and focus the remit of the 
Investment Committee. We commissioned a 
mid-year Internal Audit review of the action 
plan arising from last year’s external Board 
effectiveness review and are pleased with 
the progress we are making as we continue 
to develop the Board.
DIVIDEND
We are a financially strong Group with a 
robust balance sheet retaining a capital base 
over and above regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements. Given the delivery of strong 
earnings growth in the year and taking into 
account the future cash requirements of 
the Group, the Board has approved a total 
dividend for the year of 34.0p per share 
(2015: 33.0p), representing a 3% increase 
versus 2015 and a dividend pay-out ratio of 
91% (2015: 99%), more in line with historic 
pay-out levels. This represents a second 
interim ordinary dividend of 16.30p per 
share (2015: 14.30p) and a special dividend 
of 9.90p per share (2015: 11.40p).
PEOPLE
We recognise the importance of developing 
a team which contains the best talent in the 
industry and have sustained our focus on 
supporting our people, with much attention 
on leadership and development, culture and 
succession planning during the year. 
We have made a number of changes to the 
Board. In October 2015 we appointed Jayne 
Styles as a new independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Investment 
Committee. Jayne is the Chief Investment 
Officer of MS Amlin and brings broad 
investment knowledge and relevant financial 
services experience. In February 2016, 
we welcomed Christopher Hill as our new 
Chief Financial Officer, who brings a wealth 
of financial and operational experience. As 
previously announced, Dharmash Mistry 
resigned as a Non-Executive Director at the 
end of August 2015 and we thank Dharmash 
for his contribution to the Board, particularly 
in the digital arena.
We have announced today that our Chief 
Executive, Ian Gorham, has decided to step 
down no later than 30 September 2017.  
Christopher Hill, our current Chief Financial 
Officer, will become Deputy Chief Executive 
with effect from 1 October 2016. It is the 
Board’s current intention that Christopher 
will be confirmed as Chief Executive 
following Ian’s departure subject to FCA 
approval.
Ian has done a fantastic job of leading 
Hargreaves Lansdown to its current position 
of a market leading successful FTSE 100 
business, serving the investment needs of 
836,000 clients and looking after 
£61.7 bn of the UK public’s assets.  The Board 
thanks Ian for his outstanding contribution to 
Hargreaves Lansdown.  
The coming year is an exciting one as 
we seek to continue the Group’s growth 
trajectory, building on the new services and 
features delivered in recent years and the 
introduction of our savings proposition to 
allow us to continue to thrive in our chosen 
markets. Our dedicated and talented people 
remain integral to our success and, as always 
my gratitude goes to my colleagues for 
their continuing hard work, diligence and 
enthusiasm.
Mike Evans
Chairman
6 September 2016
 
3% 
INCREASE TO 
DIVIDENDS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
HEADLINES
The year to 30 June 2016 saw a return to 
profit growth, allied to substantial new assets 
and new clients in what was an eventful geo-
political financial year.
Profit before tax for the year grew 10% to 
£218.9 million, aided by revenue from new 
and existing assets and clients, increased 
net interest income, strong flows into new 
Hargreaves Lansdown funds and energetic 
client equity trading, particularly towards the 
end of the financial year. 
Net new business was £6.0 billion (2015: 
£6.1bn), representing 11% growth in Assets 
Under Administration (AUA). At 30 June 
2016 AUA stood at £61.7 billion, up 12% (30 
June 2015: £55.2bn). Assets broke through 
the £60bn level for the first time, despite 
lower stock markets, with the FTSE All-
Share averaging 5.1% lower than last year 
and ongoing depressed investor confidence, 
which always makes gathering new business 
more challenging.
We welcomed 100,000 new active clients, 
up 19% on last year (2015: 84,000). Active 
client numbers were 836,000 at 30 June 
2016 (30 June 2015: 736,000). Hargreaves 
Lansdown remains the largest business of 
its type in the UK, with 37.5% of the direct 
investment market at 31 March 2016 (Source: 
Platforum*), up from 35.9% in September 
2015 and its market share of UK execution 
only stockbroking rose from 24.1% to 
27.3%** over the past year. 
Continued high service levels were rewarded 
through our high asset retention rate of 
93.5% (2015: 92.7%) and client retention 
rate of 94.3% (2015: 93.4%). Hargreaves 
Lansdown continues to win substantial 
numbers of awards for client service. Our 
Net Promoter ScoreSM of 54.7% is excellent 
and a reflection of our commitment to client 
service excellence.
WE ARE PLEASED TO PRESENT OUR RESULTS FOR THE 
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2016, REPORTING A STRONG 
PROFIT INCREASE, ALONGSIDE EXCELLENT GROWTH 
IN CLIENTS AND CLIENT ASSETS, WHICH NOW EXCEED 
£60BN FOR THE FIRST TIME. 
IAN GORHAM 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Net Promoter, NPS, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marks and Net 
Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are service marks of Bain & Company, Inc., 
Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN’S 
2016 RESULTS
Profit before tax for the year was a record 
£218.9 million. High client satisfaction drove 
strong client recruitment and retention, 
with associated additional fees and income. 
Our Multi-Manager funds continued to be 
popular, generating £44.1 million of fund 
management income and our new initiatives, 
particularly new fund launches, also proved 
successful. Whilst bank deposit rates 
continued to fall, measures put in place in 
2015 to stabilise interest income for both 
Hargreaves Lansdown and clients paid off, 
delivering increased returns from this source. 
Client equity trading volumes during the 
year were considerably higher, up 9% at 3.7 
million (2015: 3.4 million), driven particularly 
by speculation and volatility around the 
EU referendum, with a record 63,000 
trades conducted on 24 June 2016. This 
additional trading drove higher stockbroking 
commission. 
We are well positioned to take advantage 
of the structural opportunity for growth 
in the savings and investments market. 
We continue to see opportunities for 
controlled, selective investment where we 
are confident in delivering attractive returns 
for our shareholders. In this context, we 
demonstrated good cost control in the second 
half of the year with 7% growth in operating 
costs in the second half, compared to 19% 
in the first half. Given the macro-economic 
backdrop, we are very pleased with the profit 
growth achieved.
By far the most substantial profit headwind 
was the level of stock markets through the 
year. Although by 30 June 2016 the FTSE 
All Share Index finished down only 1.5% 
on the year before at 3515.45, a late “post 
Brexit” rally at the end of June 2016 masked 
considerably depressed stock market levels 
throughout the year. On average during 
the financial year to 30 June 2016, the 
Index traded at a level 5.1% lower than the 
comparative period in 2015, and investor 
confidence was subdued. Our platform and 
management fee income is directly linked 
to client asset values, and had markets 
remained flat profit growth would have been 
even higher.
Clients and assets again grew substantially, 
with the year-end assets of our 836,000 
active clients valued at £61.7 billion. Net new 
pension (SIPP) assets were £2.7bn (2015: 
£2.3bn), up 17%, reflecting the continued 
popularity of the Pension Freedom rules. 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) net new 
business was down 15% at £2.2 billion (2015: 
£2.6bn) and Fund and Share account net new 
business flat at £1.1 billion (2015: £1.1bn). 
ISA and Fund and Share account business 
tends to be more reflective of stock market 
performance and given the difficult markets 
and low investor confidence, we are not 
surprised by levels of net new business in 
these areas. Deals with JP Morgan and Jupiter 
led to the acquisition of 6,588 new clients 
and £264 million of new assets added to our 
Vantage service.
There continued to be considerable demand 
for Hargreaves Lansdown’s expanding 
asset management capability amongst our 
clients. At 30 June 2016 assets in Hargreaves 
Lansdown Multi-Manager funds stood at 
£6.3 billion (2015: £5.6bn), up 13%. Two new 
fund launches, “High Income” and “Strategic 
Assets”, had a combined total of £380 million 
in assets at 30 June 2016. Our HL Portfolio+ 
online “robo” investing service continued to 
attract assets, with £311 million of assets at 
the year-end (2015: £26m). 
The Corporate Vantage service had 335 
schemes live or in implementation by the 
year end (2015: 256), a 31% increase. An 
additional 15,242 net new members joined 
the service (2015: 11,134), up 29%, and 
assets in our Corporate Vantage service 
stood at £1.76 billion by 30 June 2016 
(2015: £1.30 bn), up 35%. Annual premiums 
invested by employees and companies were 
£244.1 million (2015: £197.0m), up 24%. 
Growth in this service, particularly in the 
first half of last year, was constrained by the 
effect of new auto-enrolment rules on our 
key markets, with many companies focusing 
on achieving compliance rather than selecting 
new schemes. New corporate business has 
benefited from the absence of that drag this 
year.
The interest rate environment remains 
depressed, and therefore income from cash 
balances continued to reflect low interest 
rates. However, in April 2015 we completed 
changes to our SIPP which allowed us 
to place client money on term deposit, a 
significant development as over 50% of cash 
held by clients with Hargreaves Lansdown is 
held in the SIPP . This allowed us to increase 
both revenue and deposit rates paid to clients 
holding cash in their SIPP . Whilst interest 
rates remain low we expect to continue 
to experience subdued margins on cash 
balances.
£2.7bn 
NET NEW PENSION 
BUSINESS (SIPP) HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
16
2016/2017 MARKET OUTLOOK
A major impact on market outlook is 
uncertainty caused by the UK’s referendum 
decision on 23 June 2016 to leave the EU.
Hargreaves Lansdown remained neutral 
throughout this debate, believing it a matter 
for the British people to decide. In the 
short term we have seen elevated levels of 
equity trading in response to volatility, and 
weakness in the pound leading to strong 
relative performance of overseas funds and 
investments. The long-term implications of 
the vote are unknown. However, we remain 
confident about the future and consider our 
business to be robust. Hargreaves Lansdown 
is the largest business of its kind in the UK 
and not dependent on any single asset class 
or investment to prosper. The requirement for 
individuals and corporates to commit to long-
term savings remains.
Throughout 2015/2016 UK stock markets 
were depressed, but despite this we 
have reported strong results. The words 
“headwind” and “low investor confidence” 
seem to have featured throughout recent 
annual reports. Whilst in the short-term 
volatility and uncertainty may continue, as 
more clarity develops on the execution path 
for leaving the EU we hope 2016/2017 may 
see better markets. 
We have already seen a cut to base interest 
rates. Further changes to rates are also 
possible and would have a commensurate 
effect on our interest income. 
GROUP OUTLOOK
Hargreaves Lansdown is well positioned to 
sustain its growth within the UK savings and 
investments market. Retail clients continue 
to need to manage their finances using a 
trusted, safe and secure platform that is easy 
and efficient to deal with in an increasingly 
complex economic environment. 
Our 2016 performance has delivered a return 
to healthy profit growth, as anticipated in the 
2015 report. We remain confident in investing 
in our strategy to develop products and 
services which will complement the future 
growth of Hargreaves Lansdown. Business 
in the first two months of the new financial 
year has been in line with management’s 
expectations, with stockbroking activity from 
investors taking advantage of recent volatility 
and fund investment relatively quiet over the 
summer months. The Board’s confidence in 
the business model is reflected in its approval 
of a total dividend for 2016 of 34.0p (2015: 
33.0p), representing 3% year on year growth 
and a pay-out ratio of 91% (2015: 99%). 
In the year to 30 June 2017 we look forward 
to the launch of HL Savings, our cash man-
agement service. A “soft” initial launch will 
allow us to test and refine the service. We 
therefore do not expect HL Savings to have 
a material bearing on financial results for the 
year to 30 June 2017. However, this project 
remains on track and will mark our entry into 
an asset sector of significant interest to all 
our clients – cash deposits – as well as Peer 
to Peer lending which will follow in 2017. 
We intend to expand our fund management 
range and to grow the Portfolio+ service. 
The Corporate service has also again shown 
good growth and, whilst a long term project, 
is adding assets apace and deserves the 
continued investment we are making in its 
distribution capability.
Mobile services remain important and we 
have invested in replacing our mobile phone 
apps. We have always been at the forefront 
of mobile investing and our new version of HL 
Live for iPhone and Android will launch during 
the coming year, building on our data and 
experience of our clients’ mobile investing 
needs. The strong position we have in the UK 
savings and investments market, together 
with the selective investment we have 
undertaken to further enhance our customer 
proposition, underpins our confidence in 
continuing to deliver attractive growth and 
returns for our shareholders.
IN THE YEAR TO 
30 JUNE 2017 WE 
LOOK FORWARD TO 
THE LAUNCH OF HL 
SAVINGS, OUR CASH 
MANAGEMENT SERVICE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
17
THE IMPACT OF REGULATION 
AND GOVERNMENT POLICY
Looking forward, we see further growth in the 
direct investment market. 
 
Regulation is an ever present theme in 
financial services. Addressing regulatory 
change takes up a considerable amount of 
our time and resources. However, Hargreaves 
Lansdown is well-placed to address these 
challenges. Whilst there are always further 
regulatory changes coming down the track, 
we have not identified any likely to have an 
unusually material impact. 
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Hargreaves Lansdown is an ethical company 
and champion of the retail investor. We 
campaign tirelessly on behalf of retail 
investors to improve their lot and their 
wealth.
We continue to encourage price competition 
within the fund industry which has resulted 
in reduced costs of both active and passive 
funds for investors. We have negotiated 
market leading discounts on some of the best 
UK funds to the benefit of our clients.
This year will see the launch of the HL 
Charitable Foundation to further aid our 
charity and community work. The Foundation 
is explained more in the corporate social 
responsibility section and I wish it every 
success. We have also invested considerably 
in our people this year, making Hargreaves 
Lansdown an even more exciting place to work.
As in previous years, Hargreaves Lansdown 
continues to pay its tax in full in the UK.
CONCLUSION
I would like to thank our clients, shareholders, 
colleagues and my fellow Directors in what 
has once again been a very busy year 
of significant progress. The support and 
dedication they have shown has delivered 
another set of strong results.
We have also announced I shall be stepping 
down as Chief Executive of Hargreaves 
Lansdown no later than 30 September 2017.
I have been proud to work with, and therefore 
give my thanks to the exceptional clients, 
colleagues and shareholders of Hargreaves 
Lansdown who have supported the Group as 
it has risen to become an admired, mature 
and established FTSE 100 business.  I believe 
the Group is in excellent hands and that the 
business shall be best served by natural 
succession as it pursues its exciting future.
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive   
6 September 2016
*As issued by The Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2016. 
** Stockbroking data from Compeer Limited XO 
Quarterly Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2016 and 
Quarter 2 2015.
IAN GORHAM AND 
CHRISTOPHER HILL HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
18
WE ARE IN BUSINESS TO 
BUILD LONG-TERM PROFIT. 
THIS ALLOWS US TO INVEST 
IN DEVELOPMENT AND 
INNOVATION, AS WELL AS 
IN GREAT PEOPLE, AND 
TO DISTRIBUTE PROFITS 
TO SHAREHOLDERS AS 
DIVIDENDS.
BUSINESS MODEL
HOW OUR BUSINESS 
GENERATES VALUE
Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms more 
typically focus on servicing the independent 
financial advice (IFA) community. Our 
investment supermarket services the private 
investor directly. The Hargreaves Lansdown 
business model allows us to offer highly 
competitive prices to our clients, achieving 
high quality recurring revenue streams 
and strong profitability. We aim to create 
shareholder value by retaining our position as 
the best place in the UK for private investors 
to buy investments and savings products.
Reinvesting part of our profits enables us 
to grow our business by retaining existing 
clients, obtaining new investments from 
our existing clients and by winning new 
clients. We do this by providing market 
leading service, information and value. When 
combined with the security we offer and the 
trust in our brand it provides a compelling 
reason for clients to choose and remain with 
Hargreaves Lansdown.
REVENUE 
We earn revenue through the administration 
and management of assets held 
predominantly on the Vantage platform. 
Assets include funds, UK, US and European 
shares, investment trusts, exchange-traded 
funds (ETFs), bonds and cash. They can be 
held in tax wrappers or trading accounts and 
can be viewed and traded all on one platform. 
We focus on delivering a high quality service 
to our clients fulfilling their investment needs 
throughout their life. The revenue from 
this service can be split into recurring and 
transactional streams.
RECURRING REVENUE
We deem revenue to be recurring when 
charges are calculated on the value of Assets 
Under Administration (AUA) or management 
and will continue to be earned on an ongoing 
basis whilst we administer or manage those 
assets. For example, we charge a percentage 
of the value of funds held on Vantage each 
month based on the value of those holdings 
at the end of the month.
The majority of recurring revenue arises 
from the administration of assets held 
on the Vantage platform. This income is  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
based on a percentage of the value of AUA 
and is expressed as basis points (bps). 
Revenue levels vary according to the class 
of investment, the type of account and the 
amount held – fees are tiered and/or capped. 
The mix of investments and products has an 
impact on the levels of revenue.
AUA grows through existing and new clients 
adding more investments into their accounts, 
combined with growth in the underlying 
value of the investments they hold in their 
accounts. Stock markets give an indication 
of investment growth and the most relevant 
proxy measure tends to be the movement in 
the FTSE All-Share Index. Whilst short-term 
fluctuations may decrease the value of AUA, 
our clients’ exposure to the stock market 
has historically increased AUA, and therefore 
revenue, in the long run.
There will always be a natural loss of 
business whether from investors using their 
savings upon retirement, death or the effects 
of competition. However, we aim to minimise 
lost business with a constant focus on 
excellent service and providing a “one stop 
shop” offering a broad range of investments 
and services. Investors can readily switch 
between different investments without the 
need to leave our investment platform, which 
means we do not see the outflows of AUA 
that, for example, an asset manager would 
experience when an investor decides to 
sell their investment – the cash or the new 
investment can remain on our investment 
platform.
In addition to administering we also manage 
certain assets. These include our range of HL 
Multi-Manager Funds and our PMS Service. 
Managing assets broadens our coverage of 
the supply chain and therefore increases the 
revenue we are able to earn on the assets 
held on the platform. These revenue streams 
have similar characteristics to those detailed 
above.
TRANSACTIONAL REVENUE
Stockbroking commission contributes the 
majority of our transactional revenue and 
arises each time a client buys or sells an 
equity, ETF or bond. Our charging structure 
for equities varies from £11.95 per trade 
to £5.95 depending on the number of 
trades placed in the previous month. Other 
transactional revenue streams include 
initial charges for advisory clients or one-off 
advisory fees.
The number of active clients will impact the  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
20
underlying trend of stockbroking volumes; 
the more clients, the more potential revenue, 
all other things being equal, but short-term 
factors can have a significant influence. For 
example, stock market volatility can often 
lead to high dealing volumes and initial public 
offerings can lead to large one-off sources 
of stockbroking income. Initial and one-
off advisory fees are directly linked to the 
number of new advisory clients each period.
HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT
These days everyone talks about excellent 
service, but it takes experience and 
commitment to actually deliver. Our service 
is joined up – one website, one login, one 
conversation, one platform offering a huge 
range of investments – a “one stop shop”. 
There is more we can do to keep improving, 
but we are in a strong position when it comes 
to delivering great service as evidenced 
by recent awards from Which? and The 
Platforum.
A founding principle of our business is 
‘simplicity’ – the financial services industry 
is weighed down with complexity, yet when 
we deal directly with self-directed investors 
we make it simple for them. We use our 
scale and position in the market to negotiate 
favourable discounts for our clients, we lobby 
for better savings products, and we put the 
client at the heart of everything that we do.
Most changes and opportunities within our 
business require an element of systems 
or web development. We own, control and 
develop our own IT systems. We have our 
own proprietary systems that are not sold to 
others in the industry, and we have in-house 
development knowledge and expertise. This 
makes us nimble and quick to respond to 
opportunities. Our business is not capital 
intensive, but we employ c. 200 IT staff 
to maintain, develop and operate our IT 
infrastructure, website and systems. The 
long-term sustainability of our IT platform 
continues to be a key strategic priority for us.
HOW OUR BUSINESS IS 
SUSTAINABLE
We have a consistent track record of growing 
AUA, active clients and improving our 
service. Other than last year, for the reasons 
highlighted in the Chief Executive’s statement 
at that time, we have also had a consistent 
track record of growing profits and earnings 
per share. We believe this is because we 
have the right distribution channels, offer the 
right service and products, and operate with 
the right cost structure. Going forward we 
believe that market and demographic trends 
continue to be favourable for growth in our 
key markets of pensions and ISAs. In addition 
the growth in the market size addressable 
by Direct to Client platforms is expected to 
continue growing significantly. 
A large proportion of AUA (72%) are high 
quality recurring revenue streams (“sticky”); 
by this we mean that they are held within tax 
wrappers which make investors less likely to 
spend them. Our excellent service standards 
and breadth of service means that we have 
very high rates of asset and client retention 
(93.5% and 94.3% respectively).
The business operations are very scalable, 
so as we continue to grow we benefit from 
economies of scale and increasing cost 
efficiency. We utilise technology to ensure 
our service is efficient and as automated as 
possible, such that adding new clients and 
assets has only a marginal cost impact. We 
continually look at what our clients want, 
as well as the competitive landscape and 
industry developments in order to evolve 
our service with the aim of growing our 
market share. Communication with clients is 
conducted through regular client forums and 
targeted surveys. A key current project is how 
we can better service the asset class of cash 
on behalf of our clients and to that end we 
are developing a cash management portal. 
The Peer to Peer lending service will also give 
access to a new host of assets that we can 
look to add to our platform and earn recurring 
revenue.
The reinvestment of profits to provide 
improved services, better functionality and, 
over time, making the cost of investing 
cheaper for our clients all contribute to our 
sustainability. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
21
Lifelong solution We believe investors value the simplicity of being able to manage all their finances in one place. This has 
been a defining principle in making our platform a “one stop shop” for investments. Clients are able to 
consolidate all of their investments, whether in a tax wrapper or not, into one convenient, easy to manage 
service. We will continue to develop our offering to both expand the coverage of our clients’ investments 
and also to respond to changes in their needs and behaviour.
Secure and profitable After property, investments are usually an individual’s second most valuable asset. As a result, clients value 
the security of their investments highly. We aim to provide confidence in our company and therefore comfort 
to our clients. In order to be here in the future we need to maintain strong company finances, protect our 
clients against financial crime and keep a culture of compliance. We also continually invest in our IT systems 
and operations to maintain the capacity to deal with a growing client base.
Great value We aim to provide a great value service. This allows us to provide the security and incredible service 
our clients’ desire, rather than being the cheapest and offering a reduced service. Clear and transparent 
pricing is also important to us and we will continue to clearly disclose pricing to maintain client trust and 
understanding.
Incredible service The myriad of financial services and products available, combined with constantly changing regulations and 
tax rules, can make managing investments complex and confusing. We aim to provide the best information 
to simplify this process and allow clients to make decisions with confidence.
Beyond information, we want to deliver the best client experience. Innovation and nurturing of new ideas allows 
the delivery of new products and services along with continual, incremental improvements to our existing services.
Easy & efficient We believe dealing with us should be easy and efficient. As such, we are constantly reviewing our processes 
and services to streamline interactions and allow clients to conduct their business with minimum hassle 
through whichever channel they choose. Application processes only ask for the information we really need, 
you can get straight through to someone on the phone with no automated system and information is easy 
to find.
The platform The platform acts as the supermarket through which clients can buy, hold and sell their investments within 
different tax efficient wrappers, individual savings accounts (ISAs) and self-invested personal pensions 
(SIPPs), or general investment accounts. It acts as an intermediary between the clients and the fund 
managers or registrars for the investments. 
Technology The platform uses our own proprietary systems. This allows us to offer unique products and services in a 
nimble and efficient manner. We are therefore uniquely positioned to respond to opportunities and develop 
our service to deliver the five core attributes desired by clients in an uninhibited manner.
People Our people lie at the centre of Hargreaves Lansdown, developing and implementing the strategy and client 
proposition. They do this through the development of the platform, our technology and our products and services. 
We have our own in-house knowledge to develop our proprietary systems. 
Products Once clients have reviewed the services and information available on our website they will invest into one or more 
of our products . These include ISAs, SIPPs and general investment accounts. See page 6 to 7 for more details.
We put the client at the centre of everything we do. As a result, our strategic aims relate to the five core attributes we believe our clients 
value the most. These are:
The client proposition is supported by:
CLIENT PROPOSITION
OUR STRATEGY
DELIVERING THE CLIENT PROPOSITION HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
22
Platform
Client Proposition
Lifelong 
solution
Easy & 
efficient
Secure & 
profitable
Great 
value
Incredible
service
ASSETS UNDER 
ADMINISTRATION
CLIENT 
SATISFACTION
SUSTAINABLE 
EARNINGS 
GROWTH
KPIs (page 24)
Asset retention rate
Client retention rate
Average accounts per clients
Profit
Percentage of net recurring 
revenue
Market share
Net new clients
Net new business
Client satisfaction
Net Promoter Score 
SM
Revenue per employee
Operating costs
Feefo account open positive 
rating
Principal risks (page 36)
Strategic change
Regulatory change
Conduct
Legal and regulatory
Business disruption
Cybercrime, fraud or security 
breaches
Technology
People
Market
Liquidity
Bank default
Interest rate
Prudential
OUR CLIENTS
We administer investments for 836,000 direct investor clients in the UK. Their needs vary 
from investing for the future through to drawing down their investments after retirement
OUR PLATFORM SERVICES
Vantage    HL Portfolio+  Corporate Vantage    Discretionary and Managed
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS
Technology. 
People. 
Products. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
23
Progress in 2016 Our 2017 priorities
Lifelong 
solution
• Prepared for delivery of HL Savings, a major initiative for 
the year
• Launched Strategic Assets and High Income HL Multi- 
Manager funds
• Successful first year for Portfolio+
• Delivered additional and enhanced calculators for Pension 
Freedoms
• Deliver the HL Savings Deposit Service in 2016 with Peer 
to Peer following shortly afterwards
• Launch of an HL equity fund
• Provision of a Lifetime ISA
• Continue to address the changing advice market
Secure and 
profitable
• Improved capacity management capabilities in both 
operations and IT 
• Continued improvements to governance and operational 
oversight in respect of clients’ assets and money
• Profit before tax up 10.0%
• Continue investment in security, capacity management 
and the future vision of our IT systems
• Proactively analysing and responding to regulation to 
identify opportunities and ensure compliance
Great value • Delivered numerous enhancements to our offering, such as 
customisable portfolios, more and enhanced calculators, 
mobile responsive marketing website and the online 
platform for HL’s Currency Service
• Continued to negotiate best prices on investments for 
clients
• New SIPP trust arrangements allowed us to mitigate some 
of the interest rate reductions resulting from new client 
money rules
• Focus on the client experience, improving our products 
and services
• Negotiate best prices on investments for clients
• Ensure the HL Savings Deposit Service provides great 
value to clients
Incredible 
service
• Improved information available online, in particular a 
simplified and more intuitive homepage, a new ‘Help’ 
section and improved pensions information
• Delivered an online platform for the HL Currency Service
• Continued focus on the client experience, streamlining 
processes and improving functionality
• Optimisation of, and investment into, our Helpdesk to 
improve the client experience
• Continue to develop a tailored experience for clients 
• Deliver new mobile and tablet apps
Easy & 
efficient
• Development of new mobile and tablet apps to launch in 
late 2016
• Delivered a responsive website to improve client 
experience and reduce future development time
• Improved efficiency of operational processes through a 
restructuring of our operational teams
• Reviewed and restructured our IT development processes and 
teams to increase development capacity and the cost ratio
• Invested in talent management including improved career 
development support, training and recruitment capabilities
Continue:
• To invest in talent management including a new Learning 
and Development team
• To future proof and improve the efficiency of operations 
and IT
• To ensure easy access to the information clients require, 
however they choose to consume it HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
24
WE USE A RANGE OF INDICATORS IN ORDER TO ASSESS PERFORMANCE. WE CONSIDER 
THE FOLLOWING MEASURES TO BE THE KEY FINANCIAL, OPERATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL 
INDICATORS WHEN LOOKING AT THE OVERALL PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP . WE REFER TO 
THESE MEASURES THROUGHOUT THE STRATEGIC REPORT. 
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE 
– KEY INDICATORS 
Strategy/KPIs 2016 2015 +/-
Lifelong solution
Asset retention rate 
(1)
93.5% 92.7% +0.8pts Retention rates are a key factor in the business model as high retention 
allows Assets Under Administration to grow more quickly, from which we 
earn revenue. Asset and client retention has always been maintained at a 
very high level and this year grew to 93.5% and 94.3% respectively.
Average accounts per client is used as an indicator of how widely our 
clients are using Hargreaves Lansdown throughout their financial life. 
Average accounts per client fell marginally this year to 1.34 due to the high 
level of Junior ISA transfers at the beginning of the year. The majority of 
these clients only have one account.
Client retention rate 
(2)
94.3% 93.4% +0.9pts
Average accounts per client 
(3)
1.34 1.35 -0.7%
Secure and profitable
Profit before tax 
(4)
£218.9 £199.0m +10.0% Profit before tax returned to double digit growth this year, increasing to 
£218.9m through a combination of increased revenue and cost control.
As recurring revenue is a more stable and reliable revenue stream than 
transactional revenue we aim to have a high percentage of net recurring 
revenue. This increased to 78.2% for 2016.
Percentage of net recurring 
revenue 
(5)
78.2% 77.8% +0.4pts
Great value
Market share 
(6)
37.5% 35.0% +2.5pts Market share continues to grow, increasing 2.5pts. This has been 
achieved through high levels of client and asset gathering and continual 
focus on improving the experience for clients.
Net new clients increased 19% to 100,000. Despite increased gathering 
of new clients, net new business stayed broadly flat. This was caused by 
subdued investor confidence during 2016 as a result of the uncertainty 
caused by volatile markets and the EU Referendum.
Net new clients 
(7)
100,000 84,000 +19.0%
Net new business 
(8)
£6.0bn £6.1bn -1.6%
Incredible service
Client satisfaction survey 
(9)
95.1% 95.7% -0.6pts The client satisfaction and net promoter score metrics remain at very 
high levels. Our internal client satisfaction score fell marginally, however, 
the external NPS increased to 54.7% amongst our clients.
Net promoter score 
(10)
54.7% 53.5% +1.2pts
Easy & efficient
Net revenue per employee 
(11)
£340,361 £325,389 +4.6% Staff productivity increased 4.6%, resulting in a revenue per employee of 
£340,361. The average number of staff employed on a full-time basis (excluding 
Directors) at 30 June 2016 was 959, up 6.5%. Net revenue increased 11%.
Operating costs increased 12.7%, in line with our strategic plans and our 
commitment to delivering a high level of service to our growing client 
base. Particular areas of growth were HL Savings, IT and our subsidiary 
company Library Information Services.
Operating costs
 (12)
£108.2m £96.1m +12.7%
Feefo account open positive 
rating 
(13)
98.7 % 96.8% +1.9pts
1. Based on monthly lost Vantage AUA as a percentage of the opening months Vantage AUA 
and averaging for the year.
2. Based on monthly lost Vantage clients as a percentage of the opening months Vantage 
clients and averaging for the year.
3. Based on monthly average numbers of accounts held and averaging for the year.
4. Profit before tax as per the Consolidated Income Statement
5. Total value of renewal commission (after deducting loyalty bonuses), management fees, 
platform fees and interest earned on client money, as a percentage of total net revenue.
6. Hargreaves Lansdown’s market share of the ‘direct platform market’ according to the 
Platforum as at March 2016 and March 2015.
7. Net new clients represents the change in number of active clients between the opening 
and closing position for the year (unique number of clients holding at least one PMS or 
Vantage account with a value over £100 at the year-end).
8. Net new business inflows represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers 
in less withdrawals and assets transferred out (refer to the Operating and Financial review 
section on page 25 to 32 for more information on net new business inflows). 
9. Based on May 2016 & May 2015 client surveys of 11,537 & 14,344 respondents, where 
service was voted as good, very good or excellent.
10. Based on May 2016 & May 2015 client surveys of 11,537 & 14,344 respondents, using the 
Net Promoter Score methodology. The survey covered Hargreaves Lansdown clients only.
11. Net revenue (gross revenue less loyalty bonus and commission payments) divided by the 
average month end number of staff (excluding Directors).
12. Operating costs for the year includes the FSCS levy but excludes loyalty bonuses.
13. The percentage of total reviews for the year rated as ‘excellent’ or ‘good’.
 
Net Promoter, NPS, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marks and Net 
Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are service marks of Bain & Company, Inc., Satmetrix 
Systems, Inc. and Fred Reich HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
25
VANTAGE
Net new business in the Vantage SIPP , ISA 
and Fund and Share account was respectively 
£2.7 billion, £2.2 billion and £1.1 billion (2015: 
£2.3 billion, £2.6 billion, £1.1 billion), in total 
£6.0 billion (2015: £6.0 billion). 
The first half of the year saw strong net new 
business of £2.73 billion, up 24% compared 
to the equivalent six months last year 
(2015: £2.21bn). This was achieved against 
a backdrop of muted world stock markets 
stemming from various macroeconomic 
concerns and weak commodity prices. The 
FTSE All-Share Index ended 3.5% down 
for the six months to 31 December 2015 at 
3444.26. Typically, falling stock markets have 
a high correlation with reduced propensity 
to invest amongst retail investors. However, 
despite the weak markets, our ISA and Fund 
and Share account new business remained 
robust during this period whilst new pension 
freedoms proved particularly attractive to 
clients, with Vantage SIPP net new business 
up 73% over the six months ended 31 
December 2015.
The second half of the year is typically our 
busiest as the tax year-end is an important 
driver of new business. This year was no 
exception with £3.21 billion of net new 
business in the second half of the year to 
30 June 2016, albeit a 15% drop versus the 
£3.79 billion in the prior year comparative 
given the more volatile market backdrop. 
The comparative period benefited from three 
HL Multi-Manager fund launches, the new 
Pension Freedoms from 6 April 2015 and the 
introduction of the ability to transfer Child 
Trust Funds into Junior ISAs. This year the 
second half also had two HL Multi-Manager 
fund launches but benefited less from the 
pension freedoms and the impact of transfers 
into Junior ISAs.
The SIPP increase in net new business of 
17% for the year was driven by an increased 
number of SIPP clients making more 
contributions and transferring other pensions 
they held to Vantage. New pension freedoms, 
introduced from 6 April 2015, have also 
continued to contribute to the increase year-
on-year, along with concerns that pension 
At 30 June 
2016
At 30 June 
2015 
Movement
(£’bn) (£’bn) % 
Vantage Assets Under Administration (AUA)* 58.7 52.3 +12%
Assets Under Administration and 
Management (AUM)**
- Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 2.9 2.9   0%
- Multi-Manager funds held outside of PMS 3.6 2.9   +24%
AUM Total 6.5 5.8 +12%
Less: 
Multi-Manager funds (AUM) included in 
Vantage AUA
(3.5) (2.9) +21%
Total Assets Under Administration 61.7 55.2 +12%
* AUA is the total value of all assets administered or managed by Hargreaves Lansdown on behalf of clients 
** AUM is the total value of all assets managed by Hargreaves Lansdown comprising our Multi-Manager 
Funds and assets held within PMS.
ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION (AUA) AND NET NEW 
BUSINESS (NNB)
The value of total AUA increased by 12% during the year. The Group achieved net new 
business inflows of £6.0 billion, and the positive impact of investment performance 
increased client assets by a further £0.5 billion (2015: £2.0bn). High client and asset 
retention rates underpin the strength of the Hargreaves Lansdown business model.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CHRISTOPHER HILL
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
26
tax relief would be reduced in the March 
2016 budget, which prompted a rush of 
contributions. 
Conversely, net new ISA business of £2.2bn 
for the year decreased by 15% which was 
attributable to an array of factors including 
low investor confidence, diverting money into 
pensions in case of tax relief changes in the 
Budget, and into property ahead of stamp 
duty increases taking effect from 6 April 
2016. These factors led to a decrease in the 
number of clients subscribing to their ISA and 
a reduction in the average subscription value. 
Meanwhile Vantage Fund and Share account 
net new business was flat year-on-year. This 
account has no tax benefits and no caps on 
contributions and tends to be impacted more 
by investor confidence and market sentiment. 
It often serves as a destination for investment 
once clients have used their tax wrapper 
accounts and also serves as the first point of 
call when withdrawing cash. In addition, each 
year a proportion of clients transfer some of 
their investments from this account into their 
SIPP and ISA accounts ensuring they utilise 
their tax benefits. The value transferred this 
year was £0.5 billion compared to £0.6 billion 
last year.
The trust and the value that our clients 
place on our services are endorsed by the 
retention rates. This year our client retention 
rate rose from 93.4% to 94.3% and our asset 
retention rate rose from 92.7% to 93.5%.
The FTSE All-Share Index fell by 1.54% (2015: 
fell 0.82%) over the year to 30 June 2016, 
however the average month-end level of the 
index was 5.1% lower this year compared to 
last (2015: 2.0% higher). Although the index 
ended the second half up 2.1% at 3515.45, 
it suffered significant spells of depression 
caused by various macroeconomic concerns 
and latterly volatility caused by the 
uncertainty surrounding the EU referendum. 
Weak investor confidence contributed to a 
challenging ISA season which some industry 
bodies have called the worst ISA season on 
record.
The combined impact of organic growth and 
investment performance resulted in SIPP AUA 
growing by 18%, ISA by 11% and the Fund and 
Share account by 9%. As at 30 June 2016, the 
value of assets within the Vantage SIPP was 
£19.3 billion (30 June 2015: £16.4 billion), 
the Vantage ISA was £23.0 billion (30 June 
2015: £20.7 billion), and the Vantage Fund 
and Share Account was £16.5 billion (30 June 
2015: £15.2 billion).
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SERVICE (PMS)
PMS assets remained flat at £2.9 billion with 
net new business of £66 million, down 8% on 
last year’s £72 million. These additional new 
assets were offset by the impact of a stock 
market decline of £52 million (2015: £169 
million growth). PMS remains a core service 
provided by Hargreaves Lansdown, however, 
the gathering of new assets and clients has 
been behind expectations. A review of the 
service is being undertaken with a view to 
improving lead flows and the quality of the 
offering for clients.
MULTI-MANAGER FUNDS
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves 
Lansdown through its own range of Multi-
Manager funds increased by 13% to £6.3 
billion as at 30 June 2016 (2015: £5.6bn). 
The growth in assets consisted of net new 
business of £0.8 billion (2015: £0.9bn), 
combined with a stock market decrease of 
£0.1 billion (2015: increase of £0.3bn). During 
the second half of the year two new Multi-
Manager funds were successfully launched 
helping to attract new clients and assets. 
The two new funds are “UK High Income” 
and “Strategic Assets” which provide further 
geographical and sector diversification to 
the eight existing funds in the range. In the 
short time since launch these two funds have 
grown to a combined value of £382m. 
DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE
Following the implementation of the Retail 
Distribution Review (“RDR”), we highlight the 
net revenue of the Group, as laid out in note 
4 to the accounts. This measure provides a 
clear indication of year-on-year comparative 
performance, taking into account the changes 
in commission, charges and rebates. Total 
net revenue was up 11% for the year at 
£326.5 million (2015: £294.2m). The Group is 
organised into three core operating divisions 
as shown in the table below. 
VANTAGE
Revenue
The Vantage division is the largest within the 
Group and represents 75% of net revenue 
and 76% of operating profit. Net revenue 
increased by 12% and was driven by the 12% 
growth in AUA this year and the full year 
impact of income on assets gathered over the 
course of last year. Revenue from funds grew 
from £136.7 million to £147.2 million with a 
slight reduction in the revenue margin from 
46bps to 44bps as a result of there being 
no renewal commissions retained on funds 
held by clients from 1 April 2016 onwards, 
in accordance with the Retail Distribution 
Review. Interest on client money grew 
from £24.2 million to £31.2 million with an 
improved margin being achieved on higher 
cash balances as a result of changes to our 
SIPP which allowed us to place client money 
Net revenue Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’million
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’million
% 
Movement
Vantage 245.8 220.0 +12%
Discretionary 58.9 52.4 +12%
Third Party & Other 
services 21.8 21.8 0%
Total net revenue 326.5 294.2 +11% HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
27
on term deposit, a significant development 
as over 50% of cash held by clients with 
Hargreaves Lansdown is held in the SIPP , and 
enabling us to increase both revenue and 
deposit rates paid to clients. 
Stockbroking commission grew by 21% from 
£35.4 million to £43.0 million benefiting 
from increased stockbroking volumes and 
the removal of the impact in the prior year 
of a temporary c£3.5 million loss of revenue, 
resulting from a restructuring of the collection 
method for foreign exchange income on 
overseas equity deals. Excluding this 
comparative effect, stockbroking commission 
was up 10.5%. 
We handled over 12.1 million dealing 
instructions on behalf of 827,000 clients 
relating to funds and shares (2015: 10.8m). 
Our website (www.hl.co.uk) and apps were 
visited 104.7 million times, an increase of 
19% on the previous year. Vantage clients 
transacted 3.7 million share deals in the year 
(2015: 3.4 million). Share deals comprise both 
client driven deals and automated deals such 
as dividend income reinvestment and regular 
savings. Client driven deals totalled 3.0 
million compared to 2.8 million last year. 
Markets and market share
The Vantage division delivered consistent 
strong growth in assets and clients and 
has increased market share in the services 
it provides. Our market share of the retail 
platform execution only market stands at 
c37.5% making it over four times the size of 
the second largest. The retail platform market 
as at 31 March 2016 was valued at c£152* 
billion of which £56.6 billion was held on 
Vantage.
The addressable market for Vantage is much 
greater than the retail platform market given 
the scope of services and products that 
Hargreaves Lansdown provide. Vantage 
accounts can be used by both Retail and 
Corporate clients in order to hold a wide 
range of investments in a SIPP , ISA or 
general investment account. This enables 
us to address a much greater section of UK 
investors and the billions of pounds currently 
held away from retail platforms. For example 
the ISA Stocks and Share market is estimated 
at £267 billion and the Junior Stocks and 
Share ISA at £1 billion**. The UK SIPP market 
is estimated at £175 billion***. In addition, 
corporate pensions and assets currently or 
previously advised on by financial advisors 
through IFAs, banks, building societies and 
life assurers are also addressable.
From 6 April 2015 the Government allowed 
transfers from Child Trust Funds (CTFs) 
to Junior ISAs. At this date over six million 
children in the UK had CTFs with c£4.8 
billion pounds invested. In the year ending 
30 June 2016 we have seen over 12,000 
transfers from CTFs to Junior ISAs cementing 
Hargreaves Lansdown’s position as the 
largest provider of Junior Stocks and Shares 
ISAs in the UK.
Vantage SIPP assets of £19.3 billion give 
Hargreaves Lansdown an estimated 11% 
market share of the UK SIPP market with 
276,000 SIPP accounts out of an estimated 
total of 1.4 million UK SIPP accounts. The 
Group is also the UK’s largest execution only 
stockbroker with a market share of 27.3% as 
measured by Compeer Limited in their XO 
Quarterly Benchmarking Report Q2 2016. 
Market development
The markets for the Group’s products and 
services continue to evolve as individuals’ 
savings and investment needs react to the 
changing regulatory and market environment. 
With continued low interest rates, Stocks and 
Shares ISAs remain attractive. The current 
ISA allowance of £15,240 for the tax year 
commencing 6 April 2016 remains the same 
as that in the previous tax year, however, as 
from 6 April 2017 the annual allowance will 
increase significantly to £20,000. For some 
clients this will provide additional scope for 
tax efficient investing and an opportunity to 
increase net flows into our ISA offering.
From 6 April 2017 the new Lifetime ISA 
(”LISA”) will be launched. This is open to UK 
citizens between the ages of 18 and 40 and 
any savings added to the LISA before their 
50th birthday will receive an added 25% 
bonus from the government. The savings 
allowance will be capped at £4,000 per 
annum and can be used towards a deposit 
on a first home worth up to £450,000 or 
can be used towards saving for retirement, 
whereby after their 60th birthday individuals 
can withdraw all the savings free of tax. This 
may provide fresh impetus for adults to boost 
their long-term savings and for others to 
start saving for the first time and to consider 
saving using risk based investments rather 
than cash. Hargreaves Lansdown will have its 
LISA offering in place for the 6 April 2017. 
Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is 
currently being phased in and by 2017 all 
employers will have to auto-enrol eligible 
staff into a suitable workplace pension and 
pay contributions on their behalf. Escalating 
minimum contributions have been set. By 6 
April 2019 the minimum contribution will be 
9% of which the employer will have to pay a 
minimum of 4%. The workplace will continue 
to play a pivotal role in retirement saving: the 
auto-enrolment programme has delivered 
demonstrable successes and we expect 
future government policy to build on this. 
Our Corporate Vantage service is directed 
at segments of this market and existing 
schemes we administer will also benefit from 
auto-enrolment contributions. 
The design of the UK’s retirement savings 
system continues to be a work in progress 
for the government. Auto-enrolment is 
undoubtedly helping and is bringing millions 
of new savers into the pension system. 
However, many millions are still either 
under-saving for retirement or not saving at 
all. The growth of money purchase pensions 
is mirrored by a rapid decline in traditional 
defined benefit schemes.
A year on from the launch of Pension 
Freedoms, this policy initiative to put 
ownership of pension savings more directly 
in the hands of individual investors is proving 
popular and has helped to reinvigorate 
interest in retirement savings. The Treasury’s 
recent review of pension tax relief did not 
result in wholesale change to pension tax 
breaks, however future changes cannot be 
ruled out.
* Source: The Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2016
** Source: HMRC
*** Source: John Moret, pension industry specialist HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
28
Whatever changes of detail occur, we are 
confident that Government support for 
increased private pension provision is robust 
and this is likely to mean continued tax 
advantages and policy decisions designed to 
promote increased retirement saving. With 
individuals taking more responsibility for 
pension saving, we believe pension providers 
such as Hargreaves Lansdown which help 
investors to self-manage their retirement 
savings are likely to continue to prosper. 
Clients and assets
During the year the number of active Vantage 
clients increased by 100,000 to 827,000. 
Total clients include 68,600 active Corporate 
Vantage scheme members across 333 live 
schemes and 64,000 Junior ISA clients. 
Junior ISA clients were up from 43,000 last 
year benefiting from over 12,000 transfers 
of Child Trust Funds to Junior ISAs which 
were allowed from 6 April 2015. We now 
administer 276,000 SIPP accounts, 572,000 
ISA accounts and 274,000 Fund and Share 
accounts on behalf of our clients.
16% more clients contributed to their 
SIPP than in the year to 30 June 2015, 
with the average new contribution into a 
Vantage SIPP this year increasing by 3% to 
£9,188. Meanwhile the number of clients 
subscribing to their Vantage Stocks and 
Share ISA decreased by 5% and the average 
subscription decreased by 7% to £9,416. 
Clients continued to transfer SIPP , ISA and 
other investments held elsewhere into our 
Vantage service in order to benefit from the 
advantages of having them all held on a single 
trusted and easy to use service. The value of 
transfers-in decreased by 4% to £4.8 billion. 
Clients continued to have a relatively low 
weighting in cash and appeared prepared to 
take more investment risk given continued 
low deposit rates. In the second half of the 
year, however, there has been a move into 
cash caused by market volatility and Brexit 
concerns weighing on investor confidence. 
The composition of assets across the whole 
of Vantage at 30 June 2016 was 11.6% cash 
(30 June 2015: 10.2%), 34.1% stocks and 
shares (30 June 2015: 34.2%), and 54.3% 
investment funds (30 June 2015: 55.6%). 
A number of our clients make regular 
contributions into their ISA, SIPP or Fund and 
Share accounts. The ‘Regular Savers’ service 
has been consistently growing since being 
introduced 14 years ago, and as at 30 June 
2016 we had 125,000 clients (2015: 105,000) 
saving a total of £37.0 million (2015: £34.4 
million) each month by way of direct debit 
instruction. Our Corporate Vantage service has 
the potential to significantly increase the value 
of regular monthly savings and Corporate 
Vantage clients currently subscribe £20.3 
million each month, in addition to the regular 
contributions noted above.
DISCRETIONARY AND MANAGED
The Discretionary and Managed division 
represents 18% of net revenue and 21% of 
operating profit. The division earns recurring 
income on underlying investments held in the 
Group’s Portfolio Management Service (PMS), 
and on investments in the Group’s Multi-
Manager funds. 
Net revenue was up 12% from £52.4 million 
to £58.9 million. As explained, the growth 
in AUM came from the launch of two new 
HL Multi-Manager Funds combined with 
continued growth across the existing eight 
funds. AUM was on average up 14% across 
the year and Hargreaves Lansdown earns 
a management fee of 0.75% per annum on 
assets held in these funds.
The Portfolio Management Service generates 
revenue from initial and ongoing advice fees 
charged to clients who are supported by our 
team of financial advisers. Client numbers 
grew to 14,896 from 14,845 in the prior year. 
As at 30 June 2016 the Group had 91 financial 
advisers (30 June 2015: 102). Initial advice 
fees were flat year-on-year at £2.9 million 
whilst ongoing advice and management fees 
fell from £11.7 million to £10.7 million. The 
ongoing advice fee is charged at 0.365% per 
annum but as from 1 December 2015 any 
PMS client with an investment portfolio in 
excess of £1 million had a cap of £3,650 per 
annum on the charge. The impact of this was 
a reduction in revenue of c£0.3 million in the 
year. Further changes to management fees on 
non-HL Multi-Manager funds held within PMS 
had a £0.7 million impact on the division but 
a reduced impact on the Group overall due to 
a 0.06% increase in PMS platform fees which 
are recorded in Vantage. 
THIRD PARTY AND OTHER SERVICES
Third party and other services represent 7% 
of net revenue and 3% of operating profit and 
the division distributes investment products 
that are not invested or administered within 
the Group. Net revenues were flat year-on-
year at £21.8 million. 
In March 2014 the government’s budget 
implemented pension reforms introducing 
greater flexibility in terms of how people 
access their pension savings. As a result the 
demand for annuities declined significantly, 
which particularly impacted last year’s 
revenue, but has continued into 2016 with 
commission income falling from £1.9 million 
to £1.5 million this year. As annuity volumes 
have declined we have seen an increase in 
clients moving into Income Drawdown and 
the associated recurring revenue streams 
from this service are recorded within the 
Vantage division. 
Revenue from our Funds Library service, 
through the provision of fund data and 
research services, decreased slightly from 
£6.4 million to £6.2 million. User billing and 
implementation fees fell slightly but were 
partly offset by new revenue streams relating 
to the provision of data for compliance with 
Solvency II. These new streams commenced 
towards the end of the year and should 
help to provide some future growth as more 
companies sign up for these new regulatory 
required services.
The total revenues from Hargreaves 
Lansdown Currency and Markets (Contracts 
For Difference, spread betting and currency 
services) fell marginally by £0.1 million to 
£4.1 million. A fall in certificated dealing 
charges and currency service commissions 
were partly offset by an increase in CFD and 
spread betting commissions which tend to 
benefit from volatile markets such as those  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
29
Year ended
30 June 2016
£’million
Year ended
30 June 2015 
£’milion
Movement
%
Revenue 388.3 395.1 -2%
Commission payable / loyalty bonus (61.8) (100.9) -39%
Net revenue 326.5 294.2 +11%
Other operating costs (102.7) (91.7) +12%
Total FSCS levy      (5.5) (4.4) +25%
Operating profit 218.3 198.1 +10%
Non-operating income 0.6 1.0 -40%
Profit before taxation 218.9 199.0 +10%
Taxation (41.6) (41.8) -0.5%
Profit after taxation 177.3 157.2 +13%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 37.4 33.2 +13%
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 37.3 33.1 +13%
seen for much of the year. 
As highlighted previously, third party 
corporate and personal pension business 
has been in decline over recent years. 
Although the Group continues to act as an 
intermediary for some third party corporate 
pension schemes there is a focus on our own 
Corporate Vantage services which means 
that we expect that third party business will 
continue to decline. 
TOTAL NET REVENUE
Total net revenue for the year grew 11% to 
£326.5 million. Record levels of AUA, £6.0 
billion net new business, new active clients 
and increased transaction volumes have all 
been positive factors which have more than 
outweighed the loss of any Vantage renewal 
income post the April 2016 sunset clause. 
Divisional revenue performance is described 
earlier in this review.
Net revenue margins 
Clients can hold a range of assets on the 
Vantage platform including investment funds, 
individual shares and other stock, and cash. 
The net revenue margin earned on each asset 
class varies. Investment funds on average 
represented 57% of Vantage AUA and the 
net revenue margin earned was 0.44% 
(2015: 0.46%). The reduction related to the 
previously flagged transition phase of RDR 
until March 2016. From April 2016 we have 
been earning 0.42%. 
Shares on average represented 33% of 
Vantage AUA. The net revenue margin on 
shares and other stock was 0.30% (2015: 
0.29%) with revenue being generated from 
equity deals and management fees. The 
increase in margin has been caused by an 
increase in equity dealing volumes combined 
with the change to charges on overseas 
foreign exchange income in the second half 
of the year (as highlighted on page 27). 
There are caps in place on management fees 
charged in the SIPP and Stocks and Share ISA 
accounts once holdings are above £44,444 in 
the SIPP and £10,000 in the ISA. This causes 
some dilution to the margin over time as 
clients grow their portfolio of shares.
Cash on average represented 10% of 
Vantage AUA. The net revenue margin on 
cash balances was 0.56% (2015: 0.53%). 
As highlighted in previous annual reports, 
the FCA introduced restrictions on the use 
of term deposits of greater than 30 days for 
client money with effect from 1 July 2014. 
This served to reduce the revenue margin on 
cash and consequently we set out to mitigate 
the impact of these restrictions by amending 
SIPP cash to be held in trustee arrangements 
which would allow term deposits to be 
used again. This trustee arrangement was 
implemented from 20 April 2015. The new 
arrangements have allowed us to offer higher 
interest rates for clients in the SIPP whilst 
also helping to boost the margin and revenue 
we earn. Last year the benefit was only 
gained for a couple of months whereas this 
year we have had the benefit for the full year. 
Although the SIPP trustee arrangements have 
helped, the full potential positive impact has 
been offset by an overall reduction in rates 
offered by banks, particularly on short term 
deposits up to 30 days which impacts non-
SIPP client money accounting for c49% of 
the total client money balances. Since the 30 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
30
Vantage net 
revenue margins
Year ended 30 June 2016 Year ended 30 June 2015
Net revenue 
(£m)
Average AUA 
(£bn)
Net revenue 
margin (%)
Net revenue (£m) Average AUA 
(£bn)
Net revenue 
margin (%)
Funds
1
147.2 33.3 0.44 136.7 29.7 0.46
Shares
2
57.8 19.3 0.30 47.9 16.6 0.29
Cash
3
31.2 5.5 0.56 24.2 4.6 0.53
Other 9.6 - - 11.2 - -
Total 245.8 58.1 0.42 220.0 50.9 0.43
June 2016 the Bank of England has reduced 
the base rate by 0.25%. Assuming no further 
base rate changes we anticipate the cash 
interest margin for the financial year 2017 will 
be in the range of 0.35%-0.45%.
Recurring and non-recurring revenue
£193.1 million (2015: £173.3m), representing 
79% of Vantage net revenue (2015: 79%) 
is recurring in nature. Recurring revenue 
streams comprised platform fees (£139.4m, 
2015: £123.8m), renewal commissions net 
of loyalty bonuses paid to clients (£7.7m, 
2015: £12.9m), management fees (£14.8m, 
2015: £12.4m) and interest on client money 
(£31.2m, 2015: £24.2m). Although these 
revenues can be directly impacted by 
stock markets and bank deposit rates they 
are recurring and as such we believe they 
provide greater profit resilience. Non-
recurring Vantage revenue streams include 
stockbroking commission, initial charges 
where our own financial advisers set clients 
up in the Vantage service, and other income.
The Discretionary division has an even 
higher proportion of net recurring revenue 
at 93% (2015: 92%), which is primarily the 
annual management charge on the HL Multi-
Manager funds (£44.1m, 2015: £36.5m) and 
the management fees and ongoing adviser 
charges for the PMS service (£10.7m, 2015: 
£11.7m). In contrast the Third party and Other 
Services division is predominantly transaction 
based save for some renewal commissions 
on Venture Capital Trusts schemes and some 
contracted revenue within the Funds Library 
data service. 
OPERATING COSTS 
As highlighted in the Chief Executive 
statement, the business is well positioned to 
take advantage of the structural opportunity 
for growth in the savings and investments 
market. We have discretion over the timing 
of controlled, selective investment where 
we are confident in delivering attractive 
returns for our shareholders and will take 
advantage of this flexibility to deliver good 
returns. Operating costs increased by 13% to 
£108.2million (2015: £96.1million) during the 
year with 7% growth in operating costs in the 
second half, compared to 19% in the first half.
Staff costs remain our largest expense 
and increased by 13% in the year, after 
capitalising £2.3 million (2015: £1.2m) of 
Hargreaves Lansdown Savings and other IT 
developments. The number of staff employed 
on a full-time equivalent basis (including 
Directors) at 30 June 2016 was 942, and the 
average number of staff during the year was 
969, an increase of 6%. The changes in staff 
1 Revenue from funds comprises platform fees and renewal commission (net of loyalty bonuses paid to clients).
2 Revenue from stocks and other comprises stockbroking commission and management fees.
3 Revenue from cash comprises interest earned on client money.
Further details on the Vantage net revenue margins above can be found in the Glossary of Alternative Financial Performance Measures on page 144.
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’million
Year ended
30 June 2015
£’million
% 
Movement
Operating costs:
Staff costs 60.2 53.1 +13%
Marketing and distribution costs 11.2 12.7 -12%
Office running costs 4.8 4.3 +12%
Depreciation, amortisation & 
financial costs 6.1 5.1 +20%
Other costs 20.4 16.5 +24%
102.7 91.7 +12%
Total FSCS levy 5.5 4.4 +25%
Total operating costs 108.2 96.1 +13% HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
31
numbers are in line with our strategic plans 
and our commitment to delivering a high level 
of service to our growing client base which 
will see us maintain our position as the UK’s 
leading direct to client investment platform. 
Of particular note are increased staff numbers 
in HL Savings where we are developing a new 
digital cash deposit service and a Peer to 
Peer platform; in IT, where we have increased 
resource to deliver development projects, 
improved infrastructure and cyber security; 
in marketing, where we have increasingly 
focused on exploiting digital opportunities 
and in our subsidiary company, Library 
Information Services, where additional staff 
have been developing new services relating 
to Solvency II type products. Staff costs this 
year versus last include an additional £1.3 
million of restructuring and redundancy costs 
and £0.6 million additional cost relating to 
share options.
Group marketing and distribution spend 
decreased by 12%, from £12.7 million to 
£11.2 million and includes the direct costs 
of printing and sending information and 
newsletters to existing and potential clients, 
media advertising, online marketing and 
client incentives. Despite the lower spend, the 
change in mix of our marketing activity with 
more emphasis and investment into digital 
marketing meant that we added 100,000 
clients (2015: 84,000), new business was flat 
on last year and we have increased market 
share. 
Use of mobile and digital media is a key 
strategic focus and increasingly resource 
has been deployed to exploit digital 
marketing opportunities and this has allowed 
commensurately lower spend on paper based 
marketing. We continue to invest significantly 
in paid search traffic, cost per click 
relationships, and the next generation of our 
smart phone and tablet apps. Our strength 
in digital media helps drive client and asset 
recruitment and subsequent retention.  
Last financial year saw the launch of three 
new HL Multi-Manager Funds, the launch of 
the HL Retirement Planner embracing the 
new pension freedoms and the launch of HL 
Portfolio+, all of which gave rise to increased 
marketing and advertising costs. This financial 
year there were fewer such events with just 
two new HL Multi-Manager fund launches.
Office running costs increased from £4.3 
million to £4.8 million following an increase in 
repairs and maintenance and business rates. 
Depreciation, amortisation and financial costs 
have increased by £1.0 million as a result 
of increased capital spend in recent years, 
primarily on IT hardware and software for our 
core in-house systems. 
Other costs rose by £3.9 million. The key 
drivers of this were the processing of foreign 
exchange on overseas equity deals (£1.5m) 
and additional dealing costs resulting from 
higher transaction volumes (£0.3m). Also 
included in this figure are increases in IT, 
regulatory spend and irrecoverable VAT (£1.1 
m) and an increase in professional services 
relating to strategic initiatives (£0.8m).
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(“FSCS”) charge is outside of managements’ 
control and increased by 25% to £5.5million. 
The FSCS is the compensation fund of last 
resort for customers of authorised financial 
services firms. All authorised firms are 
required to contribute to the running of 
the scheme and the cost of compensation 
payments. Contributions to the scheme are 
proportional to the amount of eligible income 
of a firm, rather than its risk profile or track 
record of running a compliant service.  As 
such, as a large business we may be required 
to make a significant contribution to the cost 
of compensation on investments we have 
never recommended or been involved with.
TAXATION
The charge for taxation in the income 
statement decreased from £41.8 million to 
£41.6 million resulting in an effective tax 
rate of 19.0% compared to 21.0% last year. 
The standard UK corporation tax rate fell 
from 21% to 20% as from 1 April 2015 and 
remained at 20% through to 30 June 2016. 
An adjustment in respect of prior year tax and 
the impact of increased capital allowances 
and employee share acquisition relief in the 
period reduced the effective corporation 
tax rate below the standard 20% to 19.0%. 
Taxation of £3.1 million has been credited 
to equity relating to corporation tax relief 
on share options offset by a charge of £1.9 
million arising from deferred tax on share 
options giving a total credit to equity of  
£1.2 million. 
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Diluted EPS increased by 13% from 33.1 
pence to 37.3 pence. EPS is calculated as 
the earnings for the year divided by the total 
weighted average fully diluted number of 
shares, including those held by the Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “EBT”). Further information 
on the EBT and potential dilution of share 
capital is provided within the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
PENSION SCHEMES
There were no changes to the defined 
contribution pension scheme in the year, with 
staff and Directors participating on equal 
terms. Pension costs are recognised as an 
expense when the contribution is payable.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
AND CASH FLOW
The Group maintains a robust balance sheet 
which is free from debt, has a healthy ratio of 
current assets to current liabilities and retains 
a capital base over and above regulatory 
capital adequacy requirements. In addition to 
being attractive to clients, this provides both 
resilience and flexibility. The Group is highly 
cash generative and the cash conversion ratio 
measured by the operating cash flows as a 
percentage of operating profits remained high 
at 94%.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Capital expenditure totalled £6.6 million this 
year, compared with £5.5 million last year. 
The cyclical replacement of hardware 
ensuring the capacity and the security of the  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
32
IT infrastructure amounted to £2.4 million 
compared with £2.5 million last year.  
£1.4 million was spent on computer software 
(2015: £1.7m) and capitalisation of other 
intangibles was £2.7 million (2015:  
£1.2 million). 
We capitalised £1.2 million of staff costs 
(2015 £1.2 million) as part of the continued 
project to enhance the capacity and capability 
of our key administration systems. All of our 
core systems are developed and maintained 
in-house and as such we have significant 
IT resource dedicated to IT support and 
development. For the year ended 30 June 
2016 an average of 117 staff (2015: 102) 
were employed in developing our systems 
with most of their related costs expensed 
within staff costs. Any costs relating to the 
development of new systems have been 
capitalised and are being depreciated over 
their useful economic life.
We have capitalised £1.1 million of staff 
costs relating to the development of the 
cash deposit and Peer to Peer platforms in 
HL Savings (2015: £nil). Again this will be 
depreciated over its useful economic life but 
only once it has been brought into use which 
is expected to be towards the end of the 
calendar year 2016. 
Finally we capitalised £0.4 million relating to 
a book of business that was acquired from 
J.P . Morgan. As a result of the acquisition an 
additional £223 million of assets were added 
to the Vantage platform and an additional 
4,312 clients. At the interim results these 
costs were expensed within marketing 
and advertising, but they will be now be 
amortised over their useful economic life and 
subject to an annual impairment review. 
CURRENT ASSETS
Group cash balances totalled £208.2 million 
at the end of the year. The only significant 
cash outflows have been the 2015 second 
interim ordinary and special dividends 
totalling £121.4 million paid in September 
2015 and a 2016 interim dividend of £36.8 
million paid in March 2016. 
Capital is defined as the total of share 
capital, share premium, retained earnings 
and other reserves. Total capital at 30 June 
2016 was £254.2 million (2015: £237.1m) 
and this capital is managed via the net 
assets to which it relates. The Group has 
four subsidiary companies authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). These firms have capital 
resources at a level which satisfies both their 
regulatory capital requirements and their 
working capital requirements. As a Group, 
we maintain a robust balance sheet retaining 
a capital base over and above regulatory 
capital requirements. Further disclosures are 
published in the Pillar 3 document on the 
Group’s website at www.hl.co.uk.
INCREASE IN COUNTERPARTY BALANCES
In accordance with market practice, certain 
balances with clients, Stock Exchange 
member firms and other counterparties are 
included in the balance sheet. These balances 
fluctuate according to the volume and value 
of recent trading. At the year-end, trade 
receivables and trade payables included 
counterparty balances of £560.9 million 
(2015: £363.2 million) and £555.5 million 
(2015: £361.9 million) respectively. The 
higher balances resulted from a significant 
increase in deal volumes post the EU 
Referendum until the financial year-end.
DIVIDENDS
The Board remains committed to a 
progressive dividend policy, and has declared 
a second interim (final) ordinary dividend of 
16.30 pence and a special dividend of 9.90 
pence per ordinary share. These dividends 
will be paid on 28 September 2016 to all 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 16 September 2016. This brings 
the total dividends in respect of the year 
to 34.0 pence per ordinary share (2015: 
33.0p), an increase of 3%. This total ordinary 
dividend pay-out equates to 65% (2015: 
65%) of post-tax profits, with a further 26% 
(2015: 34%) of post-tax profits paid by way 
of special dividend. Any special dividend in 
future years will depend upon future cash 
requirements and therefore may vary.
An arrangement exists under which the 
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has agreed to 
waive all dividends.
Christopher Hill
Chief Financial Officer 
6 September 2016
Dividend (pence per share) 2016 2015 Change
First interim dividend paid 7.80p 7.30p +7%
Second interim dividend declared 16.30p 14.30p +14%
Total ordinary dividend 24.10p 21.60p +12%
Special dividend declared 9.90p 11.40p -13%
Total dividend for the year 34.0p 33.0p +3% HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
33
MANAGING OUR RISKS 
THE RISK AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Hargreaves Lansdown comprises of 11 
active legal entities, but manages risk at a 
consolidated level, ensuring all categories of 
risk are covered. The Group’s risk framework 
and the internal control framework are 
designed to manage risk within agreed 
appetite levels and aligned to delivering both 
the Group strategy and good outcomes for 
our clients.
GOVERNANCE OF THE RISK AND 
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Risk management is acknowledged to 
be a core responsibility of everyone at 
Hargreaves Lansdown. Oversight of risk and 
controls management is provided by Board 
committees and the Risk Team, which is part 
of the Group Risk and Compliance function. 
Key governance committees relating 
specifically to the maintenance and oversight 
of the risk and control environment are the 
Executive Committee, the Executive Risk 
Committee (ERC), CASS Committee, the 
Board Risk Committees Audit Committee and 
the Investment Committee.
It is understood by the Chairs of all 
Committees, both Board and Executive, that 
risk is a core theme which is evident in all 
committee debates and discussions. 
The activities of the Board and Executive 
Committees are detailed in the Corporate 
Governance section, pp37-43. 
There are three sub-committees of the 
Executive Committee that support the 
management of the risk and internal control 
framework. As explained on p.41, the 
Investment Committee is a sub-committee 
of the Executive Committee, which is chaired 
by Jayne Styles, Non-Executive Director. From 
2017 the Board has agreed to a change to 
the Terms of Reference making it a sub-
committee of the Board.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The basis for the Internal Control Framework 
is the ‘three lines of defence’ model. Risk 
management is primarily the responsibility of 
the operational teams which constitute the 
‘first line’. Oversight and guidance is provided 
by the ‘second line’ through the Risk and 
Compliance department and the Legal team. 
Independent oversight of the internal controls 
of the business is the responsibility of the 
Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit function reports to the 
Audit Committee, to ensure its independence 
from the business. The Internal Audit function 
is subject to an external effectiveness review 
on a periodic basis.
Both the Internal Audit function and the 
Compliance Monitoring team perform a 
number of audits during the year covering the 
adequacy of controls and compliance with 
regulation. 
Results from this assurance activity are 
reported to both the Executive Committee 
and the Board and shared for action with 
the operational teams around the business. 
Progress against actions is monitored and 
reported on by the Compliance Monitoring 
team and Internal Audit respectively. 
The Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
principal risks that it faces. The Board has 
reviewed the process over the course of 
the year. The Board considers acceptance 
of appropriate risks to be an integral part 
of business and unacceptable levels of risk 
are avoided or reduced and, in some cases, 
transferred to third parties. Internal controls 
are used to identify and manage risk. The 
Directors acknowledge their responsibility 
Third Line 
of Defence - 
Internal Audit
First Line of
Defence - the 
operational
teams 
Second Line 
of Defence - 
Compliance 
& Risk 
Investment 
Committee
CASS
Committee
Treasury 
Committee
Executive Risk 
Committee
Plc Board
Executive Committee
Board Commitees
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Board Risk 
Committee HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
34
for establishing and maintaining the Group’s 
system of internal control, and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives. It provides reasonable 
but not absolute assurance as to the  
effectiveness of the safeguards protecting 
the business against the risk of material error, 
loss or fraud. In that context, the review, in 
the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that 
the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory 
and the Board is not aware of any change to 
this status up to the date of approval of this 
Annual Report. 
The Board has carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control environment and such 
reviews are supported on an ongoing basis 
by the work of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
The Board is satisfied that processes are in 
place to ensure that risks are appropriately 
managed. 
At the end of the year the Chief Risk 
Officer prepared a report on the design and 
operating effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls and presented it to the Risk 
Committee. The report included a review 
of processes in place to report and monitor 
risk appetite, risk tolerance and exposures 
and reviewed the effectiveness of mitigating 
strategies and risk management procedures. 
It also recognised improvements that 
had been made to the Risk Management 
Framework during the period. Having 
challenged and discussed the report’s 
conclusions, the Risk Committee then 
commended it to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is tasked by the Board 
to review and recommend the statements 
to be included within the report concerning 
internal controls. The report from the 
Risk Committee is a key input into its 
consideration. In addition, as well as reports 
from Internal Audit throughout the year, 
the Audit Committee received a report from 
the Head of Internal Audit expressing his 
independent view of the design and operating 
effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls throughout the year. The committee 
also considered its consultations with the 
External Auditors through the year, its own 
regular review of controls self-assessment 
reports and the Group’s “tone from the top” 
with regard to risk management and control. 
Any control weaknesses that these 
procedures identify are monitored and 
addressed in the normal course of business. 
None of the weaknesses identified in the year 
to 30 June 2016 have resulted in any material 
losses, contingencies or uncertainties that 
would require disclosure in the Group’s 
Annual Report. 
RISK FRAMEWORK
The Hargreaves Lansdown Risk Framework 
comprises a number of elements. The core 
elements for capturing, managing and then 
reporting and monitoring risks are the Risk 
Universe, Risk Appetite and Risk Reporting 
Process.
Risk Universe
Hargreaves Lansdown has a comprehensive 
Risk Framework, capturing both forward 
looking and current business risks. Materials 
are reviewed by the Board and Executive 
Management on a rolling basis with support 
from the second line business functions. 
The Company has a documented and agreed 
Risk Universe, which sets out the high level 
risk categories to which the business is 
exposed and to which all risks are linked. 
Risks are captured both top-down and 
bottom-up with clear ownership. The Risk 
Universe ensures that there is completeness 
in the capture of risks and that there is 
consistency of treatment across all risk 
categories. The Executive and Departmental 
Risk categories are explained in the Risk 
Reporting section below.
Risk is reported on a monthly basis at the 
ERC and at every Board Risk Committee 
by the Risk Team, ensuring that there are 
appropriate levels of transparency, discussion 
and challenge.
Risk Appetite
Hargreaves Lansdown has agreed risk 
appetite statements and risk tolerance levels. 
The appetite statements cover all areas of the 
Risk Universe. These are agreed by the Board 
Executive Risks Departmental Risks
Strategic Financial
Emerging Operational HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
35
and are monitored and managed within the 
risk and control framework. Through the use 
of the Risk Framework the business balances 
risk and reward within the capital adequacy 
levels agreed within the Risk and Control 
Governance Framework by the Board under 
the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) regime. 
For each risk appetite statement the Board 
has agreed inner and outer limits, which 
set out the levels for formal escalation. A 
breach of the inner level requires escalation 
to the ERC (or the Treasury Committee 
if applicable), a breach of the outer level 
requires escalation to the Board Risk 
Committee.
A further layer of risk appetite management 
is in place through the operational risk 
limits agreed for the risks captured under 
the Operational Risk category. These are 
managed by the Risk Team, with oversight 
and approval from the ERC. 
Risk Reporting Process
The Hargreaves Lansdown risk universe 
consists of Executive Risks and Departmental 
Risks. The Executive Risks are the forward 
looking risk profile and are made up of two 
risk sets: strategic and emerging. 
The Departmental Risks are the consolidated 
view of the risks to which the business is 
currently exposed and managed in the course 
of normal business activity.
The first line of defence owns and is 
responsible for managing risk. There are 
also teams with areas of specific focus to 
support the maintenance of a strong control 
framework; CASS Oversight and IT Security. 
In the second line the Compliance & Risk 
function includes teams focussed on anti-
money laundering, fraud, compliance advice, 
HARGREAVES 
LANSDOWN 
RISK UNIVERSE
STRATEGIC
EMERGING
OPERATIONAL
CREDIT
MARKET
LIQUIDITY
Board Governance
Executive Governance
Risk Reports Actions
• Status vs Risk Appetite
• Key Risk Indicators
• Breaches and Root Cause 
analysis
• ICAAP
• Conduct Risk
• Strategic & Emerging Risks
• Departmental Risks
Executive Risk Committee
Board Risk Committee
Committees
Activity driven
Risk Strategy
Executive Risks Departmental Risks
Strategic Risks Financial Risks
Emerging Risks Op Risks
Capital
Functional and Thematic Risk Assessments
RISK FRAMEWORK AND REPORTING SCHEMATIC HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
36
compliance monitoring and risk.
The risk profile is reported in two outputs, 
both based on the same data and linked to 
the risk universe. 
Risk Dashboard
A risk dashboard is produced monthly, which 
is central to the agendas at both the Board 
Risk Committee and the ERC. The dashboard 
reports on all the core elements of risk 
management, including; risks, risk appetite 
and risk events. Risk data is also reviewed 
in local management meetings. The second 
output is the ICAAP . 
Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP)
A key aspect of risk reporting is the ICAAP . 
The Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) 
IV applies to Hargreaves Lansdown and as 
such Hargreaves Lansdown complies with 
the ICAAP regime. The primary purpose of 
the ICAAP is to ensure that there is a clear, 
accurate and transparent link between the 
risk profile of the business and the capital 
adequacy level set by the firm. ICAAP 
compliance is overseen by the Board Risk 
Committee, with day to day management of 
compliance by the second line Risk Team.
Key elements of the ICAAP are reviewed on a 
cyclical basis by the ERC prior to discussion, 
challenge and approval by the Board Risk 
Committee. The ICAAP activity is integrated 
into the wider risk framework, ensuring 
consistency in risk reporting, and a clear link 
between the detailed business team risk 
registers and the capital held by the business.
THE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN 
RISK PROFILE AND OUR 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND 
UNCERTAINTIES
Managing risk is central to the delivery of 
high levels of client service. Risk management 
is understood and embedded at all levels 
of the business and the risks are captured 
and managed accordingly. Group Risk 
provide regular challenge and advice in the 
content, maintenance and reporting of all risk 
materials. 
EXECUTIVE RISKS
The Executive Risks (strategic and emerging) 
are forward looking risks to the business 
and are owned and managed by members 
of the Executive Committee. Given the 
nature of these risks they are managed 
through planning, monitoring and action 
setting. These are reported and discussed 
at both the Board Risk Committee and the 
Executive Risk Committee. The Executive 
Risk Committee meets monthly and the 
Board Risk Committee four times a year. 
This governance arrangement is the primary 
method for managing these forward looking 
risks to the business. 
New risks are discussed upon identification 
and then further assessed as they become 
more defined and their probability becomes 
more exact. Where appropriate, management 
actions are agreed and monitored. A recent 
example was the project to prepare for the 
outcome of the UK referendum on European 
Union membership, which resulted in a 
plan that allows the Group to maintain 
client service levels in the event of either 
outcome. Other risks discussed during 
2015/2016 include the potential impacts of 
negative interest rates, Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive (MIFID) II, Payment 
Services Directive (PSD) II and changing 
demographics.
DEPARTMENTAL RISKS
The Departmental Risks (financial and 
operational) occur during the ordinary 
course of business and are owned by 
senior managers. Risks are captured across 
a number of categories including; credit, 
market, liquidity, information technology, 
anti-money laundering & fraud, outsourcing, 
business continuity and conduct. For each 
risk category a set of risk limits have been 
agreed by the business and are monitored 
and reported to management.
Risks are captured in team based risk 
registers, and then reported at both team 
and at a consolidated level, enabling team 
based management of risk and controls and 
executive understanding of trends and risk at 
the risk universe level and by risk category. 
Thus anti-money laundering risks and 
controls can be owned and managed by the 
processing teams, and the Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer (MLRO) and other senior 
and executive management can also view the 
status of money laundering risk at a Company 
level.
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES
Managing the risks to Hargreaves Lansdown 
is fundamental to delivering the levels of 
service our clients expect and generating 
returns for shareholders. The Board have 
periodically carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Company, 
including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. In making such 
an assessment the Board considers the 
likelihood of each risk materialising in the 
short and longer term. In assessing the longer 
term viability of the Company (see Viability 
Statement in the Directors’ report) the Board 
has considered the principal risks. 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Company are set out in the table below 
along with how we intend to suitably mitigate 
those risks. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
37
RISK MITIGATIONS
STRATEGIC & EMERGING RISKS
Hargreaves Lansdown strategic change
There is a potential risk that Hargreaves Lansdown fails to continue 
to provide innovative propositions and services to the market or to 
react to the changing political, economic, social and technological 
environment. 
Key developments during the period were the;
• development of Peer to Peer and Deposit Service propositions
• launch of new Multi-Manager funds
• preparation for the launch of a new equity fund
• The Board reviews the strategy in the context of the political, 
economic, social and technological environment 
• There is a Steering Group providing oversight of the development 
of the Peer to Peer and Deposit Services propositions
• A project team ensures that the business would be able to 
manage any changes in business activity as a result of the UK 
referendum on European Union membership
Future regulatory change
Managing implementation of regulatory change has been a major 
element of the emerging risks in recent years. Key changes considered 
by the business have included; 
• Sunset clause (April 2016). 
• EU Membership Referendum
• New European General Data Protection Regulation 
• Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive
• MIFID 2 
• HL ceased the collection of platform cash rebates
• Project managed the results of the EU Membership referendum 
• Projects have been initiated led by the Group MLRO to meet the 
revised requirements of the European General Data Protection 
Regulation and the 4th Anti-Money Laundering directive
• There is an ongoing project to ensure that Hargreaves Lansdown 
will comply with the revised requirements of MiFID II
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Conduct
The risk that Hargreaves Lansdown poses to the achievement of fair 
client outcomes and to stability and transparency in financial markets
• Hargreaves Lansdown monitors and assesses ways in which 
clients could experience poor outcomes and monitors Management 
Information against these
• Conduct Risk Management Information is discussed at the Board 
Risk Committee as part of the wider Risk Management Information
Legal & Regulatory
Failure to comply with current, new or revised regulations or failure to 
prevent inappropriate conduct by staff could result in fines, legal action 
or regulatory sanctions 
• Independent Compliance, Compliance Monitoring and Internal Audit 
functions, strong governance including Board oversight
• Strong compliance culture geared towards client outcomes and 
regulatory compliance
• Formal compliance manuals in place for each area of the business
• Independent risk management function
• Regular updates from External Auditors HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
38
RISK MITIGATIONS
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Disruption to business
Physical business continuity event or catastrophic loss of systems, or 
other external event could cause disruption to our business and result 
in inability to perform core business activities or reduction in client 
service
• Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans in place and 
tested regularly
• Dual hosting of all critical servers, telecommunications and 
applications 
• High level of resilience built into daily operations
• Separate business continuity/disaster recovery site available 24/7
• Ongoing project to upgrade and enhance our IT operating platform 
• Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and 
established name suppliers
• Monitoring of critical devices and systems in place
Financial Crime, Fraud, Information Security & Data Protection
Failure to protect against cybercrime, fraud or security breaches could 
result in loss of data or inability to maintain our systems resulting in 
client detriment and reputational damage
• Dedicated Information Security, Anti Money Laundering and Client 
Protection teams in place 
• Formal policies and procedures in place with ongoing review and 
monitoring to check adherence
• A programme of training and awareness carried out across the 
business
• Externally audited and compliant to the Payment Card Industry 
Data Security Standard
• A rolling risk-based programme of penetration and vulnerability 
testing in place
• A Security Operations Centre focussed on the detection, 
containment, and remediation of information security threats
• Advanced malware protection in place
Information Technology
As a platform business with a proprietary platform tool, it is imperative 
that there is a strong control environment to support the business 
model
• Strong in-house IT function
• Regular testing of the performance of the IT Architecture
• All new IT releases subject to stringent testing including 
regression testing 
• Regular load tests and stress tests
• Forecasting of client demand to support the effective 
management of peaks and troughs in system demand
• Access controls to HL systems
• Regular senior management review of the change programme
People
Failure to recruit or retain appropriately skilled and experienced staff 
may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s operations and 
implementation of its strategy
• Career development path in place including talent management 
programme
• Continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes to 
incentivise staff and encourage retention
• Contracts for relevant roles have restrictive covenants and 
enhanced notice periods are in place for key staff
• Support and encouragement for taking qualifications HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
39
Interest rates
Reduction in interest rates or regulatory changes affecting interest 
income could lead to a decline in earnings 
• Using a range of banks and varying terms of deposit where 
permitted
Prudential risk
The risk that the Group may hold insufficient regulatory capital 
resources in order to meet FCA Threshold Condition requirements
• As part of the ICAAP , HL undertakes regular capital adequacy 
assessments to ensure that it maintains financial resources of 
sufficient scale and quality at all times. These assessments include 
risk-based stress testing to model the impact of extreme scenarios 
on the Group’s own funds
• This process is overseen by the Board of Directors
Market Risk
Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading activity 
and/or the value of the Group’s assets under administration or 
management, from which we derive revenues
• The Group model comprises both recurring platform revenue and 
transaction-based income
• A high proportion of the assets under administration are held 
within tax-advantaged wrappers, meaning there is a lower risk of 
withdrawal
• The Group model includes the ability to earn margin from cash 
management services when clients decide to shelter assets from 
market volatility
Liquidity
Lack of sufficient readily realisable financial resources to meet the 
Group’s obligations as they fall due or lack of access to liquid funds 
on commercially viable terms could lead to inability to pay clients and 
regulatory breaches
• Hargreaves Lansdown is a highly cash generative business with a 
low working capital requirement
• A Treasury management policy is in place, overseen by the Treasury 
Committee, which maximises return on capital whilst providing the 
ability to access sufficient liquid funds at short notice should this be 
necessary
Bank default
The Group must always protect against the risk that a bank could fail 
• We manage this risk by placing deposits only with highly credit-
rated institutions, in accordance with the Treasury Policy and 
overseen by the Treasury Committee
• The Treasury Committee monitors the counterparties’ credit ratings 
on a regular basis
RISK MITIGATIONS
FINANCIAL RISKS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
40
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OUR CULTURE
We have worked hard to create what we 
believe to be a unique working culture at 
Hargreaves Lansdown.
Putting clients first: 
At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an 
embedded culture whereby the interests 
of clients are always put first and this 
is communicated to all employees in 
the business during their induction and 
throughout their careers. In practice this 
includes elements such as ensuring that:
• all product design and information is clear 
and understandable 
• information and client support is available 
to clients after the point of sale
• appropriate complaints handling 
procedures are in place
• financial promotion and marketing 
practices are unbiased and appropriate for 
their audience 
To ensure we are getting things right with 
clients, we listen to them about the changes 
they would like to see to our services and 
we encourage and actively seek feedback 
from clients. If clients ever feel the need 
to complain, our complaints handling 
team carefully investigates our client’s 
complaint and endeavours to provide 
them with a fair resolution. We benchmark 
our performance in treating clients fairly 
against statistics published annually by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for the 
industry. The results for the 2016 financial 
year compared to the last figures published 
by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves 
Lansdown is achieving good results in 
treating our clients fairly.
Integrity: The Company prides itself on its 
integrity in dealing with clients and staff 
openly and honestly. This is achieved through 
our policy of putting clients first. All staff are 
trained and made fully aware of anti-money 
laundering procedures which must be 
adhered to at all times. The Company takes 
the views of its employees very seriously and 
as such operates a “Whistleblowing Policy” 
with any concerns raised about malpractice 
or wrongdoing within the workplace being 
treated with the utmost confidence and 
in full compliance with the Public Interest 
Disclosure Act.
Efficiency: We believe that costs require 
constant consideration and have built an 
ethos of employees continually asking 
themselves whether their actions are cost 
effective and efficient.
We are committed to managing the 
environmental impact of our operations, 
treating our employees well and maintaining 
a great culture and working environment. Our 
approach to corporate social responsibility 
includes these key elements:
Quality: We want to offer the best products 
and offer an excellent service, and are always 
looking for ways to improve
Sustainability: We work for the long-term, 
looking beyond immediate success
Integrity: We deal with people openly and 
honestly, building strong relationships
ENVIRONMENT
As a service business that does not own 
its business premises and is fundamentally 
based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves 
Lansdown has a limited direct impact on 
the environment. Nevertheless the Group 
continues to promote energy efficiency 
and the avoidance of waste throughout its 
operations.
Three years ago we commissioned a report 
to investigate our output of greenhouse 
gas emissions and reductive measures we 
could undertake (for more information visit 
www.hl.co.uk/csr). As part of this report 
Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to 
FTSE 100 companies in the same sector and 
this comparison has been updated in the 
chart above. The results demonstrate the 
relatively low impact our business has on the 
environment.
 
This low impact on the environment has 
not stopped us from enacting initiatives to 
continue reducing our environmental impact.
 
Environmental initiatives: Our objective 
of reducing waste and minimising the 
environmental impact of our business is 
aligned with our objectives of protecting 
client data, reducing costs, and improving 
efficiency. It is our aim to deal with clients 
and other businesses electronically wherever 
possible not only to speed up information 
transfer but also to reduce the amount of 
Average Maximum Minimum (Excluding HL)
Hargreaves Lansdown
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0
TONNES C0
2
e PER EMPLOYEE PER YEAR
AT HARGREAVES LANSDOWN, WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY IS A POSITIVE 
ONE. OUR COMPANY VALUES ARE ROOTED IN PROVIDING GREAT SERVICE AT GREAT VALUE. WE 
BELIEVE THAT DOING THE RIGHT THING MAKES GREAT BUSINESS SENSE. FOR MORE INFORMATION 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT WWW.HL.CO.UK/INVESTOR-RELATIONS/CORPORATE-SOCIAL-RESPONSIBILITY. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
41
paper we use. We have invested heavily in 
providing a user-friendly, comprehensive 
website and automated links to banks and 
fund providers. The benefits will grow as 
more people and businesses choose to 
transact business and receive information 
online. We aim to increase the take-up of 
online and paperless services, and have been 
successful in doing this during the year.
Business travel and commuting: We do 
not provide company cars to managers or to 
our network of advisers. These advisers are 
spread throughout the UK which minimises 
travel time and carbon emissions. We provide 
a telephone advice service where a face-to-
face meeting is not required. We also provide 
a secure bike park at our office enabling up to 
150 staff to cycle to work. 
Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle 
confidential waste and have arrangements 
for the collection of recyclable waste such as 
printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, 
newspapers and out-of-date literature. 
We also continue to recycle redundant IT 
equipment through specialist third parties. 
Electricity usage: Our electricity usage 
is not high enough to mean that we have 
to participate in Phase 2 of the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy 
Hargreaves Lansdown has continued 
to be included in the FTSE4Good Index 
series, having been independently 
assessed according to the FTSE4Good 
criteria. The FTSE4Good index measures 
the performance of companies that meet 
globally recognised standards on corporate 
social responsibility. 
30 June 
2016
30 June 
2015
Vantage clients registered as paperless 73% 71%
Vantage client equity deals placed online 98% 97%
Clients registered to use our online services 88% 88%
THE GREAT HL BAKE-OFF WINNER – 
EMILY BUTLER WITH IAN GORHAM AND 
CAROLINE BOOTH-MORRIS  FROM 
ST PETER’S HOSPICE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
42
Efficiency Scheme. This scheme is compulsory 
for UK organisations that consumed over 
6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered electricity 
for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. 
During that period we consumed well below 
that level and for the year ended 30 June 
2016 we had consumed only 4,061 MWh 
(2015: 3,520 MWh). 
Greenhouse gas emissions: In 2013 we 
engaged a consultant to assess our carbon 
emissions and benchmark us against other 
firms in our sector. The report was positive 
and reinforced our belief that we were already 
making good progress towards being resource 
efficient. For the year ending 2016 our use 
of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per 
employee increased by 6% (2015: 44% 
rise) while our electricity use per employee 
decreased by 3% (2015: 0%) compared to the 
previous year. The increase in electricity use 
was driven by the occupation of additional 
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2016 (unaudited)
Tonnes of CO
2
e
Emissions from: Current 
reporting year
2015-2016
Comparison year
2014-2015
Change (%)
Combustion of fuel and operation 
of facilities
 400.8 354.2 +13%
Electricity, heat, steam and 
cooling purchased for own use
 1,673.4 1,627.0 +3%
Tonnes of CO
2
e per average full-
time equivalent employee
2.14 2.18 -2%
£15,000
AMOUNT RAISED 
BY INDIVIDUALS 
FROM HARGREAVES 
LANSDOWN WHO 
COMPETED IN THE 
INVESCO PERPETUAL 
LAKES CHALLENGE 
INVESCO PERPETUAL LAKES CHALLENGE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
43
floor space, and additional computing power, in 
our head office.
Methodology: We have reported on all of 
the emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 
which fall within our consolidated financial 
statements. We do not have responsibility for 
any emission sources that are not included in 
our consolidated statement. We have used 
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised) and emission 
factors from UK Government’s GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2016. 
COMMUNITY
With the exceptions described below, we have 
made it Company policy to focus our support 
and fundraising activities on one charity or 
non-profit organisation each year which is 
selected from suggestions received from 
employees within the Group. We do not make 
political donations. During 2016 the chosen 
charity was the “St Peter’s Hospice”. St Peter’s 
Hospice is a Bristol charity caring for adults 
with life-limiting illnesses. They aim to improve 
the quality of their living and dying while 
extending care and support to their families 
and loved ones. They do this by providing 
physical, psychological and spiritual care for 
patients in their own homes as well as at the 
Hospice. They also teach other healthcare 
professionals about how to care for people at 
the end of their lives. 
Charitable activity outside of our chosen 
charity for the year
• The Group supports a grass-roots sports 
club. A monthly donation is made to the 
Bristol & West Athletics Club which is 
the leading all-round athletics club in the 
South West of England.
• As in previous years we have continued 
to support the Bristol Children’s Hospital 
Grand Appeal and we were proud 
sponsors of a Shaun the Sheep and have 
been actively raising awareness of the 
appeal.
• We have again supported teams of staff 
from Hargreaves Lansdown who competed 
in the Invesco Perpetual Lakes Challenge in 
September of last year. This is a challenging 
event, facilitating team bonding whilst 
raising money for the Youth Adventure 
Trust, which aims to provide outdoor 
adventure programmes for youths in order 
to help give them hope, confidence and life 
skills to meet the challenges in their lives.
The Group also makes significant tax 
payments which help society as a whole. 
Corporation tax and employer’s national 
insurance paid in respect of the year ended 
30 June 2016 was £47.6 million (2015: £46.4 
million). In addition we pay other taxes such 
as VAT, stamp duty and business rates.
Campaigning: The Company also actively 
seeks to lobby via public consultation 
documents where they believe that investors 
in the UK will benefit. 
Launching the Hargreaves Lansdown Foundation and Volunteer Scheme
On the 1 September 2016 the Company launched the Hargreaves Lansdown Charitable Foundation 
(the Foundation). This will move the Group’s focus away from one nominated charity per year to 
between four and eight employee nominated charities. The Foundation is a charitable incorporated 
organisation set up through an independent solicitor and is a registered charity. It focuses on sup-
porting four key areas which include ‘The next generation’ e.g. mentoring programmes, youth groups, 
financial and other education, ‘Well-being’ e.g. health and sport, ‘Improving Lives’ e.g. disadvantaged 
children, injured servicemen and women and finally ‘Communities’ which includes local projects. 
The following charities, as nominated by the Company’s employees, will be supported by the HL 
Charitable Foundation for the next three years:
Next Generation 
The Prince’s Trust 
Youth Adventure Trust
Well-being 
Cancer Research UK
IMPROVING LIVES 
Guide Dogs for the Blind
Communities 
Great Western Air Ambulance 
  
The Foundation aims to provide a centralised focus for fund raising efforts, improve support and 
increase the money raised for charitable causes and improve links with our local communities 
and national charitable groups. All of the legal and administration costs will be met by the 
Company so 100% of the money raised will go to the employee nominated charities. The day to 
day running of the Foundation will be by Hargreaves Lansdown volunteers. More details can be 
found on the website www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-socialresponsibility.  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
44
OUR PEOPLE 
WE ARE COMMITTED TO RECRUITING AND 
RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE WHO PUT OUR 
CLIENTS AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS. 
PEOPLE BEHIND THE PLAN
Our people are at the heart of Hargreaves 
Lansdown, bringing our values to life and 
putting our strategy into action to be 
the UK’s number one choice for savings 
and investments. To create value for our 
shareholders we must engage employees 
in our strategic plan and ensure we have 
the right people with the right skills and 
experience to drive our growth ambitions. 
Hargreaves Lansdown provides a dynamic 
and friendly working environment for around 
1,000 employees mostly located at our office 
in Bristol. We believe that our people should 
be proud of what they achieve together, with 
a strong sense of belonging to Hargreaves 
Lansdown and know that we recognise the 
crucial role that our employees play in our 
success. 
DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY
We are committed to maintaining a diverse 
workforce at all levels and believe that 
diversity is a broad issue encompassing 
variations in experience, skills, age and 
background as well as more traditional 
diversity factors such as ethnic origin and 
gender. Commercially and for best practice 
reasons we are an equal opportunities 
employer and believe that to succeed as a 
business we need to make the most of the 
potential of our people whoever they are. 
We have Human Resource policies in place 
to attract a diverse workforce and once 
working with us our people can expect to 
develop in an environment that is free from 
discrimination or harassment.
We give full consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons, where 
the candidate’s aptitudes and abilities are 
consistent with meeting the requirements of 
the job. If members of staff become disabled 
the Group continues employment, either 
in the same or an alternative position, with 
appropriate retraining being given if necessary. 
A full assessment of any disabled employee’s 
needs is undertaken and reasonable 
adjustments are made to the work environment 
or practices in order to assist them.
A PREMIER DESTINATION FOR 
TALENTED PEOPLE
To attract and retain the right people we offer 
a competitive reward package which includes 
independently benchmarked pay and 
benefits. We believe that working together 
as a team is the key to our success and so to 
complement our salary structure we include 
over 85% of our employees in a Group bonus 
scheme, linked to the financial success of 
Hargreaves Lansdown and distributed on 
an individual performance related basis 
identified via a performance appraisal system. 
To encourage employees to share in the 
success of our business we offer immediate 
entry into our SAYE scheme and over 40% of 
eligible employees joined the 2016 scheme. 
To complement the direct financial rewards 
we provide pension contributions and 
life cover. From January 2017 we are 
introducing new benefits including health 
checks, extended holiday entitlements, 
medical health cover and health cash plans. 
Employees can also extend their benefit 
selections in line with personal preferences 
to include such benefits as the government 
backed cycle-to-work initiative.
ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE
It is crucial that our people understand 
our priorities and are engaged in the 
development of our business. Hargreaves 
Lansdown actively encourages employee 
involvement and consultation and places 
emphasis on keeping its employees informed 
of the Company’s activities, macroeconomic 
conditions, regulatory issues and financial 
performance by such means as six-monthly 
presentations given by the Chief Executive, 
the employee intranet and publication to all 
staff of relevant information and corporate 
announcements.
Male Female Male Female
Company Directors
1
5 (71%) 2 (29%) 5 (83%) 1 (17%)
Other senior management
2
28 (88%) 4 (12%) 21 (91%)       2 (9%)
Total employees 658 (70%) 284 (30%) 685 (71%) 285 (29%)
Total workforce FTE = 942 As at 30 June 2016 Total workforce FTE = 970 As at 30 June 2015
Notes: 
1. Company Directors consists of the Company’s Board as detailed on page 50 to 51.
2. Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling the activities of the Company, or a 
strategically significant part of the Company, other than the Company Directors.
       2016          2015 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
45
We believe that listening and understanding 
our employees’ motivation and feedback is 
crucial in deciding our employee engagement 
programme. This year we partnered with 
the Hay Group to benchmark our employee 
engagement against other high performing 
organisations and those in our industry. We 
were delighted to have a 72% response rate, 
followed up with focus groups comprising 
15% of employees. 
Over 90% of employees who completed 
the survey feel proud of the quality of our 
products and services, our focus on clients 
and would recommend Hargreaves Lansdown 
to friends or relatives. All three areas placed 
us between 13% and 19% ahead of the 
external benchmarks. 
In terms of work in progress we need to set 
out career, training and reward structures 
more clearly and improve our internal 
communications.
LEARNING, DEVELOPMENT AND 
COMMUNICATION
To continue to engage and develop our 
people, we have introduced a range of new 
initiatives: a Learning and Development 
team, a learning curriculum, management 
qualifications and will open the Hargreaves 
Lansdown Learning Academy (due for 
completion in autumn 2016). We support 
our employees in their continuing personal 
and professional learning and development 
and encourage attendance at external and 
internal programmes. This year we piloted 
a leadership development programme for 
our senior colleagues and our Executive 
Team to encourage broader business wide 
thinking and build the skills to develop high 
performing teams. To enhance our internal 
communications a new team have been 
tasked with ensuring that key leadership 
messages are communicated across the 
business.
PROGRAMMES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
In September 2016 we launch the Hargreaves 
Lansdown Apprenticeship Scheme, 
welcoming young people to train with us in 
our IT, Digital and Operational teams. Our 
industrial placement scheme continues to be 
in high demand and we have piloted a new 
internship for students to gain invaluable 
work experience in summer 2016. We were 
delighted to receive external recognition for 
our graduate programme by being ranked in 
the Top 100 companies for graduates.
HUMAN RIGHTS
As a UK based organisation with clients 
and employees located within the UK we 
have not provided further information about 
any policies of the company in relation to 
human rights issues since it is not considered 
necessary for an understanding of the 
development, performance or position of the 
Group’s business activities.  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
46
GOVERNANCE
02 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
47 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
48
GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW 
FROM THE CHAIRMAN
The Group complies with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’). The statement 
of compliance can be found on page 52. Key 
areas of note are the disclosures surrounding 
the support that the Audit Committee 
has provided to the Board with regard to 
the viability statement and in making the 
statement that the Report and Financial 
Statements when taken as a whole are fair, 
balanced and understandable.
BOARD
During the year we strengthened our Board 
with the appointment of Jayne Styles as 
an independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Investment Committee in 
October 2015 and Christopher Hill as Chief 
Financial Officer in February 2016. In the 
course of the 2016/7 financial year, we intend 
to start the search process for an additional 
SOUND AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE IS AT THE HEART OF 
THE WORK OF THE BOARD, FOCUSSED ON ENSURING GOOD 
OUTCOMES FOR OUR VALUED CLIENTS AND LOOKING AFTER THE 
INTERESTS OF ITS SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS. 
THIS SECTION OF THE REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
PROVIDES AN INSIGHT INTO THE GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
49
independent Non-Executive Director to 
further strengthen the Board and ensure that 
we continue to develop the appropriate range 
of skills and experience.
STRATEGY
A specific outcome of our externally 
facilitated Board Effectiveness Review last 
year was to increase the focus of the Board 
and time spent on strategy. During the year 
we have held two Board strategy days; the 
first in December, and the second in June 
immediately after the outcome of the EU 
Referendum. Despite the uncertainties that lie 
ahead as a result of the EU Referendum, the 
Board is confident of its strategic direction, 
the measures in place to track progress by 
an enhanced risk framework and refreshed 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP). The agenda for the Board 
over the coming year will contain regular 
milestone reporting on progress against the 
strategic plan. 
PEOPLE 
Within the Group we want to ensure that we 
have the right talent, and the right balance 
and diversity of expertise, skills, background, 
gender and perspectives. We set out on 
page 44 to 45 the increased focus and 
investment we are making in development 
opportunities for our colleagues. The 
Nomination Committee has worked hard on 
succession planning, as reported on page 
85. It is also vital that we have on the Board 
sufficient diversity, and also independence of 
thought and action. All Board appointments 
are made on merit, while at the same time 
considering the diversity required for an 
effective Board, including diversity of skills, 
experience, background and gender. Details 
of our diversity policy can be found on page 
84, and a copy of our full statement on Board 
Diversity can be found on www.hl.co.uk.
WORKING EFFECTIVELY
As Chairman, my prime responsibility is to 
ensure that the Board is operating effectively 
and focusing its time, attention and efforts on 
the right matters. During the year, the Board 
made good progress against its agreed action 
plan following last year’s externally facilitated 
review and I asked Internal Audit to review 
our position mid-way through the year. This 
year, the Board Effectiveness Review was 
facilitated by me, with one to one discussion 
with each of the Directors and the Company 
Secretary. More details can be found on 
page 85. 
Mike Evans 
Chairman
6 September 2016
ALL BOARD APPOINTMENTS ARE MADE ON MERIT,
WHILE AT THE SAME TIME CONSIDERING THE 
DIVERSITY REQUIRED FOR AN EFFECTIVE BOARD, 
INCLUDING DIVERSITY OF SKILLS, EXPERIENCE, 
BACKGROUND AND GENDER HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
50
THE BOARD 
MIKE EVANS, FIA:  
CHAIRMAN 
IAN GORHAM, ACA:  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
CHRISTOPHER HILL, ACA: 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
 
N R
Cc
Rm
Cc
KEY TO COMMITTEES
N
R
A
Cc
Rm
Nomination
Audit
Risk
Remuneration
Committee chair 
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Appointed: Chairman in 
December 2009, Non-Executive 
Director in September 2006
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Mike is an Actuary with 
extensive financial services 
experience. During his 20 year 
career with Skandia where he 
served as the Chief Operating 
Officer, he gained significant 
strategic and operational 
experience. He has broad 
experience as a Director 
and chairman with relevant 
knowledge of regulation and 
governance. His collegiate 
approach ensures an open yet 
robust debate in the boardroom.
Other current appointments: 
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Zoopla Property Group plc
Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director of Chesnara 
plc
Appointed: September 2010
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Ian is a natural leader with a 
firm grasp of the commercial 
marketplace and regulatory 
framework. He has a significant 
amount of financial services 
experience having worked 
with many companies on a 
wide range of strategic and 
operational matters during 
his time at Deloitte and Grant 
Thornton where he headed their 
UK financial services business. 
A Chartered Accountant, Ian 
joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 
2009 as Chief Operating Officer, 
subsequently being appointed 
Chief Executive Officer. 
Other current appoinments:
None
Appointed: February 2016
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Christopher has considerable 
finance and accounting 
experience as well as operational 
and leadership skills from a 
number of business sectors, 
most recently as Chief Financial 
Officer at IG Group Holdings 
plc, a FTSE 250 online trading 
platform for retail customers and 
prior to that as Chief Financial 
Officer at Travelex. Christopher 
qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant at Arthur Andersen 
and is an associate member of 
the Association of Corporate 
Treasurers.  
Other current appoinments:
None HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
51
CHRISTOPHER BARLING:  
SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
STEPHEN ROBERTSON, FRSA: 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
JAYNE STYLES:  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
SHIRLEY GARROOD, ACA:  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
Rm A A A A N N N
Cc Cc
N R R R R Rm Rm
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Appointed: August 2010
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Chris is a technology 
entrepreneur with a vast amount 
of IT industry experience. He 
worked in senior positions for 
Cable & Wireless and Reuters, 
co-founded Actinic which 
specialised in ecommerce 
solution for SMEs. He is 
Chairman of User Replay, a 
digital consumer experience 
analytics software provider.
Other current appointments: 
Non-Executive Chairman of User 
Replay Limited
Co-founder and Chairman of 
Powered Now Limited
Appointed: October 2015
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Jayne’s career of over 25 years 
in the investment management 
world brings a wealth of relevant 
financial services experience. 
Currently the Chief Investment 
Officer at MS Amlin, she is 
responsible for the investment 
strategy, governance and 
operations of their £5bn plus 
global, multi-asset, Multi-
Manager portfolios. As a current 
executive, Jayne has current 
strategic and operational 
experience. Jayne has an 
Executive MBA from Cranfield 
School of Management and is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Bankers. 
Other current appointments: 
Chief Investment Officer, MS 
Amlin
Appointed: October 2013
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Shirley has extensive and 
relevant executive and non-
executive financial services 
experience. A Chartered 
Accountant, she served as 
Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Operating Officer at 
Henderson Group plc and as an 
Executive Director at Morley 
Fund Management (Aviva). She 
also has broad experience as a 
Non-Executive Board Member, 
chairing committees of a listed 
company and a G15 housing 
association.
Other current appointments: 
Deputy Chaiman and Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director of esure Group plc
Appointed: October 2011
Skills, competence and 
experience: 
Stephen has broad marketing 
and digital skills and experience 
derived from a career in the 
retail sector, serving 15 years on 
the boards of major UK retailers 
and then as Director General of 
the British Retail Consortium. 
Stephen has a keen interest in 
the client experience and has 
well-honed people skills.
Other current appointments: 
Chairman of West of England 
Local Enterprise Partnership 
(LEP)
Non-Executive Director of 
Timpson Group plc
Non-Executive Director of Clipper 
Logistics plc HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
STATEMENT OF 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CODE
The Code sets out the standards of good 
practice in relation to how a company should 
be directed and governed. The Code is 
published by the Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) and further information can be found 
on its website at frc.org.uk. 
The Directors confirm that the Group 
complied with all of the provisions of the 
Code throughout the year ended 30 June 
2016 and confirm that the Board believes 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements 
for 2016 taken as a whole, are fair, balanced, 
understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess position 
and our performance, business model and 
strategy. 
Further explanation of how the main 
principles and supporting principles of the 
Code have been applied is set out in this 
Corporate Governance statement and in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The Company’s auditor, PwC, is required 
to review whether the above statement 
reflects the Company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the Code specified for its review 
by the Listing Rules and to report if it does 
not reflect such compliance; no such report 
has been made. 
Board Committees Executive Committees
Audit Committee Executive Risk 
Committee
Board Risk 
Committee
Investment 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Treasury 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
CASS Oversight 
Committee
Senior 
Management
Team
Executive Committee
Appoint the auditors Independent External Auditors Shareholders
Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board
Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and Four independent Non-Executive Directors
Elect the board
The Group operates within a clear governance 
framework. The Group’s internal control and 
risk management framework is discussed 
in the Managing our risks section on page 
33. Certain responsibilities of the Board are 
delegated to the Board Committees to assist 
the Board in carrying out its functions and 
to ensure independent oversight of internal 
control and risk management. Other non-
board committees form part of the Corporate 
Governance framework, but are not formally 
appointed committees of the Board. These 
committees feed back to the main Board and 
Board Committees via their Chairman or an 
Executive Director where appropriate.
OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AS AT 30 JUNE 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
53
LEADERSHIP
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible for en-
suring leadership through effective oversight 
and review. The Board has overall responsibil-
ity for the management and performance of 
the Group. It sets the strategic direction of the 
Group, monitors performance, determines the 
appropriate risk appetite, and ensures that 
sufficient resources in talent and capital are in 
place to achieve the objectives and ensures 
solid succession planning for senior man-
agement. It ensures that risk, regulatory and 
compliance management within the Group 
is effective. The Board reviews performance, 
including that of the senior management and 
senior executives. The Board is also respon-
sible for engaging with shareholders. It is the 
decision-making body for all other matters 
deemed material to the Group in strategic, 
financial and reputational terms. 
There is a documented schedule of matters 
which are reserved for Board decision and 
approval. These matters are significant to 
the Group as a whole due to their strategic, 
financial or reputational implications, and 
include, but are not limited to, the agreement 
of strategies, recommendation of dividends, 
approval of acquisitions and major capital 
expenditure. In addition, it is only the Board 
which can appoint and remove Directors and 
our Company Secretary. The Board also has 
overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal controls and risk management 
as explained in the “Managing Our Risks” 
section.
Except for the schedule of matters reserved 
for decision by the Board, the Board has 
delegated the day-to-day management of 
the Group to the Chief Executive who is 
supported by the Executive Committee and 
senior management. The Chief Executive and 
Executive Directors of the Group are respon-
sible to the Board for developing strategy and 
the profitability and overall performance of 
the Group.
 
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Board is made up of the Chairman, 
Executive Directors, including the Chief 
Executive Officer, and independent Non-
Executive Directors. The roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly 
defined, separate and approved by the Board.
CHAIRMAN
The Chairman is responsible for the 
operation, leadership and governance of 
the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and 
setting its agenda. In conjunction with the 
Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the 
Chairman plans agenda items and timings for 
Board meetings. The Chairman ensures that 
the membership of the Board is appropriate 
to the needs of the business and that Board 
Committees carry out their duties, including 
reporting back to the Board. The Chairman is 
also responsible for ensuring there is effective 
communication with shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and that the rest of the Board is 
aware of and maintains an understanding of 
their views. The Chairman works closely with 
the Chief Executive Officer to ensure that the 
strategies and actions agreed by the Board 
are effectively implemented.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Chief Executive has executive 
responsibilities for the operations, results 
and day to day management of the Group. 
He also recommends strategic developments 
to the Board for consideration. He is then 
responsible for the delivery of the strategy 
and leads the executive management 
team. The Board has delegated these 
responsibilities to him, and he is accountable 
to the Board. 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The Chief Financial Officer supports the Chief 
Executive Officer in implementing the Group’s 
strategy and in the operational performance 
of the business.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Non-Executive Directors are independent 
of management and are considered by the 
Board to be free from any business or other 
relationships, which could compromise their 
independence. Their role is to effectively 
advise and constructively challenge 
management, along with monitoring 
management’s success in delivering the 
agreed strategy within the risk appetite and 
control framework set by the Board. They are 
also responsible for determining appropriate 
levels of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
The Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director’s role is to provide a sounding board 
for the Chairman and support him in the 
delivery of his objectives. He serves as a 
trusted intermediary for the other Directors 
when necessary and is also available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which 
communication via the normal channels of 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other 
Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or 
when shareholders prefer to speak directly 
to him. He is responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman on behalf of the 
other Directors.
COMPANY SECRETARY
The Company Secretary supports and 
works closely with the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Board Committee 
Chairmen in setting agenda items for 
meetings of the Board and its committees. 
The Company Secretary is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring Board procedures are 
followed, applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with and that the Board is advised 
on governance and relevant regulatory 
matters. In addition, the Company Secretary 
supports the Chairman in the design and 
delivery of Non-Executive Director Induction 
programmes. All Directors have access to the 
services of the Company Secretary. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
54
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES
The Board meets at least four times each 
financial year and met nine times in the last 
financial year. The Board also meets with 
the Executive Directors at a regular off-site 
Strategy Day to review strategic options open 
to the Group in the context of the economic, 
regulatory and competitive environment and 
to set the strategic objectives. There were two 
such meetings in the year. Between Board 
meetings, Directors are also provided with 
monthly information packs which include 
detailed commentary and analysis. To ensure 
that Directors are as fully informed as possible, 
minutes are circulated from each Committee, 
including the Executive Committee, and each 
Board meeting includes a report from the 
Committee Chairmen as appropriate. The 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet in 
the absence of the Executive Directors at least 
once a year. There were two such meetings in 
the year.
Each Director committed an appropriate amount 
of time to their duties during the financial 
year, and the Non-Executive Directors met or 
exceeded the time commitment specified in 
their letters of appointment.  
BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
The Board meeting agendas during the year 
included business across the key areas 
of strategy, governance, risk and financial 
performance. In addition to regular reviews 
of performance, the Board discussed the 
strategic direction of the Company; a number 
of business indicatives; regulatory impact and 
changes affecting the business; competition 
and the business outlook.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board is authorised to manage the 
business of the Company in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association. The 
Articles of Association may be amended 
by special resolution of shareholders. 
Certain responsibilities of the Board are 
delegated to Committees to assist the Board 
in carrying out its functions and to ensure 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Meetings 
attended
Chairman
Mike Evans 9 9
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Chris Barling 9 8
Shirley Garrood 9 9
Stephen Robertson 9 7
Jayne Styles 6 5
Dharmash Mistry 2 2
Executive Directors
Ian Gorham 9 9
Christopher Hill 4 4
n	 22%  Strategy & business initiatives 
n	 16% Regulation
n	 17%  Reports from the Committees
n	 12%  Finance, including CASS and  
 Treasury
n	 11%  Competition and business  
 outlook
n	 10%  Board matters, including  
 dividends and annual reporting
n	 5%  People
n	 4%  Investor relations
n	 4%  Board effectiveness
ATTENDANCE AT THE BOARD MEETINGS
The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director during the year is set out below.
BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
55
independent oversight of internal control 
and risk management. The four principal 
Board Committees (Audit, Remuneration, 
Risk and Nomination) play an essential 
role in supporting the Board in fulfilling 
its responsibilities. The Chairman of each 
Committee reports to the Board after 
each meeting. The minutes of each Board 
Committee meeting are circulated to the 
attendees. 
The Board Committees all have formal terms 
of reference that have been approved by the 
Board, and performance of the Committees 
is assessed annually by the Board. Each 
Committee’s terms of reference sets out 
the specific matters for which delegated 
authority has been given by the Board. 
These terms of reference are reviewed 
annually and the terms of reference of the 
Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk 
Committee are available on the Group’s 
website (www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations). 
A summary of the terms of reference for 
each committee is included in the committee 
summaries below. A report from each 
committee on their activities for the year 
follows this section.
OTHER COMMITTEES 
These committees form part of the Corporate 
Governance framework, but are not formally 
appointed Non-Executive committees of 
the Board. The main Committees are the 
Executive Committee, the Investment 
Committee, Executive Risk Committee, the 
CASS Oversight Committee and the Treasury 
Committee:
Executive Committee 
The Board has delegated full authority to 
the Executive Committee subject to a list of 
matters which are reserved for decision by 
the full Board only. In particular, the Executive 
Committee is responsible to the Chief 
Executive for developing and monitoring every 
aspect of the Group’s business on a continuing 
basis, for developing and implementing 
business strategy as agreed by the Board 
and ensuring that day-to-day operations are 
conducted in accordance with the relevant 
regulatory and statutory requirements. The 
Executive Committee meets at least quarterly 
but more frequently when required, and met 
five times during the current financial year. The 
attendance by each member is set out in the 
table on page 56.
The Executive Committee is chaired by 
the Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his 
absence by Christopher Hill. During the year 
the committee comprised the following 
members:
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Responsible for: Overseeing the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting. 
Reviews and recommends to the Board: The effectiviness 
of the Group’s internal controls and internal audit function. 
The performance and independence of the external auditors 
as well as being responsible for their appointment, 
re-appointment and removal. 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Responsible for: The structure, size and composition of the 
Board, including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: Concerning the 
composition and skills of the Board including proposed 
appointees. Leads the process for Board appointments, 
re-election and succession of the directors and the 
Chairman. Reviews the leadership and development needs 
of the organisation.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
Responsible for: The Group’s overall risk appetite, risk 
tolerance and risk strategy.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: On the current 
risk exposures of the company. Advises on the amount of 
surplus regulatory capital that should be held commensurate 
with the Group’s risk profile and regulatory obligations and 
effectiveness of the risk management systems.  
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Responsible for: Setting the remuneration policy including 
pension rights and any compensation payments for all 
executive directors.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: The level and 
structure of remuneration for senior management of the Group, 
taking into account relevant legal and regulatory requirements, 
the provisions and recommendations of the Code, FCA 
Remuneration Codes, AIFMD, CRD IV and associated guidance. 
BOARD 
COMMITTEES HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
56
Investment Committee 
The Investment Committee is responsible for 
monitoring the investments held within the 
HL Multi-Manager funds. It is also responsible 
for ensuring that there are no conflicts of 
interest between the HL Multi-Manager 
funds and clients investing with the Group 
on an execution only basis. The Investment 
Committee meets at least four times a year 
and met five times during this year.  From 1 
July 2015, the activities of the Investment 
Committee have been formally reported to 
the PLC Board by the committee Chairman, 
and the committee has been chaired by 
an independent Non-Executive Director 
(Jayne Styles) since 23rd October 2015. 
Since the end of the financial year the 
Board has decided that the Investment 
Committee will become a full committee 
of the Board alongside the Audit, 
Remuneration, Risk and Nomination 
Committees and its terms of reference 
have been updated to reflect this.
Executive Risk Committee 
The Executive Risk Committee is an 
executive committee seeking to ensure 
risks are identified, assessed, managed 
and reported on, it is also responsible for 
overseeing compliance with the capital 
requirements under the ICAAP regime. The 
Committee meets monthly and is chaired by 
the Group Director of Risk and Compliance. 
The Committee covers all areas of risk 
management and agrees the position against 
the Risk Appetite based on the information 
provided in the risk dashboard. Throughout 
the year papers are requested on specific 
risks and topics. 
CASS Oversight Committee 
The CASS Oversight Committee is chaired 
by the Chief Financial Officer, who is 
responsible for overseeing our processes 
and controls over segregating client monies 
and safeguarding custody assets. The 
committee’s role is to support him as the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA’s) client 
assets operational oversight function. The 
committee meets monthly and receives 
reports from a number of operational and 
control functions, enabling it to monitor the 
effectiveness of our processes and controls.
Treasury Committee 
The Treasury Committee is chaired by the 
Chief Financial Officer. Its role is to define 
and oversee the management of client 
and Hargreaves Lansdown’s own cash 
balances within the regulatory framework 
and company’s risk appetite. The Committee 
meets at least quarterly, with detailed 
monthly reporting enabling clear and effective 
oversight of all facets of cash activities, 
including liquidity, counterparty exposure and 
performance. 
The Executive 
Committee
Movements in the year Meetings 
eligible to 
attend 
Meetings 
attended
Ian Gorham Chief Executive Officer 6 6
Christopher Hill Chief Financial Officer Appointed 4th February 2016 2 2
Ian Hunter Commercial Director 6 6
Vikki Williams Chief Operating Officer Resigned 3rd February 2016 4 4
David Davies Chief Information Officer 6 5
Mark Dampier Research Director Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 3
Lee Gardhouse Chief Investment Officer Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 5
Stuart Louden Group Director of Savings Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 6
Rob Byett Group Director of Risk and Compliance Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 5
Chris Worle Digital Strategy Director Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 6
Nick Marson Operations Director Resigned 31st October 2015 1 1
Mike Evans, Heather Cooper (Chief People Officer) and Judy Matthews (General Counsel and Company Secretary) are invited to attend the Executive 
Committee. Biographies of the above are available on our website: www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
57
EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
As at 30 June 2016 there were seven Directors 
on the Board: the Chairman, four independent 
Non-Executive Directors, and two Executive 
Directors. The size and composition of the 
Board is regularly reviewed by the Board and 
the Nominations Committee to ensure that 
there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills 
and experience.
INDUSTRY/BACKGROUND AND 
EXPERIENCE
There is an appropriate combination of 
Executive Directors and Non-Executive 
Directors such that no individual or small 
group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision making. 
There were the following changes in Board 
composition during the year: 
• Dharmash Mistry resigned from the Board 
as Non-Executive Director on 31 August 
2015,
• Jayne Styles joined the Board as Non-
Executive Director on 23 October 2015
• Christopher Hill joined the Board as Chief 
Financial Officer on 4 February 2016
• Simon Cleveland, a partner in Deloitte LLP , 
was contracted as Interim CFO prior to the 
appointment of Christopher Hill. Simon 
Cleveland did not serve on the Board of 
Directors.
Details on our Board members, including 
other Directorships, are on page 50 to 51.
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The Group is fully compliant with the Code, 
which requires that at least half of the Board, 
excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-
Executive Directors who are determined by 
the Board to be independent. The Code sets 
out the circumstances that should be relevant 
to the Board in determining whether each 
Non-Executive Director is independent and 
the Board has given due regard to provision 
B.1.1 of the Code. The Board has considered 
factors such as the length of tenure and 
relationships or circumstances which are likely 
to affect or appear to affect the Director’s 
judgement in determining whether they 
remain independent. This review is conducted 
annually.
The Board has concluded that Stephen 
Robertson, Christopher Barling, Shirley 
Garrood and Jayne Styles remained 
independent in character and judgement 
throughout the financial year and are free from 
any business or other relationships which 
could materially affect the exercise of their 
judgement. Mike Evans was independent on 
appointment as Chairman. Christopher Barling 
is currently the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid 
situations in which they may have interests 
that conflict with those of the Group, unless 
that conflict is first authorised by the Board. 
Directors are required to disclose both the 
nature and extent of any potential conflict or 
actual conflicts with the interests of the Group. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, 
the Company’s articles of association allow the 
Board to authorise potential conflicts that may 
arise, and to impose such conditions or limita-
tions as it sees fit. During the year, any poten-
tial conflicts were considered and assessed by 
the Board and approved where appropriate.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND 
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Board uses succession planning to ensure 
that Executives with the necessary skills, 
knowledge and expertise are in place to deliver 
the Group’s strategy, and that it has the right 
balance of individuals to be able to discharge 
their responsibilities. The Board regularly 
reviews its composition to enable it to 
maintain its balance of skills and experience. 
Any searches for Board candidates, and 
appointments made, are based upon merit 
against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee has specific 
responsibility for the appointment of Non-
Executive and Executive Directors and it 
recommends new appointments to the 
Experience Number of Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) and Non-Executive Chairman
Company knowledge 7
Industry knowledge 7
Audit and Risk management 5
Investment management 4
Strategy and Business development 5
Operational management 5
Technology and Digital focus 4 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
58
n	 1 Independent Non-  
 Executive Chairman
n	 2 Executive Directors
n	 4 Independent Non-  
 Executive Directors
n	 2 0-3 years
n	 2 3-6 years
n	 0 6-9 years
n	 1 9-12 years
Board. It regularly reviews the structure, 
size and composition required of the Board 
and makes recommendations to the Board 
as appropriate. More information on the 
work of the Committee can be found in the 
Nomination Committee report on pages 84 
to 85.
INDUCTION
Our Chairman, with support from the 
Company Secretary, is responsible for 
preparing and implementing a personalised 
induction programme for all new Directors, 
to include guidance as to their duties, 
responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of 
the Company. We believe that the best way 
to learn about a business is to spend time 
within it, and we encourage new Directors 
to spend time with our senior managers and 
executives in a number of business areas and 
to receive demonstrations of key operations 
and systems where relevant. 
ONGOING PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
Every Director has access to appropriate 
training throughout their appointment 
as Director and we regularly assess the 
requirement for Director training as part of 
each Director’s annual appraisal.
Our overall objective is to maintain and 
enhance professional standards for all our 
employees. We believe that these standards 
are particularly important for all staff who 
fall under the scope of the FCA Training and 
Competence rules. All staff under the scope 
of these rules are required to perform certain 
training annually. 
Given the rapidly changing environment 
in which the Group operates, all Directors 
are given regular updates on changes and 
developments in the business. The Board 
is regularly updated on relevant legislative, 
regulatory or governance changes. Training 
opportunities are provided through internal 
meetings, presentations and briefings by 
external advisors.
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD
The Board has full and timely access to all 
relevant information to enable it to perform 
its duties effectively.  As explained on page 
53, the Company Secretary works closely 
with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
and Board Committee Chairmen to ensure 
that appropriate and timely information flows 
within and to the Board and its committees, 
enabling the Board to exercise its judgement 
and make fully informed decisions when 
discharging its duties.
The Company Secretary supports the 
Chairman in setting the Board agenda, and 
papers are distributed to all Directors in 
advance of Board meetings via a secure 
electronic system. Directors receive financial 
information on the Group on a monthly basis 
and receive briefings from the Chief Executive 
Officer in between meetings as required.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Code requires that all Directors of 
FTSE 350 companies should be subject to 
annual election by shareholders. Under the 
existing Articles of Association all Directors 
have to submit themselves for re-election 
annually if they wish to continue serving 
and are considered by the Board to be 
eligible. All Directors wish to be re-elected 
and the Board confirms that all individual 
performance reviews demonstrated that the 
Directors continue to demonstrate effective 
performance and commitment to their roles. 
BOARD EVALUATION
The Code and the Financial Reporting 
Council’s guidance on Board effectiveness 
recommend that the annual performance 
review of the Board should be externally 
facilitated every three years. Independent 
Audit Limited were engaged by the Board 
to perform this external review in 2015 and, 
COMPOSITION OF THE EXECUTIVE
AND INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD
LENGTH OF TENURE OF 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS & CHAIRMAN
n	 2 0-3 years
n	 2 3-6 years
n	 0 6-9 years
n	 1 9- HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
59
following this, the Board has made good 
progress against its agreed actions. 
There has been an increase in the frequency 
of Board meetings and the time allotted for 
the formal Board cycle, the introduction of a 
rolling twelve month agenda, and an increase 
in the engagement of the Non-Executive 
Directors with management outside of Board 
meetings. A mid-year internal review carried 
out by Internal Audit supported this view that 
good progress is being made.
The Chairman carried out this year’s review 
of the Board’s effectiveness and presented 
his draft report to the Board in June 2016. 
After discussion, the finalised report was 
approved by the Board in August 2016. The 
review was performed by way of one-to-
one discussions with each Director and the 
Company Secretary. The key theme emerging 
from the review was that whilst good 
progress had continued to be made against 
the agreed actions from the previous year, 
there remained work to be done to ensure 
that the time spent by the Board in session 
was of the highest quality. The strategic plan 
approved by the Board in August 2016 is the 
backbone around which performance can 
be measured and agendas framed. It was 
also agreed that after each Board meeting, 
the Non-Executive Directors would hold a 
short review session to introduce a culture of 
continuous improvement. Finally, it was noted 
that the induction process for new Directors 
required refreshing.
Individual appraisal of each Executive 
Director’s performance is undertaken by the 
Chief Executive. The Non-Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, carry 
out an appraisal of the performance of the 
Chairman. The Chief Executive’s performance 
was evaluated by the Chairman with input 
from the rest of the Board. The performance 
of the Non-Executive Directors was appraised 
by the Chairman on a one-to-one basis. The 
appraisals concluded that the Chairman and 
all Directors continue to perform effectively 
and demonstrate commitment to the role.
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of 
maintaining good communication with 
the Company’s shareholders and has 
a programme of communication with 
shareholders based on the financial reporting 
calendar which includes the interim and 
annual reports, trading updates, the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) and the Investor 
Relations section of the corporate website 
at www.hl.co.uk. Our Annual Report is an 
important medium for communicating with 
shareholders, setting out detailed reviews 
of the business and its future developments 
in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief 
Executive Officer’s review and the Strategic 
Report. 
In addition to this, the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer meet with institutional 
investors after results announcements, upon 
request or on an ad hoc basis during the year. 
They, together with the Company Secretary 
and Head of Investor Relations, also provide 
a point of contact for investors who wish to 
raise questions, queries or concerns. During 
the year, the Chairman met with a number of 
our larger shareholders. Christopher Barling, 
our Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, is also available to meet key 
investors. 
Following dialogue with individual 
institutional shareholders, the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer all ensure that the Board is fully 
briefed on shareholders’ views such that any 
issues or concerns are fully understood and 
considered. Analyst and broker briefings are 
regularly provided to the Board. In addition, 
the Group’s brokers sought feedback from 
investors following the 2015 final and 2016 
interim results, and this feedback was 
reported to the Board.
AGM
The AGM provides the Board with 
the opportunity to communicate with 
shareholders and we welcome and 
encourage their participation at the meeting. 
All Directors make themselves available 
to meet shareholders at our AGM and 
they value the opportunity of welcoming 
individual shareholders and other investors 
to communicate directly and address their 
questions. 
The Company sends the Annual Report 
and notice of the AGM to shareholders, 
or makes them available on the Group’s 
website, at least 20 days before the date of 
the meeting. The Notice of AGM sets out a 
clear explanation of each separate resolution 
on each discrete subject. Resolutions are 
passed on a show of hands, and proxy 
votes for, against and withheld for each 
resolution are displayed at the meeting. 
Where the resolutions were to appoint or 
re-appoint Directors, the votes were shown 
with and without the votes of the controlling 
shareholder (Peter Hargreaves). There is a 
Relationship Agreement in place between 
Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure 
that the independence provisions as set 
out in the Listing Rules are complied with. 
The terms of the agreement have been fully 
complied with during the year. Following 
the AGM, the results of voting are published 
through a Regulatory Information Service and 
on our website.
OTHER INFORMATION
Certain additional information in relation to 
the Company’s share capital, the powers of 
Directors and amendments to the Articles of 
Association that is required to be disclosed 
pursuant to DTR 7.2.6 may be found in the 
Directors Report on pages 88 to 91. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
60
Shirley Garrood, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee (or the Committee), gives her 
review of the Committee’s activities during 
the financial year.
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW 
During the year, the Committee has 
maintained its focus on monitoring the 
integrity of the financial reporting process 
and provided support to the Board in 
discharging its duties regarding the Group’s 
financial reporting requirements. Whilst 
ultimate responsibility for the oversight of 
the Group’s financial reporting rests with 
the Board, the Committee has reviewed the 
results and financial announcements and 
passed its comments and recommendations 
to the Board.
The Committee has examined the interim 
review and the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements and is satisfied that the latter are 
fair, balanced and understandable. The year 
ended 30 June 2016 is the first year for which 
the Group must comply with the Financial 
Reporting Council’s (FRC) requirements on 
the viability statement. This year also sees 
the Group adopt FRS101 for the financial 
statements of its subsidiary companies. The 
Committee has discussed the impact of these 
changes and approved the way in which they 
have been dealt with.
The quality of the external auditor’s work, 
their effectiveness and their independence 
have been reviewed by the Committee as part 
of its responsibility for oversight of the audit 
process. During the year the Audit Committee 
selected a new Senior Engagement Partner, as 
the previous partner was leaving PwC. As part 
of this process the Committee, Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) and PwC worked together to 
ensure a smooth transition.
The Committee has continued to receive 
and review reports from the Internal Audit 
function, with time being devoted to 
discussion of findings, recommended actions 
and progress in completing those actions. 
The Internal Audit function will be subject 
to an External Quality Assessment (EQA) in 
August and September 2016 to provide the 
Committee with an independent assessment 
of their effectiveness.
The Committee considered the design 
and effectiveness of a number of key IT, 
organisational and Client Assets Sourcebook 
(CASS)  controls as part of fulfilling its 
responsibility to oversee the Group’s system 
of internal controls.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit 
Committee have been reviewed and 
updated to clarify its responsibilities 
following the introduction of the Board Risk 
Committee in the previous financial year. The 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee have 
been summarised below and the complete 
Terms of Reference may be found at www.
hl.co.uk/investor-relations. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
All members of the Committee are independent. The biographies 
of Committee members can be found on page 50. The members of 
the Audit Committee as at 30 June 2016 were as follows:
Shirley Garrood – Chairman (Chartered Accountant): 
Appointed 25 October 2013
Christopher Barling: Appointed 26 August 2010
Stephen Robertson: Appointed 3 October 2011
Jayne Styles: Appointed 23 October 2015
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Operating Officer (COO) 
(part year only), CFO, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Group Director 
of Risk and Compliance are routinely invited to, and attend, the 
majority of meetings, although the Committee reserves the right to 
request any of these individuals to withdraw. The external auditor also 
attended all meetings.
The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year but more 
frequently when required, and met five times during this financial year. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
61
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are set out in its Terms of Reference, 
which are designed to assist the Board in 
discharging its responsibilities for:
• monitoring the financial reporting process 
including the integrity of our annual and 
interim reports, preliminary results and 
any other formal announcements relating 
to financial performance; 
• reviewing the continuing appropriateness 
of the Group’s accounting policies;
• reviewing the clarity of disclosures, 
ensuring the Group has made appropriate 
estimates and judgements in preparing 
all material information presented in the 
Annual Report;
• ensuring that the integrity of our Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable 
and provides shareholders with the 
information necessary to assess the 
Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy;
• reviewing the Group’s viability statement 
and making recommendations to the 
Board;
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and the Group’s internal control 
systems; 
• reviewing the statements to be included 
in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements concerning internal controls;
• reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK 
professional and regulatory requirements;
• making recommendations to the 
Board, for a resolution to be put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general 
meetings in relation to the appointment 
or removal of the external auditor and the 
approval of the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor; 
• monitoring and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit 
function; and 
• overseeing the Group’s procedures 
for public interest disclosure 
(whistleblowing).
 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be 
available at the Annual General Meeting to 
answer any questions about the work of the 
Committee.
In between the formal schedule of meetings, 
the Committee Chairman keeps in regular 
contact with the CEO, CFO, Head of Internal 
Audit, Group Director of Risk and Compliance, 
Chief Risk Officer and the Senior Engagement 
Partner of the external auditor.
On an on-going basis, membership of the 
Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of 
the Committee and any recommendations 
for new appointments are made to 
the Nomination Committee for onward 
recommendation to the Board. Appointments 
are for a period of three years and are 
extendable by no more than two additional 
three-year periods. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code requires the inclusion of at 
least one member with recent and relevant 
financial experience and our Committee 
Chairman currently fulfils this requirement. 
During the year Jayne Styles was appointed 
to the Committee, replacing Dharmash Mistry, 
who resigned on 31 August 2015.
The Group provides an induction programme 
for new Audit Committee members and on-
going training to enable all of the Committee 
members to carry out their duties.  New 
Committee members also meet some of the 
Group’s staff, as part of their induction and 
all Committee members are encouraged to 
engage with staff throughout the year. On-
going training includes individual attendance 
at formal conferences, internal briefings and 
briefings by external accountancy firms.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL 
YEAR
In discharging its responsibilities the Audit 
Committee concentrated on five key areas:
• Financial Reporting
• External Audit
• Internal Audit
• IT and Other Internal Controls 
• Audit Committee effectiveness
The Audit Committee has passed 
responsibility for the review of risk 
management systems to the Risk Committee 
following a review of the Terms of Reference 
of both committees. The Committee 
continues to review key controls where their 
failure could have an impact on the integrity 
of financial record-keeping, reporting and 
disclosure.
Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended
Chairman
Shirley Garrood 5 5
Members
Chris Barling 5 5
Stephen Robertson 5 5
Jayne Styles (joined Committee as a member Oct 15) 3 (plus one as an observer) 3
Dharmash Mistry (resigned, last meeting Aug 15) 1 1 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
62
FINANCIAL REPORTING
With support and input from the external 
auditor, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, 
has examined the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, Interim Report and Financial 
Statements, and the trading updates together 
with the related disclosures, application and 
consistency of accounting policies and the 
financial reporting process. This examination 
has included the review and approval 
of the Annual Report, and consideration 
of the Income Statement, Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial 
Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, 
Going Concern statement, Viability Statement 
and the Statement of Cash Flows, with an 
emphasis on ensuring that these are fair, 
balanced and understandable.
The integrity of the financial statements is 
underpinned by the control environment. In 
this regard, the Committee has considered 
risk and control reports from the Head of 
Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer, and 
the Group Director of Risk and Compliance 
and satisfied itself that the integrity of 
the control environment supporting the 
financial reporting and disclosure process is 
appropriate.
Key controls over the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements include:
• The risk function and management 
conduct periodic checks on internal 
financial controls;
• Management regularly monitors and 
considers developments in accounting 
regulations and best practice in financial 
reporting, and where appropriate, reflects 
developments in the consolidated 
financial statements. Appropriate briefings 
and/or training are provided to key finance 
personnel on relevant developments in 
accounting and financial reporting. The 
Audit Committee is also kept appraised of 
such developments;
• Regular reviews of financial performance 
by senior management;
• The Group’s consolidation, which 
consolidates the results of each business 
unit and makes appropriate adjustments, 
is subject to multiple levels of review by 
the Group Finance function;
• The draft consolidated financial 
statements are reviewed by an individual 
independent from those individuals 
who were responsible for preparing the 
financial statements. The review includes 
checking internal consistency, consistency 
with other statements, consistency 
with internal accounting records and 
arithmetical accuracy;
• The Audit Committee and the Board 
review the draft consolidated financial 
statements. The Audit Committee 
receives reports from management 
and the external auditors on significant 
judgements, changes in accounting 
policies, changes in accounting estimates 
and other pertinent matters relating to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
This enables appropriate challenge to take 
place; and
• The financial statements of all material 
business units are subject to external 
audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to 
audit all Group companies. 
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS AND 
FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR 2016
As part of the review of the Annual Report, 
the Audit Committee concluded that there are 
no significant financial judgements and that 
the key area of discussion for the Committee 
in the financial statements is revenue as it is 
a significant focus for stakeholders.
For the year ended 30 June 2016 the 
Committee has given particular consideration 
to the disclosure and accounting policy for 
the following areas: 
Revenue: Given the nature of HL’s business, 
the revenue stream is non-complex, being 
mainly high volume, low value transactions 
which turn into cash quickly, therefore the 
degree of judgement required over this 
significant area is limited. Whilst considering 
revenue, the Committee received information 
from the CFO, the finance team and the 
external auditor. The Committee reviewed 
and discussed management information 
during the year including absolute levels of 
revenue and variances in revenue between 
2015 and 2016. Particular emphasis has been 
placed on understanding the continued effect 
of low interest rates and the impact of the 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR’s) sunset 
clause on commission receipts. 
Information is also provided to the Committee 
on the performance of cash reconciliations, 
stock reconciliations and client money 
reconciliations, which all underpin the revenue 
calculation. Increased confidence has been 
derived from the external audit approach such 
that revenue streams were recalculated on 
100% of our most significant revenue streams, 
with sample based testing on the remainder. 
Internal Audit have also conducted a review of 
fee charging during the year.
Capitalisation of intangible assets: The 
Group is making a significant investment 
in the development of the HL Savings 
proposition. Given the expected long-term 
benefit to the Group, the Committee has 
discussed the appropriate accounting 
treatment for capitalising the development 
costs incurred. The Committee has reviewed 
and approved the policy for capitalising 
intangible assets. £1.1 million of development 
costs incurred for HL Savings since 1 July 
2015 and £0.4 million of costs relating to the 
on-boarding of a book of client assets have 
been capitalised this year. 
Viability statement: The update to the 
FRC’s Corporate Governance Code regarding 
viability statements applies to accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. 
The year ended 30 June 2016 is the first year 
in which these revisions apply to HL. 
The Committee has reviewed and discussed 
the content of the Viability Statement (as 
shown in the Directors’ report) and made 
recommendations to the Board. In making 
these recommendations the Committee 
considered the timeframe for the viability 
assessment, the principal risks to be 
addressed in the analysis, the nature and 
extent of supporting information and the 
key assumptions underpinning the forecasts. 
Reference was also made to work already 
performed for the ICAAP as reviewed by the 
Risk Committee. 
Adoption of FRS101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework: In 2012 and 2013, the 
FRC fundamentally revised UK financial 
reporting standards by replacing almost all 
existing standards with three new Financial 
Reporting Standards (FRS) - FRS100, 
FRS101 and FRS102. As a result companies 
will move away from UK GAAP towards 
implementation, in part or in full, of IFRS. 
Companies are required to select the most 
suitable standard and implement the 
relevant changes; HL has selected FRS101. 
FRS101 came into effect for reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2015. It 
introduced a reduced disclosure framework 
that enables subsidiaries and their parents to 
use the recognition and measurement bases  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
63
of IFRS without making the level of disclosure 
required by full IFRS. 
The financial year ended 30 June 2016 is 
the first period for which the subsidiary 
companies will report under the new 
standard. The opening balances and 
prior year comparatives of the subsidiary 
companies have been restated along with 
provision of a note to the accounts explaining 
the effect of the transition. The Committee 
discussed and approved the implementation 
of FRS 101 for the Group subsidiaries. During 
the Committee’s discussion, it was recognised 
that a restatement was required to correct 
an error in the accounting at parent company 
level and its subsidiaries relating to employee 
share based remuneration schemes. The 
accounting at Group level was and is correct.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
The Company has put in place arrangements 
to ensure that the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides shareholders 
with the information necessary to assess 
the Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. The Committee 
examined the 2016 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements and was specifically 
tasked by the Board to advise it on 
whether the report is fair, balanced and 
understandable.
The Committee did this by satisfying itself 
that there is a robust process of challenge, 
including challenge by the Committee itself. 
The Committee’s own challenge process 
included questioning the Chief Executive on 
the overall messages and tone of his review 
statement, examining and challenging reports 
from both management and the external 
auditor relating to the Annual Report, and 
reviewing consistency with internal reports 
presented to the Board by management, 
the CFO, Head of Internal Audit, Group 
Director of Risk and Compliance and Chief 
Risk Officer during the year. After challenge, 
debate and consideration of all relevant 
information, the Committee concluded that it 
could recommend to the Board that the 2016 
Annual Report and Financial Statements is 
fair, balanced and understandable.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee is responsible for the 
development, implementation and monitoring 
of the Group’s policy on external audit. The 
policy assigns oversight responsibility for 
monitoring the independence, objectivity 
and compliance with ethical and regulatory 
requirements to the Audit Committee, and 
day to day responsibility to the CFO. The 
policy states that the external auditor is 
jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit 
Committee and that the Audit Committee is 
the primary contact.
The Group’s policy on external audit is 
regularly reviewed to ensure that the 
independence and objectivity of our external 
auditors is maintained. It sets out the 
categories of non-audit services which the 
external auditor will and will not be allowed 
to provide to the Group, subject to de minimis 
levels and Audit Committee Chairman 
approval. The policy establishes guidelines 
for the recruitment of employees or former 
employees of the external auditors and for 
the recruitment of our employees by them. 
The policy further states that our external 
auditor may only be used for non-audit 
work where there are specific circumstances 
which mean they are the only firm able to 
provide a good service at an acceptable 
price. The policy may be found at www.hl.co.
uk/investor-relations/board-of-directors/
corporate-governance.
During the year, the Committee reviewed 
and approved a recommendation from 
management on the Company’s audit and 
non-audit fees. There were £153,000 of 
non-audit fees during 2016 (2015: £110,000). 
£100,000 of this amount related to the 
FCA-mandated audit of subsidiaries regulated 
under the CASS rules. £39,000 related to the 
profit-verification work to enable payment 
of dividends in line with the established 
timetable and £14,000 related to the interim 
review. Fees for the audit for 2016 were 
£131,000 (2015: £110,000). 
Following discussions between the 
Committee, the CFO and the external auditor, 
on ways of improving the efficiency of the 
audit after the second year of PWC’s tenure, a 
number of changes were agreed. In particular, 
the external auditor will focus on completing 
the audit of the Group and significant 
balances in subsidiaries before beginning on 
the audit of the subsidiaries.
There are no contractual or similar obligations 
restricting the Group’s choice of external 
auditor and the external auditor has 
confirmed to the Committee that they remain 
independent.
There has been a change of Senior 
Engagement Partner during the year. 
The Committee discussed the required 
competencies, agreed an interview process 
and then selected the new Partner. The new 
Senior Engagement Partner was in place for 
the 2016 interim review.
The Committee met with the external auditor 
privately this year in order to discuss any 
matters directly with the Senior Engagement 
Partner in the absence of management. 
PwC have acted as auditors to the Group 
since 2013. In line with the EU audit 
regulation requirements, Hargreaves 
Lansdown will be required to review PwC as 
statutory auditor by 2023. This regulation 
requires the Company to undertake a formal 
tender process at least every ten years. In 
addition, the Senior Engagement Partner 
is required to be replaced every five years 
in accordance with the regulation and was 
replaced this year as described above.
The Company has complied with the 
provisions of the Competition Markets 
Authority Order 2014 throughout the year 
under review and as at the date of this report.
The Committee remains satisfied with the 
performance and effectiveness of PwC and 
that they continue to remain independent and 
objective, as demonstrated by consideration 
of the quality, experience, continuity and 
training of the audit team. The Committee 
has therefore recommended to the Board 
that a resolution is put to shareholders 
recommending their reappointment together 
with their terms of engagement and 
remuneration at the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company. This will continue to be 
assessed on an annual basis.
The external auditor will be asked to attend 
the AGM and will be available to answer 
shareholders’ questions about the audit and 
their report found on page 93. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
64
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling 
its responsibilities through its oversight of 
the adequacy of resourcing and plans of the 
Internal Audit department. Internal Audit 
presents its plans for audit, using a risk based 
approach, to the Committee twice a year for 
prioritisation and approval. The Internal Audit 
charter can be found on our website at www.
hl.co.uk.
Having conducted a review of the Internal 
Audit department the Committee is happy 
with both its resources and plans. The 
Institute of Internal Auditors recommends 
that an external review of the Internal Audit 
function is carried out no less than every 
five years. Our Internal Audit function had 
a satisfactory external review carried out 
in May 2012. An external review of Internal 
Audit took place in August and September 
2016, Protiviti were appointed to conduct the 
work. 
The Chairman of the Committee was in 
regular contact with the Head of Internal 
Audit throughout the year.
The Committee met with the Head of Internal 
Audit privately this year in order to discuss 
any matters directly in the absence of 
management.
IT & OTHER INTERNAL 
CONTROLS
The Committee received a report from the 
Risk Committee with its conclusions on the 
design and effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management systems. The Committee 
considered this alongside a report from the 
Head of Internal Audit on the effectiveness 
of internal controls and demonstrating 
management responsiveness in addressing 
issues identified.
The Committee receives reports at each 
meeting from Compliance and Risk, as well as 
Internal Audit. The Committee challenged the 
key executives on the content and veracity of 
those reports and the Committee has been 
satisfied that appropriate arrangements, 
actions or mitigating controls are in place. 
Topics addressed this year included:
• CASS governance, enhancements to CASS 
management information and embedding 
CASS development in the project 
management process;
• Review and discussion of the CASS audit 
for the year ended 31 May 2016;
• Capacity and scalability of IT systems;
• Continuing enhancements to the core IT 
operating platform;
• IT security testing, including social 
engineering, phishing and Denial of 
Service attacks (both DOS & DDOS);
• Transfers of books of client assets from 
collective investment providers to HL;
• Introduction of a high level controls 
dashboard, providing an at-a-glance 
view of management’s assessment of 
the status of key controls overlaid with 
Internal Audit’s assessment; 
• Progress towards aligning individual 
performance objectives with those of the 
organisation;
• A review of the organisation’s culture; and
• Arrangements to support whistle-blowing.
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
EFFECTIVENESS
Following last year’s independent review 
of the effectiveness of the Committee, the 
following action was taken:
• An additional meeting was added to the 
Committee’s programme.
• Drafts of the Annual Financial Statements 
and the Annual Report were provided 
to the Committee at an earlier stage 
to ensure there is sufficient time for 
members of the Committee to review, 
challenge and provide input.
• At the Committee’s request, Internal 
Audit conducted a review of the culture 
of the organisation to ensure compliance 
with the FRC’s requirement that it be 
considered by the Board. The results of 
this work have been reviewed, discussed 
by the Committee and referred to the 
Board
• The Committee has continued to oversee 
and provide challenge to the evolution of 
the organisation’s control framework.
Following an independent review last 
year, the Committee chose to review its 
effectiveness this year by means of a 
self-assessment questionnaire. The results 
showed that the Committee believes it is 
operating effectively and working as should 
be expected. 
ALLOCATION OF TIME
The chart above shows how the Committee 
spent its time in the year to 30 June 2016.
Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Shirley Garrood
Chairman of the Audit Committee
6 September 2016
The chart below provides an illustration 
of the approximate percentage of time 
spent by the Committee on various 
matters during 2015/16.
n	 29%  Financial Reporting
n	 9%  External Audit
n	 16%  Internal Audit
n	 30%  IT & Other Internal Controls
n	 16%  Other
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
ALLOCATION OF TIME HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
65
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY 
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
I am pleased to present the Committee’s 
report for 2016 on behalf of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s remuneration 
practices are designed to promote the long-
term success of the Company by supporting 
the business strategy and we believe 
that this is best done by motivating and 
retaining our talented employees. Our overall 
remuneration package aligns the long-term 
interests of Executive Directors with those of 
our shareholders and other stakeholders by 
incentivising the growth in the value of the 
business over the long-term.
The Remuneration Committee continues 
to be satisfied that the structure of the 
remuneration package ensures appropriate 
consideration is given to environmental, 
social and governance issues, does not 
incentivise inappropriate risk taking and will 
continue to ensure that there is no reward for 
inappropriate behaviour demonstrated by any 
Executive Director.
During the year we have spent considerable 
time discussing the application and results of 
our remuneration policy and endeavouring 
to ensure that we achieve the best results 
for all of our stakeholders. The results of that 
review are detailed below.
BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2016
The Committee’s considered view of how the 
Group had performed in 2016 was positive. 
The return to profit growth was important 
from a number of perspectives and this has 
been achieved despite the headwinds of the 
weak stock markets through the year and 
poor investor sentiment. The Committee 
was pleased to note the growth in client 
numbers was very strong at 100,000 and 
that the Group remains the largest business 
of its type in the UK according to Platforum 
(March 2016, UK D2C Guide: Market Size and 
Structure, page 4). We gained share in major 
markets and strategic initiatives such as the 
launch of new HLFM funds were successful in 
helping to drive Assets Under Administration 
in excess of £60bn. Our service levels 
remained high and our client retention 
numbers improved over last year. Over 
the course of the year we have invested in 
broadening our client offerings in the longer 
term. The Committee therefore considered 
that 2016 had been a year of strong results 
delivered by sound executive decisions in 
poor market conditions. Management share 
in both the upside and downside of these 
factors and therefore the Executive Director 
and wider senior management bonus pool for 
2016 was increased compared to 2015.
Outline of remuneration for Executive 
Directors
Hargreaves Lansdown provides a simple 
remuneration package consisting of base 
salary, annual bonus, and equity ownership 
in addition to the same benefits package, 
pension and salary sacrifice arrangements 
that are available to all employees of the 
Group. 
The total bonus pool is capped as a 
proportion of profit before tax which 
establishes a clear link between rewards to 
shareholders and to both Executive Directors 
and senior management within the Group. 
Individual payments to Executive Directors 
are capped as a percentage of base salary. 
The annual bonus is partly paid immediately 
in cash with 30% deferred into shares and/
or cash for three years with mandatory 
deferral into shares until the Executive 
Director achieves the minimum shareholding 
requirement. The deferred element is subject 
to a malus provision and bonus earned for 
2016 onwards is also subject to a clawback 
provision.
The long-term incentive plan provides share 
options that vest after three years, subject 
to formal performance conditions and also 
subject to malus, and, for awards made 
from 2015 onwards, vested awards will be 
subject to a clawback provision. However, 
as discussed in more detail below, the 
Committee has decided not to make an LTIP 
award in 2017.
There is also a minimum shareholding 
requirement.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2016
In the light of the Committee’s assessment 
of improved business and personal 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
66
performance, the Chief Executive’s annual 
bonus earned for the year was 32% higher 
than last year following two years in which 
the total of base salary plus bonus declined 
year on year.
The 2013 LTIP will vest following the 
Committee’s formal review of the 
performance criteria based upon the outcome 
of the three year performance period ending 
30 June 2016. An indication of the value at 
vesting is:
• The EPS performance target has not been 
achieved.
• The Net New Business target was very 
nearly fully achieved.
• The Net New Clients target was achieved 
in full.
• A resulting 33,036 options of the 50,000 
granted will vest.
• At the end of the performance period, 
vested options have a zero value due to 
the exercise price being below the market 
price. These may be retained by Directors 
until expiration as an increase in the share 
price may create value at a future date. 
ACTIONS TAKEN DURING 2016
During the period the business of the 
Remuneration Committee included the 
following:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Report in the 
2015 Annual Report was reviewed, with 
consideration given to all of the feedback 
received from institutional shareholders.
• The performance conditions for the 
Executive Directors Share Option Plan 
(LTIP) were set, including the new 
customer service level condition, and 
the level of awards to be made to 
each Executive Director in respect of 
performance for the year ended 30 June 
2015 under the LTIP were determined and 
an LTIP grant made.
• The remuneration for Christopher Hill, as 
the new CFO, was agreed, including the 
provision of share awards to replicate 
those given up from his previous 
employment, and the LTIP award was 
made proportionate to the duration of 
his employment during this financial 
year. Further details are provided in the 
Implementation Report.
• A formal assessment of risk performance 
was received and considered in relation to 
remuneration.
• The base salary levels and performance 
bonuses for the Executive Directors were 
reviewed and agreed, and salary levels for 
other senior management and ‘Material 
Risk Takers’ under the FCA Remuneration 
Code and “Identified Staff” under 
the AIFMD Remuneration Code were 
reviewed. The required Remuneration 
Code disclosure was reviewed and agreed.
• The Committee received and considered 
proposals for a change in remuneration 
structure across the Group.
• The effectiveness of the Remuneration 
Committee was reviewed and it was 
concluded that the Committee remained 
effective throughout the year.
The Non-Executive Directors remuneration 
levels were reviewed by the Chairman 
and Executive Directors in the light of the 
increased time commitment required for 
them to appropriately fulfil their duties as 
Non-Executive Directors.
Taking account of shareholder views
We were delighted that last year’s 
remuneration report received a favourable 
vote of 97.69% from shareholders. The 
Remuneration Policy was not put to the vote 
in 2015. 
We have also consulted with our very 
largest shareholders this year on executive 
remuneration matters. The majority by share 
ownership indicated their support for the 
changes that we have made.
CHANGES IN REMUNERATION APPROACH 
FOR 2017
Changes to reward structure
The direction of travel in financial services 
pay continues to be rebalancing remuneration 
towards base pay from variable, with 
a commensurate reduction in total 
remuneration opportunity. In addition to this, 
more broadly, there continues to be a debate 
on the complexity of executive pay.
After reviewing the application of our policy, 
and also the report from the Investment 
Association Executive Remuneration Working 
Group on remuneration, we believe that 
shareholder interests will be better served 
by applying the policy in a simpler way going 
forward. As a result, we do not intend to 
grant an allocation under the LTIP this coming 
year. 
We believe that the structure of the current 
LTIP with up to three performance criteria 
each measured over a three year period 
using market based options with each award 
having its own strike price has resulted in 
an excessive number of variables in play. 
This level of complexity reduces the LTIP’s 
effectiveness, and there is an argument that 
executives may not be positively influenced 
as a result. At the same time, due to share 
based payment accounting, it represents a 
cost to shareholders.
The large majority of Hargreaves Lansdown 
profit turns into cash in the year that 
it is generated. The largest impacts on 
performance over three years are the value 
of the FTSE and investor sentiment, interest 
rates and, in recent history, regulation. None 
of these are directly under the control of the 
Executive Directors and these factors make it 
hard to forecast three year performance and 
reward our Executive Directors fairly.
This has led us to conclude that it would 
be better to simplify the operation of our 
remuneration structure for the future by 
ceasing to make further LTIP awards. We 
are not alone in this – discussion with other 
Remuneration Committee chairs has revealed 
similar views and we note the conclusions 
of the Investment Association Executive 
Remuneration Working Group Report that 
alternatives to LTIP’s may be used where 
more appropriate.
We intend to increase the bonus that would 
be payable for performance in line with the 
annual business plan by the expected value 
of the LTIP (c.10% of average bonus). The 
maximum opportunity under the bonus plan 
will not be increased and will remain at 400%  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
67
of salary each year.  Additionally, Executives 
will be required to defer 40% of their bonus 
into Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares for 
three years, increased from 30% in previous 
years, with no phased vesting.
In making this combination of changes, we 
do not expect that any variable benefits will 
be delivered to our Executives earlier than 
they would have otherwise received it under 
the LTIP . In adopting these proposals the 
ultimate value received by our executives will 
continue to reflect the annual performance 
of the business and the value delivered to 
shareholders over a three year period, as 
reflected in the Hargreaves Lansdown share 
price.
Shareholders should also note that the 
maximum total incentive compensation 
opportunity for the Executive Directors at 
Hargreaves Lansdown will decrease. 
Separately, we also commit to increasing the 
level of disclosure with regards to the bonus 
performance conditions going forward. 
We plan to review the change of approach to 
LTIPs and deferral before our AGM in 2017, 
when our remuneration policy is due to be 
renewed. If we judge that the changes have 
been effective, we will incorporate them into 
a revised Remuneration Policy that will then 
be submitted to a vote in accordance with the 
three year cycle.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE SALARY LEVEL 
We have decided to increase Ian Gorham’s 
base salary for the second time since he 
assumed the role in 2010, as part of the 
rebalancing between fixed and variable pay 
highlighted in the last two year’s reports. 
As a reminder, last year we reduced the 
maximum annual bonus from five to four 
times base salary and increased the Chief 
Executive’s salary by £50,000. This reduced 
the theoretical maximum by much more than 
the increase in salary. 
 
The Chief Executive’s base salary increased 
from £500,000 to £550,000 per annum from 
1st July 2016, an increase of 10%. With the 
removal of the LTIP , the total compensation 
opportunity for the Chief Executive will 
decrease significantly in the forthcoming 
financial year.
We can confirm that we will not increase the 
Chief Executive’s base salary further before 
30th June 2018.
Direction of travel
After much uncertainty over the CRD 
IV guidelines from the EBA, these were 
published in early 2016 and the FCA 
responded in February 2016. The FCA 
response was that they would comply 
with all aspects other than allowing, where 
appropriate, proportionality to be applied to 
two areas. These were the limit on awarding 
variable remuneration of one times fixed 
remuneration (or two times with shareholder 
approval) and the application of the “pay-out 
process rules”. Hargreaves Lansdown is 
continuing to dis-apply both of these on the 
basis of proportionality. 
The one change resulting from this guidance 
which does impact Hargreaves Lansdown is 
that dividends on deferred shares granted 
to Material Risk Takers and Identified Staff 
cannot be paid during the period of deferral. 
The implementation date for the guidelines 
is 1 January 2017, and the changes will 
apply to the 2017 performance period. We 
fundamentally disagree with the logic of this 
restriction and will lobby hard for it to be 
lifted as it betrays the concept of alignment of 
interest with shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will continue 
to keep the balance of the remuneration 
package under review in the light of ongoing 
market and regulatory change.
COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND 
BEST PRACTICE
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups Regulations 2013. It 
also meets the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules.
The Remuneration Committee confirms 
throughout the financial year that the 
Company has complied with these 
governance rules and best practice provision.
The report is split into two sections:
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, 
which includes the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman’s Statement, 
details the payments made to Directors 
and explains the link between Group 
performance and remuneration for the 
2015/16 financial year (the ‘Annual Report 
on Remuneration’). This will be subject to 
an advisory shareholder vote at this year’s 
AGM.
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the 
‘Remuneration Policy’ or ‘Policy’), which 
sets out Hargreaves Lansdown’s policy 
for Directors of Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc (Executive Directors and Non-
Executive Directors collectively known 
as ‘Directors‘). This was approved by 
shareholders at our Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) on 24 October 2014, and 
is included here to provide shareholders 
with a complete picture of remuneration.  
It is the intention of the Committee that 
this Policy will be in effect for three years 
from the date of approval in October 
2014.
I would like to commend the Annual Report 
on Remuneration to our shareholders.
Christopher D. Barling
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6 September 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
68
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION POLICY
The Committee has put the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy into practice recognising 
that achieving the appropriate balance 
and determining a fair outcome in setting 
a competitive level of total remuneration 
involves judgement. In forming this judgement, 
the Committee considers pay data at similar 
size and scale companies operating in similar 
sectors. However, these do not determine 
what remuneration the Company offers 
but rather set the context within which an 
individual’s rewards will be positioned. In 
determining that positioning, the primary 
factors taken into account are the challenges 
the individual faces in their role, and their 
ability, experience and performance.
HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WILL BE 
APPLIED FOR 2017
A summary of how the Policy will be applied 
during the forthcoming year is set out below.
Executive Directors’ salaries
The Executive Directors’ base salaries were 
reviewed in June 2016. In reviewing base 
salaries the Committee takes into account 
salaries elsewhere across the Group, relevant 
market data and information on remuneration 
practice in a comparator group of companies in 
the financial sector. 
The Chief Executive’s base salary has been 
increased as part of the rebalancing between 
fixed and variable pay highlighted in the last 
two year’s reports. This increase is the second 
since his appointment. The increase was 10% 
and should be considered in the light of last 
year’s reduction in the maximum annual bonus 
opportunity from five times base salary to four 
times. Since the Chief Executive took office on 
2nd September 2010, the Company’s sales 
have grown by 122%, the Company’s profit 
by 154% and the share price by 219%, during 
which time we have become an established 
member of the FTSE 100.
The base salary figures in the following 
table are the reference base salaries of the 
Executive Director before any salary sacrifice 
or exchange into pension or other benefits. 
The Remuneration Committee does not intend 
to award a further salary increase to the Chief 
Executive before 30th June 2018.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
The Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed 
in June 2016. In the last two years, the number 
of Board meetings has increased and now 
stands at six per annum, five of which are now 
scheduled over a two day cycle. In addition, 
following last year’s Board review, it was 
agreed that all the Non-Executive Directors 
would spend more time in the business outside 
of formal Board meetings. Accordingly, the 
number of days expected of Non-Executive 
Directors has increased from 15 to 25 days, 
and all Non-Executive Directors now all commit 
more time than this to their roles.
As a result, we have increased the base fee of 
£50,000 to £52,500 per annum and added 
a fee for membership of each committee of 
£2,500 (which is not payable to Committee 
Chairs). There are additional unchanged fees for 
the Senior Independent Director role (£12,500 
per annum) and for chairing committees 
(Remuneration £12,500 per annum, Audit 
£25,000 per annum, Investment £10,000 
per annum). Details of the membership of 
the committees are given in their respective 
reports and within the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 52 to 59. The Chairman’s fee is 
unchanged at £250,000.
Annual Bonus
The total bonus pool for Executive Directors 
and senior management will remain capped 
at 5% of profit before tax and payments to 
Executive Directors will remain capped at 400% 
of salary. As noted we intend to increase the 
bonus that will be payable for performance 
in line with the annual business plan by the 
expected value of the LTIP (c 10%). Executive 
Directors will be required to defer 40% of their 
bonus into Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares 
for three years, increased from 30% in previous 
years, with no phased vesting. As a result of the 
EBA guidelines, for awards made for the 2017 
performance period onwards, no dividends 
(or dividend equivalents) will be paid out on 
deferred awards held in shares from that year. 
The size of the pool will be determined by the 
Committee’s assessment of how the Group 
has performed against its business plan taking 
into account growth in profit before tax, net 
new assets, net new clients, client service 
measure including net promoter score and 
client retention. In making this assessment, the 
Committee will give due consideration to market 
movements, investor sentiment, interest rates 
and the impact of regulation, all of which are 
beyond the control of the Executive Directors. 
Details of the Committee’s assessment will be 
given in the Remuneration Report next year. 
Executive Directors’ individual performance will 
be assessed against personal objectives. 
The objectives for Ian Gorham are: to deliver 
a new strategic plan; to deliver financial 
results to the satisfaction of shareholders 
in a risk controlled environment; to deliver 
the successful launch of HL Savings; to 
maintain client satisfaction; and to support 
and promote focus on people development.  
The Committee considers that the two further 
objectives are commercially sensitive and will 
be disclosed retrospectively as appropriate, in 
subsequent Remuneration Reports.
The objectives for Christopher Hill are: to 
deliver the results and the financial plan; 
to deliver operational efficiency whilst 
maintaining service levels; and to review and 
strengthen the finance team. The Committee 
considers that the three further objectives are 
commercially sensitive and will be disclosed 
retrospectively as appropriate, in subsequent 
Remuneration Reports.
ANNUAL REPORT ON 
REMUNERATION
 
THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 
ALSO ENCOMPASSES THE CHAIRMAN OF THE 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE’S STATEMENT
Name of Director Salary as at 1st July 
2016 (£)
Salary as at 1st July 
2015 (£)
% increase 
Ian Gorham 550,000 500,000 10
Christopher Hill
1
425,000 - 0
1
Christopher Hill joined the PLC Board on 4th February 2016 on a base salary of £425,000 per annum. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
69
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
We have decided not to make an award 
under the LTIP in 2017. Our rationale for this 
decision is as detailed in the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committees Statement on 
pages 65 and 67.
Under the ‘Gain on historic options vesting’, 
the amounts shown are a best estimate of 
amounts to be paid in respect of performance 
periods concluding at the date of the end of 
the reporting period. Other than SAYE options 
(which are available to Directors on the same 
basis as all employees), and the awards 
made to Christopher Hill on joining, no share 
options without performance criteria have 
been granted to Executive Directors since 7th 
March 2012.   
                                                                          
The base salary figures in the above table are 
the reference base salaries of the Executive 
Director gross of any salary sacrifice or 
exchange into pension or other benefits. 
Bonuses are shown net of any waiver the 
Director made in respect of additional 
Employer pension contributions.
Benefits in kind are available to all employees 
on the same basis. Currently benefits include: 
local car parking scheme; childcare vouchers; 
4% of base salary employer pension 
contributions; reduced platform fees for 
holding assets in Vantage; reduced dealing 
charges for self and connected persons; 
ability to participate in the Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) scheme. The Group altered the SAYE 
scheme this year to shorten the eligibility 
period and the length of the scheme from five 
years to three years and this has resulted in 
a greater participation from employees into 
the scheme. 
No Director has a prospective entitlement 
to a defined benefit pension by reference to 
their length of qualifying service.
The remuneration received by Non-Executive 
Directors in 2016 is set out in the following 
table.
Non-Executive Directors received no other 
benefits or other remuneration other than 
reimbursement of all reasonable and properly 
documented travel, hotel and other incidental 
expenses incurred in the performance of 
their duties and any tax and social costs 
arising thereon, the benefit of officers’ liability 
insurance and reduced fees for the use of 
Hargreaves Lansdown services for themselves 
and connected persons, on the same basis as 
all other Hargreaves Lansdown staff.
1
 Ian Gorham waived £15,000 of his salary (2015: £17,000) in favour of making a higher pension contribution. 
2
 Remuneration for Christopher Hill is shown for the period from 4th February 2016.
3
 The 2012 LTIP performance period ended on 30 June 2015 and the gain previously disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report of £281k had been calculated based on the average market value over the 
period from 1 April 2015 to 30 June 2015. The figure shown above reflects the actual gain on the 52,441 shares exercised. The market value on exercise was £14.80 and the exercise price was £6.87, 
giving a gain per share of £7.93.
4
 The 2013 LTIP performance period ended on 30 June 2016.Based on the average market value of £12.91 over the period from 1 April 2016 to 30 June 2016 there has been no gain given the exercise 
price of £13.29. 
5
 The Directors have taken benefits as a sacrifice to their salary. Ian Gorham sacrificed £44,000 (2015: £32,000) in order to fund pension contributions and in regards of car parking and unpaid leave. 
Christopher Hill sacrificed £2,000 (2015: £nil) in order to fund pension contributions. The amounts shown as gross basic salary are prior to any sacrifice deductions.
6
 The gross cash bonus is shown after deducting amounts sacrificed into pension contributions. No amounts were sacrificed in 2016 and in 2015 Ian Gorham sacrificed £20,000.
7
 Pension contributions include those sacrificed from bonuses. No such sacrifices were made in 2016 and in 2015 Ian Gorham sacrificed £20,000.
8 
The figure shown as salary in the prior year’s DRR was £418,000 which was the salary received net of waivers made in return for pension and other benefits. The figure shown above is salary prior 
to any waiver. The pension figure shown for the prior year’s DRR was £60,000, which included £17,000 waived from salary.
Name of Director Year Gross 
basic 
salary
5
Cash bonus
6
Deferred 
element of 
bonus - shares
Deferred 
element of 
bonus - cash
Gain on 
historic 
options 
vesting
Pension
7
Totals
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ian Gorham
1
2016 500 1,085 465 -
4
 21 2,071 
2015 450
8
805 345 - 416
3
 43
8
2,059 
Christopher Hill
2
 2016 179 263 112 - - 4 558
 2015 - - - - - - -
REMUNERATION PAYABLE FOR THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR (1 JULY 2015 TO 30 JUNE 2016) (AUDITED)
The remuneration received by Executive Directors in relation to performance in 2016 is set out below.
Non-Executive Directors 
and Chairman
2016 
Fees (£)
2015 
Fees (£)
Mike Evans, Chairman 250,000 152,500
Christopher Barling 75,000 75,000
Stephen Robertson 50,000 50,000
Shirley Garrood 75,000 75,000
Jayne Styles
 1
41,379 -
Dharmash Mistry
 2
8,333 50,000
1
 Emoluments for Jayne Styles for 2016 are shown for the 
eight months following her appointment to the Board on 23rd 
October 2015.
2
 Emoluments for Dharmash Mistry for 2016 are shown for 
the two months up to his resignation from the Board on 31st 
August 2015. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
70
ANNUAL BONUS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30 
JUNE 2016 (AUDITED)
The size of the bonus pool was determined by 
the Committee based on the performance of the 
Group against a number of financial measures, 
detailed below. The bonus pool covers both 
Executive Directors and the wider senior 
management team and is subject to a cap of 5% 
of profit before tax, in line with the Policy.
Each individual Executive Director’s performance 
and that of the senior management team has 
been considered by the Committee against 
specific personal objectives to ensure that 
allocation of the pool is consistent with 
individual performance. The bonuses awarded 
to Executive Directors have been constrained to 
a maximum cap of four times base salary this 
year as per the tightened Policy, and details are 
reported below.
30% of the bonus awarded is deferred into 
shares and/or cash for three years with 
mandatory deferral into shares until the 
Executive Director achieves the minimum 
shareholding requirement, subject only 
to continuing employment and with no 
performance conditions as this is a reward 
for performance in the financial year. The non 
deferred bonus is subject to clawback and the 
deferred bonus is subject to malus. 
The size of the bonus pool was determined 
taking account of the Group’s key performance 
indicators for the relevant financial year; 
underlying profit before tax, operating margin, 
and underlying earnings per share. The 
Remuneration Committee also considered 
the quality of customer service provided and 
factors including compliance, regulatory and 
Internal and External Audit feedback, conduct 
risk, ESG factors, and received assurance from 
the Risk Committee that performance has not 
been achieved by taking risks and actions 
outside of the Group’s stated risk appetite. 
There was also consideration of impacts on 
profit outside of management’s control such as 
market and interest rate movements. 
The Committee has considered each individual 
Director’s performance against his or her 
personal objectives to ensure that awards 
are made where performance so merits and 
that they had individually not taken any 
inappropriate behaviour. No such concerns 
were raised during the year.
The relevant measures and the Committee’s 
assessment of performance are as shown below:
The Committee’s assessment of how the 
Group had performed in 2016 was positive. 
The return to profit growth was important 
from a number of perspectives and this been 
achieved despite the headwinds of weak 
stock markets through the year and poor 
investor sentiment. It is true to say that the 
performance was below our business plan 
largely due to factors outside of our control. 
It is for this very reason that the Committee 
resists the use of fixed targets against 
Key
Significantly ahead of expectations ****
Ahead of expectations ***
At or around expectations **
Below expectations *
Profit 
before tax
Net new 
business
Net new 
clients
Operating profit margin 
(on net revenue)
Results £218.9m £6.0bn 100,000 66.8%
Business plan £229.3m £7.2bn 93,000 68.3%
Committee’s assessment ** * *** **
Cash £’000 Deferred 
£’000
Total £’000 % of cap
Ian Gorham
1
£1,085 £465 £1,550 77.5%
Christopher Hill
2
£263 £112 £375 54.5%
1
 Ian Gorham’s bonus in the two preceding years had reduced year on year by -10% and -13%.
2
 Christopher Hill’s bonus was based on his performance as CFO from 4th February 2016 and the cap is pro-rated for time served.
Ian Gorham
Objective Committee’s assessment
Deliver relevant actions from Board Effectiveness Review **
Deliver clear organisational model with reduced direct reports, 
enhanced focus on leadership & development and CFO 
recruitment
***
Delivery of results against key performance indicators **
Maintain robustness and reputation of Group, with focus on 
scalability, capacity, cost control and risk management
** 
Delivery of successful and clearly communicated strategy **
Christopher Hill
Objective Committee’s assessment
Deliver success in Group’s financial metrics **
Deliver efficient and effective Operations function **
Effectively manage interested stakeholders in Group’s financial 
position
**
The resulting bonuses for the year ending 30 June 2016 were: HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
71
which performance is measured, given the 
high degree of external factors at play. The 
Committee was pleased to note the growth in 
client numbers was very strong at 100,000 
and that the Group remains the largest 
business of its type in the UK according 
to Platforum. We gained share in major 
markets and strategic initiatives such as the 
launch of new HLFM funds were successful 
helping to drive Assets Under Administration 
in excess of £60bn. Our service levels 
remained high and our client retention 
numbers improved over last year. Over 
the course of the year we have invested in 
broadening our client offerings in the longer 
term. The Committee therefore considered 
that 2016 had been a year of strong results 
delivered by sound executive decisions 
in poor market conditions. The increased 
profit in particular warranted an enhanced 
bonus pool for Executive Directors and wider 
senior management team for 2016 which the 
Committee determined should be 1.83% of 
profit before tax as compared to 1.78% for 
the previous year.
The Committee individually considers each 
Director’s performance and that of the senior 
management team against objectives to 
ensure allocation of the pool is consistent 
with individual performance. 
Deferral of annual performance bonuses 
In line with previously stated intentions, 
30% of the annual performance bonuses 
are deferred for three years. Providing the 
Director satisfied the minimum shareholding 
target with reference to base salary, the option 
was given for deferred awards to be either 
in shares on which dividends (or dividend 
equivalents) are earned or in cash on which 
no interest will be earned, or a mixture of 
shares and cash. The right to exercise deferred 
awards will vest after three years provided 
the individual remains employed by the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Group.
For additional information, the history of the 
performance measures and the bonus pool 
for the last five years is:
Measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Profit before tax (“PBT”) £218.9m £199.0m £209.8m £195.2m £152.8m
Net new business £6.0bn £6.1bn £6.4bn £5.1bn £3.2bn
Net new clients 100,000 84,000 144,000 76,000 45,000
Net operating margin (on net revenue) 66.8% 67.3% 71.3% 71.5% 67.8%
Client Service Measure 249 240 216 266 249
Bonus pool as % of PBT 1.83% 1.78% 2.42% 3.53% 3.75%
Target Weighting of each 
condition
Minimum Maximum Performance Achievement
EPS 33.3% 36.6p 43.4p 35.0p 0%
Net new business 33.3% £14.4bn £18.6bn £18.5bn 98.2%
Net new clients 33.3% 210,000 285,000 328,000 100%
Vesting of long-term incentive awards 
for financial year ending 30 June 2016 
(Audited)
The performance period for the LTIP awards 
made for the year ended 30th June 2013 will 
come to an end on the third anniversary of 
the award. The LTIP targets and the outcomes 
achieved are detailed below. 
For each of the performance criteria achieved 
in full 16,666 options are exercisable. For the 
criteria achieved in part, a pro-rated number of 
options is exercisable.
For each participant 33,036 options of the 
50,000 granted will vest. At the end of the 
performance period vested options have a 
zero value due to the exercise price being 
below the market value. These may be 
retained by Directors until expiration as an 
increase in the share price may create value at 
a future date. 
The 2012 LTIP vested during the year and 
52,441 options of the 60,000 granted vested 
for each participant. The share price on the 
date of vesting, 16th September 2015, was 
£12.34 
SHARE AWARDS MADE DURING THE YEAR 
ENDING 30 JUNE 2016 (AUDITED)
In respect of performances of the Executive 
Directors during the year ended 30 June 
2015, the Remuneration Committee made 
awards under the LTIP on 7th October 2015 
to Ian Gorham, and on 3rd March 2016 to 
Christopher Hill. Ian Gorham received an award 
of options of 60,000 shares (the face value of 
these awards being 154% of base salary for Ian 
Gorham). Christopher Hill received an award of 
50,000 shares (the face value of these awards 
being 148% of base salary for Christopher Hill). 
These awards are well within the maximum 
levels permitted by the rules of the plan.
Existing share awards forfeited by Christopher 
Hill at his previous employer as a result of 
his appointment at Hargreaves Lansdown 
were bought out by an award of Hargreaves  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
72
Lansdown shares at the same or a discounted 
basis to the current estimated value of the 
previous award and will vest on the same 
dates as the benefit being replaced. No 
performance conditions are attached because 
the existing benefits being bought out have 
none attached.
Name of 
Director
Type of 
award
Market 
value of 
maximum 
award at 
date of 
grant
Exercise 
price
Share price 
on date of 
grant
Number of 
shares over 
which the 
award was 
granted
Face value 
of award
1
Fair value 
at date of 
grant
2
% of face 
value that 
would vest 
at threshold
Perfor-
mance/ vest-
ing period
Ian Gorham LTIP Two and a 
half times 
salary – 
£1,250,000
£12.42 £12.84 60,000 £770,400 £25,200 25% 1 July 2015 – 
30 Jun 2018
Christopher 
Hill
3
LTIP Two and a 
half times 
salary – 
£1,062,500
£12.56 £12.56 50,000 £ 628,000 - 25% 1 July 2015 – 
30 Jun 2018
Christopher 
Hill
Unapproved 
share 
option 
4
n/a Nil cost 
option
£12.56 27,100 £340,376 £340,376 n/a 3 Mar 2016 – 
4 Aug 2016
Christopher 
Hill
Unapproved 
share 
option 
4
n/a Nil cost 
option
£12.56 12,200 £153,232 £153,232 n/a 3 Mar 2016 – 
4 Aug 2017
Christopher 
Hill
SAYE
 4
-
3
£10.28 £12.93 1,750 £22,628 £4,638 n/a 1 June 2016 – 
1 June 2019
1
 Face value is calculated as the share price at the date of grant multiplied by the number of options granted.
2
 Fair value is calculated as the difference between market value and the exercise price at the date of grant. Note that SAYE options were granted at a discount, on the same basis as for all employees. 
3
 Savings into the SAYE are capped at a maximum of £500 per month.
4
 These are non-performance related awards.
Performance condition Percentage of award Threshold Maximum
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) 
2
33% 42.7p 51.2p
Net new business inflows 33%
1 1
Client Service measure 33% 215 265
1 
The precise targets for net new business inflows are commercially sensitive and cannot be disclosed in full.  The Committee 
will disclose the net new business inflow targets (and performance against those targets) in the first remuneration report of the 
Company following the end of the performance period.
2 
For earnings per share, the target is based on average undiluted basic EPS for each financial year in the performance period.
Performance conditions for the awards made 
under the plan during the year ended 30 June 
2016 were as follows, with the performance 
period commencing 1 July 2015: HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
73
Hargreaves Lansdown has a long history 
of industry leading client service and 
this underpins the pricing model that the 
Company has been able to sustain. The 
objective of the Client Service Measure is to 
maintain this industry leading position.
This internally constructed measure consists 
of a combination of Net Promoter Scores 
across each of three key product areas, SIPP , 
ISA and Fund and Share Account and our 
client retention rate.
Each target will have a threshold and 
maximum target set by the Committee. 
Provided the threshold is achieved, 25% 
of that part of the Option relating to that 
performance condition will vest, rising to 
vesting in full if the maximum target is met 
or exceeded. For performance between the 
minimum and maximum targets, the vesting 
will be pro-rated on a straight line basis 
between 25% and 100%.
Remuneration arrangements for new CFO, 
Christopher Hill
As disclosed in last year’s Remuneration 
Report, the package agreed by the Committee 
for Christopher Hill was a base salary of 
£425,000 per annum, eligibility for annual 
bonus (pro-rated for time to be employed), 
participation in the LTIP and participation in 
other benefits on the same basis as other 
Executive Directors. On appointment, a 
subset of his existing benefits was bought out 
on the same terms and in accordance with 
the recruitment section of the Remuneration 
Policy. 
OUTSTANDING SHARE OPTIONS AND 
SHARE AWARDS 
The table below sets out details of 
outstanding share options and awards for 
Executive Directors. These figures included 
have ben audited.
1
 These are non-performance related awards
Name of 
director
Scheme Grant 
date
Exercise 
price £
Number 
of shares 
under 
option at 1 
July 2015
Number 
granted 
during 
year
Number 
exercised 
during the 
year
Market 
value 
at the 
date of 
exercise
£
Number 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number 
of shares 
under 
option 
and unex-
ercised at 
30 June 
2016
End of 
perfor-
mance 
period 
Vesting 
date
Perfor-
mance/ 
vesting 
period
Date of 
expiry of 
option
Ian Gorham 2015 LTIP 07/10/15 12.42 - 60,000 - - 60,000 30/06/18 07/10/18 3 years 07/10/21
Deferred 
bonus 
options 
1
7/10/15 Nil - 29,921 - - 29,921 07/10/18 3 years 07/01/19
Sharesave 
1
14/04/15 9.58 1,565 - - - 1,565 - 01/05/20 5 years 01/11/20
2014 LTIP 02/10/14 9.32 55,000 - - - 55,000 30/06/17 02/10/17 3 years 02/10/20
2013 LTIP 17/02/14 13.29 50,000 - - - 50,000 30/06/16 07/09/16 3 years 17/02/20
2012 LTIP 31/12/12 6.87 60,000 - 52,441 14.80 7,559 - 30/06/15 16/09/15 3 years 31/12/18
Deferred 
bonus 
options 
1
17/02/14 Nil 16,865 - - - 16,865 - 17/02/17 3 years 01/10/17
Deferred 
bonus 
options 
1
02/10/14 Nil 21,809 - - - 21,809 - 02/10/17 3 years 02/01/18
Sharesave
 1
29/03/12 3.65 4,109 - - 4,109 - 01/05/17 5 years 01/11/17
Christopher 
Hill
2015 LTIP 03/03/16 12.56 - 50,000 - - 50,000 30/06/18 03/03/19 3 years 03/03/22
Unap-
proved 
1
03/03/16 Nil - 27,100 - - 27,100 - 04/08/16 5 months 03/03/26
Unap-
proved 
1
03/03/16 Nil - 12,200 - - 12,200 - 04/08/17 17 months 03/03/26
Sharesave
 1
08/04/16 10.28 - 1,750 - - 1,750 - 01/06/19 3 years 01/12/19 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
74
The market value of the Company’s shares was 
£12.43 at year end. The highest and lowest 
market values during the year were £15.25 and 
£10.54.
Sourcing shares
The Investment Association guidelines on 
sourcing shares have been followed and, in 
line with the scheme rules, the Company has 
not issued shares under all employee schemes 
which, when aggregated with awards under 
all of the Company’s other schemes, exceed 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital in 
any rolling ten year period. The Company has 
also not issued new shares under executive 
(discretionary) schemes which exceed 5% 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company in any rolling ten year period. 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 
AND SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
Executive Directors are required to accumulate 
minimum personal holdings in Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc shares amounting to a value of 
two times base salary. Executive Directors with 
less than six years’ service are required to hold 
a minimum of one times base salary. Newly 
appointed Executive Directors will be given up 
to three years to comply with this requirement. 
Ian Gorham currently owns shares outright, 
at a level exceeding his required shareholding 
as described above based on a share price 
of £12.43 (being the closing price on 30 June 
2016). Christopher Hill has a further three 
years to obtain a one times base salary 
shareholding. 
Current shareholdings are summarised in the 
following table:
Name of 
Director
Beneficially 
owned at 30 
June 2015
Beneficially 
owned at 30 
June 2016
Outstanding 
subject to 
continued 
employment
Outstanding 
subject to 
continued 
employment, 
arising from 
deferred bonus
Outstanding 
subject to 
continued 
employment, 
arising from 
recruitment 
award Non-
performance 
related awards 
granted in 
year
Outstanding 
LTIP awards 
with 
performance 
conditions
No of share 
options 
vested but 
unexercised 
at 30 June 
2016
No of share 
options 
exercised in 
the year
Shareholding 
guideline 
(multiple of 
base salary)
Shareholding 
as a multiple 
of base salary 
achieved at 
30 June 2016
Ian Gorham 332,628 332,628 5,674 68,595 - 165,000 - 52,441 Two times Over eight 
times
Christopher Hill -
-
1,750 - 39,300 50,000 - - One times -
Non-Executive Director Shares
Mike Evans 8,125
Christopher Barling -
Stephen Robertson 9,890
Shirley Garrood -
Jayne Styles -
Salary Annual bonus
Chief Executive % change 11% 32%
Employee % change 4% 19%
The table to the right shows, as at 30 June 
2016, the Hargreaves Lansdown shares held 
by the Non-Executive Directors:
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION
The table to the right shows the percentage 
change in remuneration of the Director 
undertaking the role of Chief Executive and the 
Company’s employees as a whole between the 
year ended 30 June 2015 and the year ended 
30 June 2016.
Note that the Chief Executive’s bonus in the 
two preceding years had changed by -10% and 
-13%. 
Benefits are provided on the same terms to 
Directors and all staff alike.
In determining Director’s pay, the Committee 
considers comparison with the remuneration 
of all staff. There has been no formal 
consultation with employees in determining 
policy, although a staff survey was held during 
the year. Note that the above figures show the 
difference in average pay for employees. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
75
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Peter 
Hargreaves
Peter 
Hargreaves
2
/ 
Ian Gorham
3
 
Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham
Total 
Remuneration
£405,917 £85,123/ 
£1,034,167
£1,640,895 £6,751,557 £10,608,359 £2,058,642
5
£2 ,070,861
Annual Bonus as 
a percentage of 
maximum
 (Nil) (£73,333)
1
 / 
(£666,667)
1
(£1,250,000)
1 
(£1,500,000)
1
60%
(£1,350,000)
52%
(£1,170,000)
6
78%
(£1,550,000) 
Shares vesting
4
 
as a percentage 
of maximum 
Nil Nil/ Nil Nil 100% 100% Nil Nil
1 
Prior to 2014, there was no individual cap on annual bonus payable, other than the overall bonus pool cap as a percentage of profit before tax. Bonus figures shown are gross of any sacrifice into 
pension and before any compulsory deferral. 
2 
Emoluments for Peter Hargreaves for 2011 are shown for the 2 months prior to date of his resignation from the role as CEO.
3
 Emoluments for Ian Gorham for 2011 are shown for the 10 months following his appointment to the Board as a director.
4
 Options vesting in 2014 and 2013 pre-dated the LTIP and therefore had no performance criteria.
5 
This figure was previously £1,224,715, which included an estimate of value for the 2015 vesting LTIP . This has been updated for the actual value received. 
6
 This figure includes £1,150,000 as shown in the single figure tables in addition to £20,000 in favour of making a higher pension contribution. 
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16
Total Dividend Paid 
£’m 
Profit Before 
Tax £’m
Staff Costs 
£’m
Total Dividend Declared 
(Pence per share)
2016 160.6 218.9 60.2 34.0
2015 155.7 199.0 53.1 33.0p
% Change +3% +10% +13% +3%
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN - HARGREAVES LANSDOWN AND FTSE 350 FINANCIAL 
SERVICES INDEX 
l	Hargreaves Lansdown    l	FTSE 350 Financial Services Index
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The graph shows the Company’s performance 
measured by Total Shareholder Return (TSR), 
which is the capital growth and dividends 
paid. This is compared with the performance 
of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index for 
the last seven years.
The graph shows the value of £100 invested 
in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares on 1 July 
2009 compared to the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 350 Financial Services Sector 
Index for each of our financial year ends to 
30 June 2016. We have chosen the FTSE 
350 Financial Services Index as we believe 
it is the most appropriate comparator for 
benchmarking our corporate performance over 
the seven year period.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON 
REMUNERATION
The table to the right shows the actual expen-
diture of the Group in terms of total employee 
remuneration pay, profit before tax, and total 
dividends for this and the previous year.
To aid comparison we have also detailed the 
percentage change between the years.
2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S TOTAL REMUNERATION
Outlined below is the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive from 2010 to 2016
The chart above shows the value  of £100 invested  in the company  on the 1 July 2009 compared with the value 
of £100 invested in the FTSE  350 Financial Services Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 June 2016. 
We have chosen the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index as we believe it is the most appropriate comparator for 
benchmarking our corporate performance over the seven year period. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
76
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS 
The company operates a SAYE share options 
scheme and Share Incentive Plan (SIP) on the 
same terms for all employees. All employees 
are encouraged to become shareholders, 
both through direct ownership or through 
participation in share schemes.
PENSION
No Directors or staff participate in a defined 
benefit pension scheme. The Group operates 
its own Group Self Invested Personal Pension 
(the “GSIPP”). The Company contributes 4% 
of base salary to the scheme which applies 
to Executive Directors and staff. Employees 
wishing to make personal contributions to 
the GSIPP can do so via ‘salary exchange’ 
or ‘bonus waiver’ ensuring that they benefit 
from the maximum, immediate relief from 
income tax and National Insurance. Staff are 
required to contribute 3%, with contribution 
levels increasing to 4% from October 2016 
and to 5% from 1 October 2017. Staff, Senior 
Management and Executive Directors may 
opt out of the scheme should they wish. 
Where an individual has reduced the level 
of their contribution to the GSIPP due to 
exceeding, or being due to exceed, the Lifetime 
Allowance, or has opted out where they have 
elected to protect their Lifetime Allowance, 
the Group will make an additional monthly 
payment equivalent to the employer’s pension 
contribution amount forsaken.
The Committee confirms that no excess 
retirement benefits have been paid to current 
or past Directors.
PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES
The Committee confirms that no amounts 
have been paid to third parties in respect of 
Directors’ services.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS 
(AUDITED)
The Committee confirms that no payments 
have been made to past Directors during the 
year, other than the pay-out of the 52,441 
LTIP shares previously disclosed in the 2015 
single figure table to Tracey Taylor. The 
expected value of this award was £281,000 
and the actual gain made was £372,000. The 
market value on exercise was £13.96 and the 
exercise price was £6.87.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE 
(AUDITED)
The Committee confirms that no payments 
for loss of office have been made to any 
Director during the year.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
Throughout the year, the Committee has 
appointed and been advised by Deloitte 
LLP , who are signatories to the Code of 
Conduct for the provision of independent 
remuneration advice of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group. Following a review of 
the advice provided, the Remuneration 
Committee are satisfied that the advice it has 
received was objective and independent. The 
fees payable to Deloitte for this advice were 
£35,000 plus VAT. Fees are determined at 
the outset of the year to cover the range of 
services it is anticipated the Remuneration 
Committee will require. If additional work 
is necessary, fees are agreed for these 
additional services. 
Other services provided to Hargreaves 
Lansdown by Deloitte LLP consisted of the 
secondment of Simon Cleveland, Interim CFO; 
assistance with project work; ICAAP training 
and support for the risk function.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS OF EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS IN THE YEAR
Neither Ian Gorham nor Christopher Hill 
currently holds any external Directorships. 
Statement of voting at the AGM
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE AGM
At the AGM held in 2015, votes cast by proxy 
and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ 
remuneration report were as follows:
Resolution Votes for including 
discretionary votes
% for Votes 
against
% against Total votes cast 
excluding votes 
withheld
Votes 
withheld
Total votes cast 
including votes 
withheld
Approve Director's 
Report on Remuneration 
(excluding Directors 
Remuneration Policy)
382,185,292 97.69% 9,050,213 2.31% 391,235,505 1,006,345 392,241,850
Resolution Votes for including 
discretionary votes
% for Votes 
against
% against Total votes cast 
excluding votes 
withheld
Votes 
withheld
Total votes cast 
including votes 
withheld
Approve Directors 
Remuneration Policy
379,027,684 98.4% 5,941,081 1.54% 384,968,765 84,379 385,053,144
At the AGM held in 2014 (the last time the Directors Remuneration Policy was subject to shareholder vote), the votes cast by proxy and at the 
meeting in respect of the Directors Remuneration Policy were as follows: HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
77
The Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for the framework or broad policy for the 
fair remuneration of the Executive Directors 
of the Company and its subsidiaries. It 
also has oversight of their performance 
management. The policy is determined with 
due regard to the interests of the Company 
and the shareholders. The Committee makes 
recommendations to the Board. No Director 
plays a part in any discussion about his or 
her own remuneration. The Remuneration 
Committee meets at least twice per year and 
is governed by formal Terms of Reference, 
which are reviewed annually. The Terms of 
Reference for the Remuneration Committee 
are available on the Group’s website.
The Remuneration Committee met seven 
times during this financial year. The 
Committee is chaired by Christopher Barling 
and its other members at 30 June 2016 were 
Mike Evans, Shirley Garrood and Stephen 
Robertson. None of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other than as 
shareholders), conflicts of interests arising 
from cross-directorships or day-to-day 
involvement in running the business.
The Committee’s purpose is to:
• determine and recommend to the Board 
the remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors of the Company and of the 
subsidiary companies;
• ensure the level and structure of 
remuneration is designed to attract, retain, 
and motivate the Executive Directors 
needed to run the Company and the 
Group; and 
• monitor the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management.
The performance measurement of the 
Directors and key members of senior 
management and the determination 
of their annual remuneration packages 
are undertaken by the Committee. 
The Committee also ensures that the 
remuneration relationship between the 
Directors and senior employees of the 
Company is appropriate and that the 
remuneration policy complies with the 
FCA Remuneration Code. Any exceptional 
remuneration arrangements for senior 
employees are advised to the Committee.
RESPONSIBILITY
The Board remains ultimately accountable for 
executive remuneration but has delegated 
this responsibility to the Remuneration 
Committee. The Committee’s full terms of 
reference are available on the Company’s 
website.
In determining the Directors’ remuneration 
and the remuneration structure for the 
current financial year, the Committee 
consulted Ian Gorham about its proposals, 
although no Director was involved 
in discussions regarding their own 
remuneration.
The chart below provides an illustration 
of the approximate percentage of time 
spent by the Committee on various 
matters during 2015/16.
n	 31%  Share incentive
n	 17%  Regulation and remuneration  
  structure
n	 13%  Executive Pay (excluding L TIP)
n	 13%  MRT s & FCA policy statement
n	 10%  Remuneration report
n	 6%   Contr acts
n	 6%   Other
n	 4%   Investor feedback
ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended
Chairman
Christopher Barling 7 7
Members
Mike Evans 7 7
Shirley Garrood 7 7
Stephen Robertson 6 5
Dharmash Mistry 1 1
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
ALLOCATION OF TIME HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
78
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY – 
FOR INFORMATION ONLY
PREAMBLE
This Policy took effect immediately following 
the AGM of 24 October 2014. It is the 
intention of the Committee that this Policy 
will be in effect for three years from the date 
of approval. The Committee has reviewed 
the policy and intends to operate it in the 
future with the following tightening of 
policy, which are explained in detail in the 
Remuneration Report:
• The cap on Directors Annual Performance 
Bonus has been constrained to four times 
base salary.
• The special arrangements for the 
founding Executive Director will not be 
applied as Peter Hargreaves has stepped 
down from the Board.
• Provision for clawback has been applied 
to variable remuneration, and will 
continue in the future.
• No LTIP will be granted for the 2017 
performance year.
• 40% of the bonus payable at the end 
of the 2017 performance year will 
be deferred entirely into Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc shares with no dividend 
entitlement during the deferral period. 
These deferred shares will be subject to 
malus.
POLICY
The Company’s Policy is designed such 
that each component of remuneration 
works in unison with the others to form an 
overall package which will attract, retain 
and motivate individuals of the calibre 
required to run a group of the scale and 
complexity of Hargreaves Lansdown. For 
Executive Directors, packages are provided 
which are weighted towards performance 
with measures which reflect individual and 
corporate performance over a one and three 
year time horizon.
The Policy is divided into separate sections 
for Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and Chairman is set by the Committee 
under delegated powers from the Board. 
The Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 
is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive. 
No Director plays a role in setting their own 
remuneration.
Component / Purpose 
and link to strategy
Operation and performance measures Maximum Opportunity
Base Salary 
To attract and retain 
high performing 
individuals, considering 
both the market 
value of the position 
and the individual’s 
skills, experience and 
performance.
The Committee will review each Director’s Base Salary annually and will consider each 
individual’s performance and progress taking into account the scope and nature of their 
role, their ability and their experience. 
The Base Salary will also be set with reference to mid-market levels and to remuneration 
within the Group as well as appropriate comparator companies. 
Salary increases are usually effective from 1 July.
No prescribed maximum annual 
increase.
Factors considered when determining 
any increase to Base Salary will 
include individual performance and 
any changes in roles or responsibilities. 
The Committee will also consider 
increases across the wider senior 
management team.
Annual Performance 
Bonus
To reward achievement 
of the Group’s business 
plan, key performance 
indicators and the 
personal contribution 
of Directors. To align 
the interests of 
Directors with those of 
shareholders.
The level of Performance Bonus payable is linked to key financial metrics as well as 
individual, departmental and corporate performance against objectives.
Bonus awards to Directors are made from the Directors’ annual performance aggregate bonus 
pool (which also provides for bonuses for the wider senior management team). The size of the 
aggregate bonus pool is established taking account of the Group’s key performance indicators 
for the relevant financial year such as underlying profit before tax, operating margin, underlying 
earnings per share, quality of customer service provided, corporate governance, compliance 
with regulatory requirements and risk management along with making some allowance 
for impacts on profit outside of management’s control such as market and interest rate 
movements. The Committee considers each individual Director’s performance against his or her 
personal objectives to ensure that awards are made where performance so merits.
30% of the Annual Performance Bonus is subject to compulsory deferral for a period of three 
years. It may be deferred into deferred share awards and / or deferred cash awards at each 
Director’s discretion, subject to each Director maintaining the required minimum shareholding. 
Dividend alternatives will accrue on deferred share awards and will be paid at the time of 
vesting.
To the extent that the minimum shareholding is not yet held, the Director must defer into 
share awards.
At the discretion of the Committee, the immediately payable element of the Annual 
Performance Bonus may be paid as cash and/or as an additional employer pension 
contribution.
Any unvested deferred awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism
The aggregate bonus pool is 
capped at 5% of Profit Before Tax 
for that year. The maximum bonus 
opportunity for Directors under the 
Policy is five times base salary for 
the reward period.
A) POLICY APPLYING TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
79
Long Term Incentive 
Plan 
To align the interests 
of Directors with those 
of shareholders and to 
reward growth of the 
long-term value of the 
business.
Annual awards of market value share options will vest after 3 years subject to continuing 
employment and to the extent that performance tests are met over the 3 year performance 
period. The awards are subject to up to three performance conditions including one profit 
related and up to two business performance indicators.
In respect of each performance condition, which are set by the Committee prior to the grant 
of the award, performance below the minimum threshold results in zero vesting. Vesting 
of each performance condition starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance 
between the minimum and maximum targets.
Any unvested awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
The maximum award each year 
under the Policy is two and a half 
times base salary.
Shareholding 
Guideline 
To align the interests 
of management and 
shareholders in the 
success of the Group.
Directors have six years from appointment to achieve a shareholding with a minimum value 
of two times base salary with a minimum goal of one times after three years assessed on 30 
June of each year.
Not applicable.
Pension 
To provide adequate 
pension saving 
arrangements for 
Directors and staff.
Pension provision is provided in line with the pension provision for all staff.  
Any changes made to the staff arrangements will be carried across to the Directors.
The Committee may amend the form of any Director’s pension arrangements in response to 
changing pension legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not 
increase the cost to the Company of a Director’s pension provision by any greater percentage 
than the increase to the provision for all other staff.
All staff and Directors may waive an element of their Annual Performance Bonus in return for 
a corresponding employer’s contribution into their pension.
The Committee reserves the right to pay a cash allowance in place of an employer pension 
contribution where a Director has reached the Lifetime Allowance.
Current policy for all staff pensions 
is defined contribution with 
an employer contribution of a 
maximum of 4% of base salary.  
Any contribution paid as a result 
of waiver of the cash element of 
an Annual Performance Bonus will 
not be counted towards the 4% 
maximum.
Benefits 
An ‘across the board’ 
benefits package is 
available to both staff 
and Directors alike.
All eligible staff and Directors may take up a range of benefits.
Where costs are necessarily incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of the Company, 
those costs will be reimbursed in full e.g. travel, accommodation, subsistence, relocation, and 
any tax and social costs arising.
Provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional holiday, childcare 
vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary sacrifice mechanism.
Group life insurance and Group PHI is provided to all staff with greater than six months 
continuous service.
All eligible staff (as defined by the scheme rules and which includes Executive Directors) may 
participate in the Save As You Earn scheme or Share Incentive Plan. 
Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
The maximum value of benefits will 
depend on the cost of the provision 
of those benefits.
There are a number of variables 
and unknowns impacting the 
maximum payable in the event of 
relocation; however, the Committee 
would pay no more than is 
necessary in such situations. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
80
B) SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR FOUNDING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
The cap on annual performance bonus in relation to basic salary will not apply to Peter Hargreaves due to the nominal value of his base salary, 
although the absolute value of his bonus in any year will not exceed that of the Chief Executive. Mr Hargreaves is also not subject to the 
compulsory deferral of any element of his annual performance bonus.
C) POLICY APPLYING TO THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Component / Purpose Operation
Basic fee
To attract and retain high performing individuals, 
considering both the market value of the position and 
the individual’s skills, experience and performance.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ basic fees are reviewed annually by those responsible 
as outlined earlier.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 July.
The fee levels are set taking into account market data for comparable positions taking account of the 
time commitment required for the role. 
All Non-Executive Director’s fees including those below are paid in cash, on a quarterly basis.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension, or to participate in any Group 
employee share plan.
Committee Chairman fees 
To recognise the additional time commitment and 
responsibility involved in chairing a Committee of the 
Board.
Each Non-Executive Director receives an additional fee for each Committee for which they are 
Chairman.
The Committee Chairman fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in chairing a Committee 
of the Board, including time spent in preparation and liaising with management, and the time spent 
attending and preparing for a Committee of the Board.
Senior Independent Director (SID) fee 
To recognise the additional time commitment and 
responsibility involved holding the role of the SID.
The SID receives an additional fee for his role.
The fee reflects the additional time and responsibility in fulfilling the role of Senior Independent 
Director.
Benefits and Expenses 
To appropriately reimburse the Chairman and Non-
Executive Director for out of pocket expenses incurred 
in the fulfilment of their responsibilities and any tax and 
social costs arising.
Expenses may be claimed by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in line with the Company’s 
expenses policy.
Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
Reduced share dealing fees, in line with those charged for all other employees.
No other benefits are made available to Non-Executive Directors.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF 
OFFICE PAYMENTS
All Executive Directors have a service 
contract and the Non-Executive Directors are 
contracted under a letter of appointment. 
Both will reflect the approved policy in force 
at the time of appointment. The service 
contracts and the letters of appointment for 
all Directors in post are available for viewing 
(on the giving of reasonable notice) at our 
registered office during normal business 
hours and both prior to and at the Annual 
General Meeting. Under the terms of our 
Articles of Association, all Directors are 
subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Our policy is that service contracts do 
not have a specific duration but may be 
terminated with 12 months’ notice from the 
Company or the Executive Director.
The service contracts contain no provision 
for liquidated damages for compensation 
on termination, except for those set out in 
the table following. The service agreements 
contain provisions for payment in lieu of 
notice in respect of base salary and pension 
contributions but these are at the Company’s 
sole discretion.
The Committee has a policy framework 
for payments for loss of office by an 
Executive Director, both in relation to the 
service contract and incentive pay, which 
is summarised in the following table. The 
approach of the Company on any termination 
is to consider all relevant circumstances, 
including the recent performance of the 
Executive Director, and to act in accordance 
with any relevant rules or contractual 
provisions.
The maximum aggregate remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set in accordance with the Articles of Association. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
81
PROVISIONS ON A TAKEOVER AND OTHER 
CORPORATE EVENTS
In the event of a takeover or other corporate 
event, the Committee shall determine the 
amount (if any) of any bonus payable taking 
into account any applicable performance 
targets that have been achieved and any such 
factors as it considers appropriate given the 
curtailed performance period.
Deferred bonus awards and outstanding 
LTIP awards will vest at that time subject to 
satisfaction of the applicable performance 
conditions and pro-rated to reflect the length 
of the performance period which has been 
worked (with the Committee having discretion 
not to pro-rate or to reduce the pro-rate if it 
considers it appropriate to do so). Alternatively 
the Committee may determine with the 
agreement of the acquiring company that 
awards may be exchanged for equivalent 
awards in another company.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
The Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ 
(NEDs) letters of appointment cover the 
terms of their appointment, including the time 
commitment expected. Each appointment is 
for an initial fixed term of three years from 
the commencement date subject to election 
by shareholders at the first Annual General 
Meeting following their appointment and 
annual re-election thereafter.
Either party may terminate the appointment 
upon three calendar months written notice 
and the Company may do so with immediate 
effect subject to a payment in lieu of notice. 
Should termination arise as a result of a 
resolution of shareholders in general meeting, 
or as a result of a failure to be re-appointed 
by the shareholders, NEDs will not be entitled 
to receive any fees in respect of any period 
after the termination date. No compensation 
is payable on termination, other than for 
accrued fees and expenses.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT 
REMUNERATION
The Committee will set a remuneration 
package for new Executive Directors 
determining the individual elements of the 
package and the total package taking account 
of the skills and experience of the candidate, 
the market rate, and remuneration levels 
across the Group, respecting maximum levels 
for variable pay referred to in the appropriate 
policy table.  
           
Additional cash and/or share based awards 
on a one-off basis may be made as deemed 
appropriate by the Committee if the 
circumstances require taking into account pay 
or benefits forfeited by a Director on leaving 
a previous employer. The Committee has 
the discretion to make such awards under 
the LTIP and in excess of the LTIP salary 
limit or as permitted under Rule 9.4.2 of the 
Listing Rules (which allows companies to 
make one off share awards in exceptional 
circumstances, including recruitment). Such 
awards will, as far as possible, maintain 
consistency with the awards forfeited in 
terms of type of reward (shares or cash), 
expected value, time horizons and whether 
they were subject to performance criteria. 
Other payments may be made for relocation 
expenses, recruitment from abroad, legal 
costs and other costs or benefits forfeited by 
an individual being recruited. None of these 
payments made on new appointments will be 
Nature of termination: By Executive 
Director or Company 
giving notice 
(excluding special 
circumstances).
By Company 
summarily.
Good leaver: leaving by reason of death, ill health, injury or disability, 
redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the Committee, the sale 
of employing business or company, or other special circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee. 
Base salary, pension 
and benefits
Paid until 
employment ceases.
Paid until 
employment ceases.
Paid until employment ceases or for notice period (subject to mitigation) 
depending on the reason for cessation. 
Discretion for Company to pay salary, pension and benefits in a single 
payment or in monthly instalments. 
Annual bonus No entitlement to 
annual bonus for that 
financial year.
No entitlement to 
annual bonus for that 
financial year.
Cessation during the financial year or after the financial year end, but 
before payment date, may result in bonus being payable subject to 
performance (pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked 
unless the Committee determines otherwise).
Deferred bonus award Deferred bonus 
awards lapse when 
employment ceases.
Deferred bonus 
awards lapse when 
employment ceases.
Vested unexercised, and unvested deferred bonus awards, may vest and 
be exercised in accordance with normal terms. 
Committee has discretion to determine awards which vest when 
employment ceases.
LTIP awards Vested unexercised, 
and unvested 
long-term incentive 
awards lapse when 
employment ceases.
Vested unexercised, 
and unvested 
long-term incentive 
awards lapse when 
employment ceases.
Awards vest in accordance with original terms or Committee may 
determine awards to vest early subject to performance at the date when 
employment ceases. In either case Committee will pro-rate award to 
reflect performance period that has been worked, except in the case of 
serious ill health or death when no pro-rating will apply.
Other payments None. None. Possible disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement services and 
the cost of a settlement agreement. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
82
deemed to be taken from the bonus pool.
 
On the appointment of a new Chairman 
or Non-Executive Director, the Committee 
will set the fee level consistent with the 
approved policy at the time of appointment 
having due regard to remuneration paid for 
comparable positions taking account of the 
time commitment required for the role.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS
For the avoidance of doubt, this Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy includes authority 
for the Group to honour any commitments 
entered into before the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy came into effect.
CHANGES IN LEGISLATION OR 
REGULATION
Authority is given for the Group to comply 
with all prevailing legislation and statutory 
regulation both current and future, making 
the minimum changes to policy in order to 
so comply. 
PAY MODELLING AND PERFORMANCE 
MEASURE SELECTION
The Committee will disclose each year 
in the Group’s Annual Report a bar chart 
that models the potential remuneration 
for each of the Executive Directors for 
the forthcoming year using a range of 
assumptions. The chart will show the 
potential value of the current Executive 
Directors’ remuneration for the forthcoming 
year for three scenarios; ‘minimum’, 
‘maximum’ and ‘middle scenario’:
• The minimum amount represents 
the unconditional components of the 
remuneration package: salary, pension 
and employee benefits. 
• The mid-point amount is the amount the 
Executive Director will receive if they 
attain at least half of their objectives for 
the period. It will include both fixed and 
variable components of remuneration. 
The variable will reflect performance 
achieved during the year. 
• The maximum level is the maximum 
amount of remuneration each Executive 
Director can be awarded in the year. The 
maximum is subject to the remuneration 
caps that have been established for 
each component. 
The bar chart uses the maximum share 
price growth assumption of 30% growth 
over a three year period for the calculation 
of the potential value of the LTIP award. 
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER 
EMPLOYEES
All employees across the Group are subject 
to the same process in respect of annual 
salary reviews. Consideration is given to the 
scope of each role, the level of experience, 
responsibility, progress in role, and pay 
levels for similar roles in comparable 
companies. The performance and potential 
of the individual is also considered.
All permanent employees are considered 
for an annual performance bonus with 
similar metrics to those used for the 
Executive Directors. All eligible employees 
(under the rules of the scheme) may also 
participate in the Group’s Save As You Earn 
and Share Incentive Plans and senior staff 
may also be awarded share options under 
the Group’s Company Share Option Plan or 
Executive Share Option Plan where they 
have displayed exceptional performance.
EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS
The Company recognises that external 
Non-Executive Directorships are beneficial 
to both the Director and the Company and 
that its Executive Directors may be invited 
to become Non-Executive Directors of other 
companies. Such non-executive duties 
can broaden experience and knowledge 
which can benefit the Company. Subject to 
approval by the Board, Executive Directors 
are allowed to accept a maximum of two 
non-executive appointments and retain the 
fees received, provided that appointments 
are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Ian Gorham
 £500,000
 £1,000,000
£0
 £1,500,000
 £2,000,000
 £2,500,000
 £3,000,000
 £3,500,000
Minimum Mid Maximum
Christopher Hill
100% 41% 21% 
59% 
79%
 £500,000
 £1,000,000
£0
 £1,500,000
 £2,000,000
 £2,500,000
 £3,000,000
 £3,500,000
Minimum Mid Maximum
Ian Gorham
100% 41% 21% 
59% 
79%
Ian Gorham
 £500,000
 £1,000,000
£0
 £1,500,000
 £2,000,000
 £2,500,000
 £3,000,000
 £3,500,000
Minimum Mid Maximum
Christopher Hill
100% 41% 21% 
59% 
79%
 £500,000
 £1,000,000
£0
 £1,500,000
 £2,000,000
 £2,500,000
 £3,000,000
 £3,500,000
Minimum Mid Maximum
Ian Gorham
100% 41% 21% 
59% 
79%
l	LTIP     l	Annual bonus     l	Fixed
l	LTIP     l	Annual bonus     l	Fixed
ILLUSTRATION OF 2017 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
83
CONSULTATION WITH EMPLOYEES
Whilst the Committee does not consult 
directly with employees in respect of the 
Directors’ remuneration, it does consider 
the wider salary increase, remuneration 
arrangements and employment conditions 
across the wider employee population when 
setting the remuneration policy for Directors.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Committee recognises that Director 
remuneration is an area of particular interest 
to our shareholders and in setting and 
considering changes to remuneration it is 
critical that we listen to and take into account 
their views. 
The Committee considers shareholder 
feedback received in relation to the AGM 
each year at its first meeting following the 
AGM. This feedback, as well as any additional 
feedback received during any other meetings 
with shareholders, is then considered as 
part of the Company’s annual review of 
the remuneration policy. We also regularly 
engage with our largest shareholders to 
ensure we understand the range of views 
which exist on remuneration issues. When 
any material changes are made to the 
Policy, the Committee will discuss these 
in advance with our major shareholders 
wherever practical. The Committee will also 
consult with professional advisors to ensure 
we consider current market and industry 
practices, where appropriate. 
APPROVAL
The Director’s Remuneration Report including 
Policy, Annual Report and Chairman’s 
Statement have been approved by the Board 
of Directors and signed on its behalf.
Christopher D. Barling
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6 September 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
84
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
I am pleased to present the Committee’s 
report for 2016. Over the period we have 
completed the appointment process for our 
new Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Christopher 
Hill, and our latest Non-Executive Director, 
Jayne Styles. We reviewed the size and 
composition of the Board and we have 
improved the quality of our succession 
planning and endorsed the leadership and 
development plans.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for regularly reviewing the structure, size 
and composition of the Board, with due 
regard to skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity, making recommendations to the 
Board as to any changes. The Committee 
leads the process for Board appointments, 
re-election and succession of Directors and 
the Chairman. It is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board concerning 
the composition and skills of the Board 
including proposed appointees to the Board 
and the membership of the Committees.  
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board. The process involves 
the Nomination Committee interviewing 
suitable candidates who are proposed by 
existing Board members, by an external 
search company, or via searches performed 
by the Company itself. Consideration will 
be given to ensure appointees have enough 
time available to devote to the role and 
that the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board will be maintained. 
When the Committee has found a suitable 
candidate, the Chairman of the Committee 
will make a proposal to the whole Board and 
the appointment is the responsibility of the 
whole Board following recommendation from 
the Committee. 
The Committee is responsible for the 
succession planning for the whole Board and 
senior executives, taking into account the 
challenges and opportunities facing the Group 
and the future skills and expertise needed 
on the Board. It is also required to review the 
leadership and development needs of the 
organisation to allow it to compete effectively 
in its market. 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP 
AND ATTENDANCE
The Nomination Committee meets at least 
twice a year but more frequently when 
required, and met four times during this 
financial year. The Committee is chaired by 
Mike Evans and its other members at 30 
June 2016 were Christopher Barling, Shirley 
Garrood, Stephen Robertson and Jayne 
Styles. The Chief Executive and the Chief 
People Officer are routinely invited to attend 
meetings as required.
DIVERSITY
When assessing new appointments to our 
Board, we review carefully the combined 
skills and experience of the existing Board 
members to determine what characteristics 
we are looking for from a new Director. 
Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown 
Board must have the skills, experience and 
character that will enable each Director to 
contribute both individually, and as part of 
the team, to the effectiveness of the Board 
and the success of the Company. We believe 
that diversity amongst Board members 
is of great value but that diversity is a far 
wider subject than just gender. We will give 
careful consideration to issues of overall 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Meetings attended
Chairman
Mike Evans 3 3
Members
Chris Barling 3 3
Shirley Garrood 3 3
Stephen Robertson 3 3
Jayne Styles (joined Committee as member Oct 15) 1 1
Dharmash Mistry (resigned, last meeting Aug 15) 0 0 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
85
Board balance and diversity in making new 
appointments to the Board. 
As at 30 June 2016, the Board numbers 
seven in total, of which two are executive 
and five independent (including the 
Chairman). Female Directors constitute 
29% of the Board and 0% of the Executive 
Committee. Subject to the requirements set 
out above, Hargreaves Lansdown will aim 
to maintain female representation on the 
Board at least at the current level and give 
due consideration to increasing the level if 
appropriate candidates are available when 
Board vacancies arise. We are committed to 
maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels 
across the Company and more information 
on how we do this can be found in the Our 
People section on page 44. A copy of our full 
statement on Board Diversity can be found 
on www.hl.co.uk.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
During the year the Committee completed the 
approval and appointment process of our new 
CFO Christopher Hill, the search for which 
was led by Oryx Executive Search, a search 
company which has no other connection with 
the Company. The Committee also completed 
the approval and appointment process of 
our latest Non-Executive Director, Jayne 
Styles, and recommended her appointment 
as Chair of the Investment Committee. 
This search was internally led, utilising the 
Group’s extensive links with the investment 
community to generate potential candidates.
Following the externally facilitated Board 
Effectiveness review in 2015, in July 2015 
the Committee considered in depth the 
structure, size, composition and diversity of 
the Board and identified several specific areas 
for consideration when the need arises to 
broaden the non-executive side of the Board.
 
In May 2016, the Committee received 
and discussed in depth a detailed review 
of succession planning for the Executive 
Directors and senior management within 
the Group. It also received and endorsed 
the leadership and development curriculum 
for the senior team. In the same meeting, 
the Committee discussed the possible 
options for succession planning for the 
Chairman. Subsequent to their discussions, 
the Committee commissioned external 
consultants to undertake psychometric 
profiles of potential candidates for 
appointment to the Executive Committee and 
for Chief Executive succession.
Signed on behalf of the Nomination 
Committee.
Mike Evans
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
6 September 2016 
The chart below provides an illustration 
of the approximate percentage of time 
spent by the Committee on various 
matters during 2015/16.
n	 37%  Succession planning
n	 33%  Leadership and   
  developement
n	 12%  Board needs
n	 12%  Non-Exec recruitment
n	 3%   Exec recruitment
n	 3%   Div ersity
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
ALLOCATION OF TIME  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
86
RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
On behalf of the Board Risk Committee I am 
pleased to present the Committee’s report for 
2016. Over the period we have had a number 
of challenging and valuable discussions in the 
Committee: the impacts of the EU referendum, 
the annual review and approval of the Risk 
Appetite statements, the Hargreaves Lansdown 
Change Programme, the continual evolution of 
our fraud and cyber control environment and 
the rolling consideration of the risk profile. The 
Risk Committee approved and recommended 
the Hargreaves Lansdown Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for the 
Board approval on 24th February 2016.
ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
The Board Risk Committee is a forward 
looking committee of the Board of Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc seeking to anticipate potential 
issues by assessing known or foreseeable risks 
and thereby enabling Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc and its subsidiaries to take action to avoid 
or mitigate the impact of those issues.
The responsibilities of the Risk Committee are 
set out in its Terms of Reference, which are 
designed to assist the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities:
• advising the Board on the Group’s overall 
risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk 
strategy, taking into account the current 
and prospective macroeconomic and 
financial environment;
• overseeing and advising the Board on the 
current risk exposures of the Company 
and future risk strategy;
• advising the Board on the amount of 
surplus regulatory capital that should be 
held commensurate with the Group’s risk 
profile and regulatory obligations;
• overseeing the effectiveness of the risk 
management procedures, including AIFMD 
and the principal risks and uncertainties 
relating to the Group and the steps being 
taken to mitigate them;
• reviewing and recommending to the Board 
the Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP); 
• identifying and assessing future potential 
risks which, by virtue of their unfamiliarity, 
uncertainty and deemed low probability 
may not have been factored adequately 
into review elsewhere within the Group and
• continuously monitor the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company and Group’s 
internal controls understanding how these 
affect the risk profile of the business.
The Risk Committee reports its findings to 
the Board, identifies matters for which action 
or improvement is needed, and recommends 
appropriate steps. However, the Board retains 
ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the overall risk appetite of the 
business.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee will be 
available at the Annual General Meeting to 
answer any questions about the work of the 
Committee.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP 
AND ATTENDANCE
The Risk Committee meets at least four times 
each year but more frequently when required, 
and met five times during this financial year. 
The attendance by each director is set out 
in the table below. The Director of Risk and 
Compliance, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Information 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Commercial 
Director Chief Executive and Head of Internal 
Audit are routinely invited to attend meetings, 
although the Committee reserves the right to 
request any of these individuals to withdraw. 
In between the formal schedule of meetings, the 
Committee Chairman keeps in regular contact 
with the Chief Executive, Director of Risk and 
Compliance, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The members of the Risk Committee at 30 June 
2016 and attendance at the five Committees 
held during the 12 month period are shown in 
the table below.
The Committee membership constitutes 
independent non-executive directors and a 
non-executive Chairman. The biographies of 
Committee members can be found on page 50 
of the Annual Report.
On an on-going basis, membership of the 
Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of 
the Committee and any recommendations for 
new appointments are made to the Nomina-
tion Committee for onward recommendation 
to the Board. Appointments are for a period 
of three years and are extendable for further 
periods of up to three years provided the di-
rector still meets the criteria for membership 
of the Committee.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR 
In discharging its responsibilities the Risk
Committee concentrated on the following areas:
1. Development and enhancement of the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Risk framework
During the period the Risk Committee has 
overseen a review and enhancement of 
the Hargreaves Lansdown Risk framework. 
Each element of the model has been 
assessed, challenged and where appropriate 
improvements identified and delivered.
As a result of this review key areas have 
been further developed and approved by the 
Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended
Chairman
Mike Evans 5 5
Members
Shirley Garrood 5 5
Stephen Robertson 5 5
Chris Barling 5 5
Jayne Styles (joined Committee 
as member Oct 15)
3 
(plus one as an observer)
3 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
87
Committee, in particular the ‘Risk Appetite 
model’ and the structure within which the 
risk registers are managed and have been 
developed. The Risk Committee approved the 
refreshed Group Risk Appetite Statements in 
January 2016 and a fresh Risk Universe was 
approved in April 2016.
2. Risk Management MI and risk profile 
discussions
The Committee has received reports from 
the Risk department at each Committee 
meeting as well as ad hoc reports from other 
areas of the business on request. Regular 
topics of discussion have included dealing 
statistics, conduct risk (through the conduct 
risk key risk indicators), incident reports with 
associated learnings and the Departmental 
risks. The Committee has challenged the 
business where trends and data suggest further 
action is required. The Committee believes 
the management of the risk profile is given 
sufficient consideration and that necessary 
action has been taken with appropriate 
governance and oversight.
3. Emerging risks
Emerging risk has been an agenda item at each 
Risk Committee during the period. Papers have 
been submitted by the Executive covering 
a variety of emerging risks, these matters 
have been discussed and challenged and the 
Committee has provided considered guidance 
on a variety of external emerging risks. Topics 
which have been discussed by the Committee 
include a variety of systemic, regulatory, 
political, technological and internal change risks.
4. Fraud & Cyber risk
The Risk Committee is aware of the industry 
exposure to both fraud and cyber risk, and 
this is reflected in the frequency with which 
it is discussed at the Committee. During the 
period a new Chief Information Security Officer 
was recruited and the Fraud team became 
part of the Compliance and Risk department. 
The Committee acknowledged and supported 
the approval by the Executive Committee of 
a ‘Cyber Security Strategy’. The strategy is 
focused on the concept of ‘Protect, Detect, 
Respond and Recover’ and as such covers 
lifecycle information, physical and personnel 
security, fraud monitoring as well as elements 
of service continuity/disaster recovery. 
5. Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP)
The Committee approved and recommended 
for Board approval the Hargreaves Lansdown 
ICAAP on 24 February 2016. Understanding 
of the ICAAP and using it as an element of 
risk management challenge to the business is 
integral to the Committee, with specific agenda 
items dedicated to the constituent elements 
including reverse stress testing, stress and 
scenarios and wind down. 
6. Project risks
The Risk Committee has maintained 
oversight of the Group’s change programme 
throughout the period, with updates provided 
to the Committee by the Change team for 
consideration and challenge. The Committee 
received sufficient assurance to be confident 
that the change agenda was being managed 
within agreed appetite and capital adequacy 
levels. 
7. Risk Framework & Governance
The Committee reviewed a report from 
the Chief Risk Officer regarding the design 
and effectiveness of the risk management 
framework, including the introduction of a new 
Executive Risk Committee. The Executive Risk 
Committee is chaired by the Group Director of 
Risk & Compliance. Its role is to oversee the 
day to day risk management across the Group 
as set out on page 56. It meets monthly with 
attendance from members of the Executive 
Committee supported by Senior Management 
and Subject Matter Experts. The Board Risk 
Committee recommended the report to the 
Audit Committee as the basis for its approval 
of the businesses management of risk and the 
effectiveness of the control environment.
8. Remuneration schemes Governance
The Committee provided support and input to 
the Remuneration Committee by reviewing a 
report from the Chief Risk Officer covering the 
appropriateness of the remuneration schemes 
upon the Group’s risk profile.
9. Risk Effectiveness
During the year, the Committee has 
overseen a range of improvements in both 
the capacity of the Risk Team, including the 
appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer, and 
the completeness of the framework. These 
measures have all increased the effectiveness 
of Risk Management. The Chairman of the 
Risk Committee has been in regular contact 
with the Head of Internal Audit throughout the 
year. Having conducted a review of the Risk 
department the Committee is happy with both 
its resources and its future development plans. 
At its meeting in June 2016, the Committee 
received and approved the Annual Report on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management process.
Signed on behalf of the Risk Committee
Mike Evans
Chairman of the Risk Committee
6 September 2016
The chart below provides an illustration 
of the approximate percentage of time 
spent by the Committee on various 
matters during 2015/16.
n	 14%   Risk Framework
n	 12%   Business Model Risks
n	 14%   Emerging Risks
n	 10%   Fraud & Cyber Risk
n	 9%    Capital Adequacy
n	 7%    Project Risks
n	 5%    AML/MLRO Reports
n	 7%    Remuneration
n	 22%   Other
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE 
ALLOCATION OF TIME HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
88
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT 
The Directors present their report on 
the affairs of the Group and the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the 
Group for the year ended 30 June 2016. 
Accompanying this Directors’ Report are 
the Strategic Report, Corporate Governance 
Report, Audit Committee Report and 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. These 
reports form part of the Annual Report.
A review of the business and its future 
development is set out in the Strategic 
Report. A description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties is given on page 36 of the 
Strategic Report.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The review of the business and its strategic 
priorities in the Annual Report has been 
prepared solely to provide additional 
information to shareholders to assess the 
Group’s strategies and the potential for 
these strategies to succeed. It should not be 
relied on by any other party for any other 
purpose. The review contains forward looking 
statements which are made by the Directors 
in good faith based on information available 
to them up to the time of the approval 
of these reports and should be treated 
with caution due to inherent uncertainties 
including both economic and business risk 
factors associated with such statements. 
The Directors, in preparing this Strategic 
Report, have complied with Section 417 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results of the Group are set out in detail 
on page 100. The Company paid a final 
dividend and an interim dividend during the 
period, as detailed in Note 10 to the financial 
statements. A second interim (final) dividend 
of 16.30 pence per ordinary share and a 
special dividend of 9.90 pence per ordinary 
share were declared after the balance sheet 
date and will be payable on 28 September 
2016 to shareholders on the register at close 
of business on 16 September 2016. Details of 
dividend waivers are also detailed in Note 10.
EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE
Details of those important events affecting 
the Group which have occurred since the end 
of the financial year are set out in Note 26 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES
Our disclosures relating to the employment 
of disabled persons, the number of women 
in senior management roles, employee 
engagement and policies are included in “Our 
People” on pages 44 to 45.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Information about the Company’s approach to 
the environment and sustainability including 
details of our greenhouse gas emissions are 
set out on pages 40 to 43.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Details of the Group’s policy on risk 
management has been made in Note 28 to 
the consolidated financial statements and 
relate to various financial instruments and the 
exposure of the Group to financial, market, 
liquidity and credit risk.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Report found 
on pages 52 to 59 and, together with this 
report of which it forms part, fulfills the 
requirements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement for the purpose of the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (DTR).
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s shares are listed on the of 
the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s 
authorised and issued share capital during 
the year and as at 30 June 2016 is shown 
in note 22. The ordinary shares rank pari 
passu in all respects. Save as agreed at the 
Annual General Meeting of the shareholders, 
the ordinary shares have pre-emption rights 
in respect of any future issues of ordinary 
shares to the extent conferred by Section 561 
of the Companies Act 2006. 
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH 
‘INFORMATION RIGHTS’
Beneficial owners of shares who have been 
nominated by the registered holder of those 
shares to receive information rights under 
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are 
Number and % of 
Ordinary Shares at 30 
June 2016 
Number and % of 
Ordinary Shares 
at 30 June 2015
Non-Executive Directors
Christopher Barling - -
Mike Evans 8,125 (<0.01%) 8,125 (<0.01%)
Stephen Robertson 9,890 (<0.01%) 9,890 (<0.01%)
Shirley Garrood - -
Jayne Styles - -
Executive Directors
Ian Gorham 332,628 (0.07%) 332,628 (0.07%)
Christopher Hill - -
Total 350,643 (0.07%) 350,643 (0.07%) HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
89
required to direct all communications to the 
registered holder of their shares rather than 
to the Company’s registrar, Equiniti Registrars, 
or to the Group directly.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors who held office during the 
year and at 30 June 2016 had  interests 
(including beneficial interests) in the shares 
of the Company as shown in the table 
opposite. These interests are exclusive of 
any interests under share options or awards, 
details of which are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
During the period covered by this report, no 
Director had any material interest in a contract 
to which the Company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings was a party other than their own 
service contract, requiring disclosure under 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
except in respect of the rental of the office 
premises at Kendal House as disclosed in note 
27 to the financial statements. 
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
As permitted by the Articles of Association, 
the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity 
which is a qualifying third party indemnity 
provision as defined by Section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was 
introduced in August 2014 and is currently in 
force. The Company also purchased and main-
tained throughout the financial year directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance cover in respect 
of itself and its Directors to guard against 
against liability which may be incurred acting 
as Directors and officers. Cover was increased 
from £20 million to £40 million during the year 
and this cover remains in force at the date of 
this report. 
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at the date of this report, other than the 
Directors’ interests which are set out in the 
table on the preceeding page, the Company 
has been notified in accordance with the DTR 
of the following shareholdings amounting to 
more than 3% of the issued share capital of 
the Company.
MARKET ABUSE REGULATIONS 
The Company has its own internal dealing 
rules which applies to all staff and which 
encompass the requirements of the Market 
Abuse Regulations.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
At the Annual General Meeting on 21 October 
2016, the following three items of special 
business will be tabled:
1. Authority to purchase own shares: The Com-
pany was granted authority at the AGM in 2015 
to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate 
value of 10% of the issued nominal capital. 
This authority expires at this year’s AGM and 
a special resolution will be proposed for its 
renewal. This resolution gives the Directors 
authority to make market purchases of up 
to 47,431,862 ordinary shares, representing 
approximately 10% of the Company’s issued 
Interested Party Date of notification Number and % of Ordinary shares
BlackRock, Inc. 7 July 2016 32,343,003 (6.81%)
Peter Hargreaves 14 April 2015 152,639,678 (32.18%)
Stephen Lansdown 25 March 2014 75,500,000 (15.92%)
Baillie Gifford & Co 30 September 2014 23,888,812 (5.04%)
There is a Relationship Agreement in place between Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure 
that the independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules are complied with. The Board 
confirms that for the year ended 30 June 2016, and in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4(14):
(i)  The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship 
Agreement.
(ii)  So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship 
Agreement have been complied with by the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and 
their associates. 
  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
90
ordinary share capital at 5 September 2016. 
The Directors do not have any present 
intention to exercise such authority and the 
authority will expire at the conclusion of the 
next AGM after the passing of the proposed 
resolution.
2. and 3. Directors’ authority to allot shares 
and waiver of pre-emption rights: The 
following resolutions are to be proposed as 
special business at the AGM on 21 October 
2015 to enable the Directors to allot unissued 
shares and, subject to the limits therein 
contained, to allot shares for cash other than 
to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
shareholdings.
Allotment of shares – This resolution renews 
the Directors’ authority to allot shares. The 
maximum nominal value of relevant securities 
that may be allotted pursuant to the authority 
is £632,424.80, representing 158,106,200 
ordinary shares. This amount represents 
approximately 33.3 percent of the Company’s 
total share capital in issue as at 5 September 
2016.
Waiver of pre-emption rights – This 
resolution renews the Directors’ authority to 
issue new shares for cash, without following 
the statutory pre-emption procedures, 
so long as: (i) the issue is a rights issue, 
open offer or other pre-emptive offer, or 
pursuant to a scrip dividend alternative; or 
(ii) the aggregate nominal amount of such 
issue does not exceed £94,863.72 (which 
represents 5% of the issued share capital as 
at 5 September 2016). 
The Directors do not have any present 
intention of exercising either of the authorities 
and the authorities will expire at the conclusion 
of the next Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions seek authorities which are 
in accordance with the current guidelines 
issued by the Investment Committees of 
the Association of British Insurers and the 
National Association of Pension Funds.
PwC have expressed their willingness 
to accept appointment as auditor and a 
resolution to appoint them will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Table of cross references required for the Listing Rule 9.8.4 of the UK Listing Rules.
 
Listing Rule 9.8.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules requires us to make certain 
disclosures. The table below highlights each disclosure and where each can be found within the 
Annual Report.
Listing 
Rule 
9.8.4
Required Disclosure Location in the 
Annual Report
(1) A statement of the amount of interest, capitalised by the Group 
during the period under review with an indication of the amount 
and treatment of any related tax relief.
Not applicable
(2) Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.18R relating to 
unaudited financial information in a class 1 circular or a prospectus; 
or any profit forecast or profit estimate.
Not applicable
(3) Listing Rule deleted. Not applicable
(4) Details of long term incentive schemes as required by Listing Rule 
9.4.3R, being any arrangement where the only participant is a 
director of the listed company (or an individual whose appointment 
as a director of the listed company is being contemplated) and 
the arrangement is established specifically to facilitate, in unusual 
circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
Not applicable
(5) Details of any arrangements under which a director of the company 
has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the company 
or any subsidiary undertaking.
Not applicable
(6) Details where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, 
details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments 
which were waived during the period under review.
Not applicable
(7) Details of any allotment for cash of equity securities made during 
the period under review otherwise than to the holders of the 
company’s equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such 
equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by 
the company’s shareholders.
Not applicable
(8) The information required in item (7) above must be given for any 
unlisted major subsidiary undertaking of the company.
Not applicable
(9) Details of any share placing where the company is a subsidiary 
undertaking of another company. 
Not applicable
(10) Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period 
under review:
a) To which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary 
undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed 
company is or was materially interested; and
b) Between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary 
undertakings, and a controlling shareholder. 
Not applicable
(11) Details of any contract for the provision of services to the listed 
company or any of its subsidiary undertakings by a controlling 
shareholder, subsisting during the period under review.
Not applicable
(12) Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived 
or agreed to waive any dividends.
Note 10 to the consolidated 
financial statements 
provides information on 
employee benefit trusts that 
have waived dividends
(13) Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details 
of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are 
payable during the period of review.
Note 10 to the consolidated 
financial statements 
provides information on 
employee benefit trusts that 
have waived dividends
(14) A statement made by the Board in respect of matters relating to a 
controlling shareholder.
A statement regarding the 
controlling shareholder 
is on page 89 of the 
Directors’ report HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
91
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have 
assessed the viability of the Group over the 
period to June 2019. This assessment has been 
made with reference to the Group’s current 
position and prospects, the Group’s strategy, 
the Board’s risk appetite and the Group’s 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties as detailed in 
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. 
To date the Group’s business model (see pages 
18 to 21) has proved to be robust, consistently 
demonstrating growth in the core business 
through its ability to gather new assets and 
new clients on to the Vantage platform, even 
in challenging market conditions. The focus 
on excellent client service ensures asset and 
client retention rates are very strong which, 
combined with a high percentage of recurring 
income of 78%, has led to a strong track record 
of profit growth. The core business of the 
Group continues to increase its market share 
measurements and, in particular, Hargreaves 
Lansdown is by far the largest player in the 
“Direct to Client” platform space with a market 
share of 37.5%.
The Board is continuing with its focus on the 
core business model, supplemented with 
strategic initiatives funded from its own profits 
in order to broaden the services offered to 
its clients, primarily through the provision of 
additional cash services as highlighted on page 
6 to 7.
THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS AND KEY 
ASSUMPTIONS
During the year the Board implemented a new 
annual strategic planning process involving 
all the key functions of the business. Whilst 
the Board has no reason to believe that the 
Group will not be viable over a longer period, it 
considers a time horizon of three years to 30 
June 2019 as an appropriate period over which 
to assess its viability and prospects, and to 
plan the execution of its strategy.
The strategic planning process is overseen 
by the Board, which actively participates 
in the process through bi-annual strategy 
days and through challenges which take 
account of the external environment including 
macroeconomic, regulatory, social and 
technological changes. The output of the 
strategic plan is a set of objectives and the 
allocation of resources required to achieve 
them in order to further increase our market 
share and continue its profitable growth. This 
is supported by an analysis of the risks that 
could prevent the plan from being delivered 
and a set of financial forecasts.
The financial forecast covers the planning 
horizon of the strategic plan. The first year 
forms the basis for the operating plan which 
is reviewed on a six monthly basis. The later 
years are flexed once the year one basis is 
agreed. Key assumptions in the forecasts 
include:
• Continued growth in the self-directed 
investment market
• Launch of the HL Savings product
• Continuing to invest in our digital capability
• Investment in the development of people
ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY
The strategic plan provides long-term direction 
and will be re-evaluated on at least an annual 
basis. Although reflective of the Directors’ 
best estimate of the future prospects of the 
business, it is tested in a series of robust 
downside financial scenarios as part of the 
Group’s process to review the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), a 
regulatory requirement from the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
The ICAAP , required by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, is prepared to identify and 
quantify the Group’s risks and level of capital 
which should be held to cover those risks. 
Various stress test scenarios are created by 
management and with Board level input based 
upon our principal risks and which represent 
“severe but plausible” circumstances that the 
Group could experience. Stress test scenarios 
include fluctuations in markets, increased 
competition and disruption to business.
The results of this stress testing showed that 
due to the stability, profitability and cash 
generation of the core business, the Group 
would be able to withstand the impact of 
these scenarios occurring over the period of 
the financial forecast by making adjustments 
to its operating plans within the normal course 
of business.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
Based on their assessment of prospects and 
viability above, the Directors confirm that they 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation, and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due, over the three 
year period ending 30 June 2019.
Going concern
In conjunction with its assessment of longer 
term viability above, the Board concluded 
that it remained appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements as 
it believes the Group will continue to be in 
business, with neither the intention nor the 
necessity of liquidation, ceasing trading or 
seeking protection from creditors pursuant to 
laws or regulations for a period of at least 12 
months from the date of approval of the Group 
financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date 
of approval of this Annual Report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that 
they ought to have taken as a Director, in 
order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Approved by and signed on behalf of the Board 
Judith Matthews
Company Secretary
6 September 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
92
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and 
parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the 
Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for 
the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess a company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the Governance 
section of the Annual Report confirm that, 
to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the 
Group; and
• the Directors’ report contained in the 
Governance section of the Annual 
Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it 
faces.
By order of the Board 
Ian Gorham              
Chief Executive       
6 September 2016 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
93
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC 
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
OUR OPINION
In our opinion:
• Hargreaves Lansdown plc’s Group 
financial statements and parent company 
financial statements (the “financial 
statements”) give a true and fair view of 
the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 30 June 2016 and 
of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and 
the parent company’s cash flows for the 
year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union;
• the parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
The financial statements, included within the 
Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual 
Report”), comprise:
• the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Financial Position as at 30 
June 2016;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity for the 
year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from 
the financial statements and are identified 
as audited.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, and applicable law 
and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Materiality
Areas of
focus
Audit scope
Overview
• Overall Group materiality: £10.9 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
• The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 18 reporting units, nine of which are 
dormant.
• We perform a full scope audit of the complete financial information of two individually financially 
significant reporting units, which together represent 97% of the Group’s profit before tax.
• Specific procedures were also performed on a further three reporting units to audit 
stockbroking settlement receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents, shares held 
by the employee benefit trust (EBT) and the EBT reserve.
• Revenue recognition.
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining 
materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the Directors 
made subjective judgements, for example in 
respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also 
addressed the risk of management override 
of internal controls, including evaluating 
whether there was evidence of bias by the 
Directors that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit, including 
the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as “areas of focus” in the table 
below. We have also set out how we tailored 
our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments we 
make on the results of our procedures should 
be read in this context. This is not a complete 
list of all risks identified by our audit. 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
OUR AUDIT APPROACH HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
94
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
ASSET AND TRANSACTION BASED REVENUE STREAMS
To address the risk identified in the asset and transaction based revenue streams calculated by the 
underlying administration system, we independently reperformed the calculation of 93% of the asset and 
transaction based revenue streams recognised in the two in-scope reporting units based on data extracted 
from the administration system. 
In order to rely on the data extracted, we:
• reconciled transactional data provided from opening positions through to closing positions of individual 
securities held; and 
• tested a sample of transactions to supporting documentation such as customer instructions and a 
sample of security positions to stock reconciliations and external sources (such as fund manager 
statements).
This testing provided sufficient evidence for us to determine that the data extracted was reliable for the 
purposes of performing the recalculations. We tested the inputs of our recalculations by agreeing standing 
data, such as fee structures, commission rates and security prices, to supporting evidence on a sample basis. 
No exceptions were noted from testing the standing data. 
On the basis of this testing, we determined that it was appropriate for us to use the standing data in order 
to perform our independent recalculation of each of the revenue streams. We compared our independent 
recalculations to the amount reported and noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no 
further investigation.
We tested the remaining 7% of asset and transaction based revenue on a sample basis, agreeing each 
revenue item sampled back to supporting documentation. No exceptions were noted.
MANUALLY CALCULATED REVENUE STREAMS
Management fees relating to Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds
We agreed 100% of the revenue through to cash received in bank statements and manually recalculated the 
management fees. We noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no further investigation.
Interest income on client money
On a sample basis we manually recalculated the gross interest earned on client money based on records 
maintained by management, and tested these records by agreeing a sample of deposits and interest rates to 
documentation received from the relevant bank. 
Using data auditing techniques, we recalculated the amount of interest paid to clients using the daily cash 
balance as recorded in the underlying administration system, and standard rates. To rely on the cash data 
extracted from the system, we tested a sample of cash payments and receipts to supporting documentation 
and the cash balance at 30 June 2016 to client money reconciliations which we have tested. In addition, we 
agreed a sample of rates to those communicated to customers.
No exceptions were noted from our testing of cash movements, or testing of the rates communicated 
to customers and, on this basis, we determined that it was appropriate for us to use this data in order 
to perform our independent recalculation of interest paid to clients. We compared our independent 
recalculation of interest paid to clients to the amount reported and noted differences that, in our view, were 
trivial and required no further investigation.
ALL REVENUE STREAMS
As part of our testing described above, we ensured revenue was recognised in the correct period.
In addition, we performed risk based target testing of journals posted into the general ledger. This included 
identification of those journals posted to revenue which did not follow the expected posting pattern as this 
could be indicative of fraud or error. For those journals identified, we understood the nature of the journal 
and agreed the appropriateness of the journal with reference to supporting documentation. No exceptions 
were noted.
Finally we reviewed the revenue accounting policies disclosed in note 2 of the Group financial statements to 
ensure that they are consistent with accounting standards. No exceptions were noted.
REVENUE RECOGNITION (REFER TO THE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE REPORT, REVENUE RECOGNITION 
SECTION OF NOTE 2, AND NOTE 4)
We focus on revenue recognition because it is material 
and is an important determinant of the Group’s 
profitability. 
There are incentive schemes in place for Directors and 
staff which are in part based on the Group’s revenue 
performance, and certain share schemes for senior 
management with earnings per share performance 
conditions. As in any organisation where there are 
incentives based on performance, there is an inherent 
risk of fraud in revenue recognition as there is an 
incentive to overstate revenue. Revenue may also 
be misstated due to errors in system calculations or 
manual processes.
We have assessed each revenue stream for the two 
in-scope reporting units and determined that there is a 
significant risk in each of the revenue streams. The risk 
is dependent upon the opportunity for errors to occur 
or for management to commit fraud. Our assessment of 
the risks for each revenue type is as follows:
Type of revenue Description, including fraud 
risk factors
Asset and 
transaction based 
revenue streams 
calculated by 
the underlying 
administration 
system
Renewal income
Management fees 
on SIPP and ISAs
Platform fees
Stockbroking 
commission
Other income
These revenue streams are either 
calculated based on the value of 
assets held or are based on activities 
undertaken by the customer, such as 
stockbroking or transferring assets to 
other platform providers.
The value of securities and all 
customer activities is held in the 
underlying administration system 
which supports the Vantage and 
PMS platforms. The rates are derived 
from the standard rate tables or from 
agreements with fund groups.
Unauthorised changes to, or errors 
in, these inputs could lead to 
misstatement of revenue. 
Revenue streams 
manually 
calculated by 
management
Management 
fees relating 
to Hargreaves 
Lansdown Multi-
Manager funds
Interest income on 
client money
Two in-scope revenue streams are 
manually calculated by management: 
the Multi-Manager fund Annual 
Management Charges (AMCs) and 
interest on client money. 
The AMCs are manually calculated by 
management based on the net asset 
value of funds provided by Northern 
Trust, an independent third party, and 
the published AMC rate.
Gross interest on client money is cal-
culated by management based on the 
deposit balance and the rate agreed 
with the bank. The interest recognised 
within revenue is net of a proportion 
of the gross interest which is due to 
customers. The interest due to cus-
tomers is calculated by the underlying 
administration system based on rate 
tables and client cash balances.
As a result, misstatement of revenue 
could arise from fraudulently manipu-
lating manual calculations, spreadsheet 
errors or unauthorised changes to 
interest rates paid to customers. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
95
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure 
that we performed enough work to be able to 
give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the structure 
of the group, the accounting processes and 
controls, and the industry in which the Group 
operates. 
The Group financial statements are a 
consolidation of 18 separate legal entities. 
There are six main subsidiaries, two 
of which we consider to be financially 
significant reporting units and on which we 
performed an audit of their complete financial 
information. An entity was considered to be 
financially significant if it contributed more 
than 5% of consolidated profit before tax. 
In addition, we determined that there were 
three entities which required an audit of 
specific account balances, being stockbroking 
settlement receivables and payables, cash 
and cash equivalents and shares held by the 
EBT and the EBT reserve. 
All of the audit work was performed by the 
Group engagement team in the UK as all 
books and recorded were available at one 
location. The Group does not make use of a 
shared service centre. 
MATERIALITY
The scope of our audit was influenced by 
our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, 
helped us to determine the scope of our audit 
and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement 
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and 
on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we 
determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £10.9 million (2015: £9.95 million).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied As the Group is profit orientated, we have calculated materiality with reference to profit before tax.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The 
range of materiality allocated across components was £0.2 million - £9.8 million. Certain components were audited to 
a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that 
we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above £540,000 
(2015: £497,000) as well as misstatements 
below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Directors’ statement, set out on 
page 91, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our 
review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if we have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the Directors’ statement about whether 
they considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the 
Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and parent 
company have adequate resources to remain 
in operation, and that the Directors intend 
them to do so, for at least one year from the 
date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that 
the Directors’ use of the going concern basis 
is appropriate. However, because not all 
future events or conditions can be predicted, 
these statements are not a guarantee as to 
the Group’s and parent company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
96
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAS (UK & IRELAND) REPORTING
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
○ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
○ apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
○ otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the statement given by the Directors on page 92, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as 
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s and parent company’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent 
company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 60, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention 
to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention 
to.
• the Directors’ explanation on page 91 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 
of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement 
as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including 
any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention 
to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group 
and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of 
making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions 
of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY 
OF THE GROUP HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
97
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS 
AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS 
RECEIVED
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit; 
or
• adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration report - 
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have 
no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to ten further provisions 
of the Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 
THE AUDIT
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF 
THE DIRECTORS
As explained more fully in the Statement of 
Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 
92, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK 
& Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has 
been prepared for and only for the parent 
company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS INVOLVES
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in 
the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to 
the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing 
the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If 
we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Alex Bertolotti (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
London
6 September 2016
• The maintenance and integrity of the 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work 
carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters 
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no 
responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements 
since they were initially presented on the 
website.
• Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
98
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
03 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GOVERNANCE
99 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100
The results relate entirely to continuing operations.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  
for the year ended 30 June 2016 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 June 2016
Note
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
 
£’000
Revenue 4 388,333 395,137
Commission payable (61,797) (100,949)
Net revenue 326,536 294,188
Staff costs 7 (60,217) (53,117)
Other operating costs (42,575) (38,603)
FSCS costs (5,494) (4,417)
Operating profit 6 218,250 198,051
Investment revenue 8 629 987
Profit before tax 218,879 199,038
Tax 9 (41,623) (41,789)
Profit for the financial year 177,256 157,249
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 176,895 156,664
Non-controlling interest 361 585
177,256 157,249
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 11 37.4 33.2
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 11 37.3 33.1
Year ended 
30 June 2016 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015 
£’000
Profit for the financial year 177,256 157,249
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 177,256 157,249
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 176,895 156,664
Non-controlling interest 361 585
177,256 157,249 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
for the year ended 30 June 2016 
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. 
The Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust (“the EBT”) reserve represents the cost of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc purchased in the market and held by the Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
The EBT reserve represents the cumulative gain on disposal of investments held by the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT. The reserve is not distributable by the Company as the assets and 
liabilities of the EBT are subject to management by the Trustees in accordance with the EBT trust deed.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Non-controlling interests consist of the minority’s proportion 
of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interest’s change in equity since that date. The non-
controlling interest represents a 22% shareholding in Library Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
Attributable to the owners of the parent
 Share 
capital
£’000
 Share 
premium 
account
£’000
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
 Shares 
held by EBT 
reserve
£’000
 EBT 
reserve
£’000
 Retained 
earnings
£’000
 Total
£’000
 Non-
controlling 
interest
£’000
 Total
 equity
£’000
At 1 July 2014 1,897 8 12 (16,221) 13,545 228,512 227,753 591 228,344
Total comprehensive income - - - - - 156,664 156,664 585 157,249
Change to non-controlling interest 
(Note 27)
- - - - - (964) (964) (103) (1,067)
Employee Benefit Trust:
Shares sold in the year - - - 5,203 - - 5,203 - 5,203
Shares acquired in the year - - - (2,000) - - (2,000) - (2,000)
EBT share sale - - - - (841) - (841) - (841)
Employee share option scheme:
Share-based payments expense - - - - - 2,109 2,109 - 2,109
Current tax effect of 
share-based payments
- - - - - 1,305 1,305 - 1,305
Deferred tax effect of 
share-based payments
- - - - - (592) (592) - (592)
Dividend paid (Note 10) - - - - - (152,071) (152,071) (572) (152,643)
At 30 June 2015 1,897 8 12 (13,018) 12,704 234,963 236,566 501 237,067
Total comprehensive income - - - - - 176,895 176,895 361 177,256
Employee Benefit Trust:
Shares sold in the year - - - 14,095 - - 14,095 - 14,095
Shares acquired in the year - - - (15,927) - - (15,927) - (15,927)
EBT share sale - - - - (3,441) - (3,441) - (3,441)
Reserve transfer on exercise of share 
options
- - - - 2,736 (2,736) - - -
Employee share option scheme:
Share-based payments expense - - - - - 2,525 2,525 - 2,525
Current tax effect of 
share-based payments
- - - - - 3,122 3,122 - 3,122
Deferred tax effect of 
share-based payments
- - - - - (1,955) (1,955) - (1,955)
Dividend paid (Note 10) - - - - - (158,182) (158,182) (396) (158,578)
At 30 June 2016 1,897 8 12 (14,850) 11,999 254,632 253,698 466 254,164 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
102
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
as at 30 June 2016
Note
At 30 June 2016
£’000
At 30 June 2015
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 1,333 1,333
Other intangible assets 13 7,050 4,614
Property, plant and equipment 14 10,987 11,990
Deferred tax assets 19 2,775 6,118
22,145 24,055
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 617,013 411,705
Cash and cash equivalents 18 211,393 216,753
Investments 16 994 909
Current tax assets 33 -
829,433 629,367
Total assets 851,578 653,422
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 581,685 397,262
Current tax liabilities 15,242 18,861
596,927 416,123
Net current assets 232,506 213,244
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 21 487 232
Total liabilities 597,414 416,356
Net assets 254,164 237,067
EQUITY
Share capital 22 1,897 1,897
Share premium account 8 8
Investment revaluation reserve - -
Capital redemption reserve 12 12
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve (14,850) (13,018)
EBT reserve 11,999 12,704
Retained earnings 254,632 234,963
Total equity, attributable to the owners of the parent   253,698 236,566
Non-controlling interest 466 501
Total equity 254,164 237,067
The consolidated financial statements on pages 100 to 132 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 September 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Gorham        Christopher Hill
          
Chief Executive       Chief Financial Officer HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
for the year ended 30 June 2016
Note
Year ended 
30 June 2016 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Net cash from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 205,360 212,991
Income tax paid (40,766) (41,603)
Net cash generated from operating activities 164,594 171,388
Investing activities
Interest received 458 896
Dividends received from investments 171 91
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,534) (2,590)
Purchase of intangible assets (4,114) (2,887)
Purchase of available-for-sale investments (85) (35)
Net cash used in investing activities (6,104) (4,525)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares in EBT (15,927) (2,000)
Proceeds on sale of own shares in EBT 10,655 4,362
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (158,182) (152,071)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (396) (572)
Purchase of non-controlling interest in subsidiary - (1,067)
Net cash used in financing activities (163,850) (151,348)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (5,360) 15,515
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 216,753 201,238
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 211,393 216,753 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
104
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) and ultimate parent of the Group is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under  
the Companies Act 2006 whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is One College Square 
South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating and 
Financial Review. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and 
are rounded to the nearest thousand.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) and IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union (EU), and with those parts of the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as discussed on page 91.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 3.
During the year the following changes to the basis of preparation have been made: 
1. Revenue and Commission Payable have been subtotalled on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement to present ‘Net Revenue’. This is to 
improve the understandability of the financial statements as a whole. 
2. The 2015 ‘Purchase of non-controlling interest in subsidiary’ in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been reclassified from investing 
activities to financing activities as this better reflects the nature of the cash flow.
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have not affected the amounts reported or the 
accounting policies in these financial statements:
• Annual improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 cycle:
○ Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payments’, which clarifies the definition of ‘vesting condition’ and now distinguishes between ‘performance 
condition’ and ‘service condition’.
○ Amendments to IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’, which requires disclosure of the judgements made by management in applying aggregation criteria to 
operating segments and clarifies that an entity shall only provide reconciliations of segment assets if segment assets are reported regularly.
○ Amendments to IFRS 13, ‘Fair Value Measurement’, which clarifies that short-term receivables and payables may continue to be measured at invoice 
amounts if the impact of discounting is immaterial. 
○ Amendments to IAS 24, ‘Related Party Disclosures’, which clarifies that an entity providing key management personnel services to the reporting entity 
is a related party of the reporting entity.
• Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions’
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
 -  IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
 -  IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
 -  Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
 -  Amendments to IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’
 -  Amendments to IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’
 -  Annual improvements to IFRS 2012 - 2014 cycle
 -  Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ 
 - Amendments to IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’
 -  Amendments to IAS 28 (revised 2011) ‘Investments in associates and 
joint ventures’
 -  Amendments to IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’
 -  Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
The Directors are currently investigating whether the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group in future periods.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and financial 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105
assets at fair value through profit and loss. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and subsidiary undertakings (investees) controlled 
by the Group made up to 30 June 2016. The Group controls an investee when it has power over an investee, is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The Group reassesses 
whether it controls an investee when facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more elements of control.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used 
by the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 
“Business Combinations” are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to 
the cash-generating unit expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated 
are reviewed for impairment at least annually as a matter of course, and whenever an event or change in circumstances occurs which indicates 
potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value 
less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Revenue is primarily classified as recurring, transactional or other. 
Recurring revenue principally comprises the revenue streams of renewal income, management fees, platform fees and interest income on client 
money, while transactional revenue principally comprises initial commission on stockbroking transactions. Revenue is recognised as follows: 
Recurring
Renewal income is earned from fund management groups and is recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of assets under 
the administration, or agency, of the Group primarily at each month-end. As from 1 April 2016 any renewal income received from fund management 
groups was passed entirely to the clients meaning that both the income and the costs were no longer recognised.  Prior to 1 April 2016, renewal 
income that was earned from fund managers on legacy business was recognised where Hargreaves Lansdown had complete discretion over 
amounts that were passed on to clients. Management and platform fees are paid by clients and are recognised on an accruals basis calculated 
according to the level of applicable assets where fees apply at each month-end. The interest income on client money balances is the net interest 
margin earned by the Group and is accrued on a time basis, according to the client money balances under administration and by reference to the 
effective interest rate applicable HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106
Transactional
The Group’s stockbroking and unit trust management subsidiaries earn commission on securities and currency transactions entered into on behalf 
of clients. The commission earned is recorded in the accounts on the date of the transaction, as this is the date on which the service is provided to 
the client and the Group becomes entitled to the income.
The Group also earns initial commission from annuity services and from third party providers on the set up of group pension schemes. Initial 
commissions on group pension schemes are deemed to be earned at the policy inception date on those policies where there are only negligible 
ongoing services. Where ongoing services are provided, an appropriate proportion of the income is deferred over the relevant period. Where 
such commission is received on an indemnity basis, a provision is made for clawbacks, if any, which would be due if the policy lapses during the 
indemnity period.
Adviser charges are made to clients for initial advice in setting them up in either the Portfolio Management Service or as a Vantage execution only 
client and for adhoc advice on specific financial matters. The charges are recorded in the accounts at the date the advice was given or at the date 
that assets relating to the advice are recorded on the platform.
Other
Other income principally represents the amount of fees receivable from the provision of Funds Library services, and is recognised on an accruals 
basis when the services are provided. 
Investment revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal balance and the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income from 
investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Commission payable, staff costs and other operating costs
Commission payable represents a percentage of renewal income paid to clients as a loyalty bonus. As from 1 April 2016 any renewal income 
received from fund management groups was passed entirely to the clients meaning that both the income and the costs were no longer recognised. 
Prior to 1 April 2016, commission in relation to legacy business was recognised as a commission payable where Hargreaves Lansdown had 
complete discretion over the amount of commission that was passed on to clients. Staff costs represent amounts paid to employees in respect 
of services provided in the year including wages and salaries, share-based payment expenses, bonuses, payments to a defined contribution 
retirement benefit scheme and related social security costs. Other operating costs represent those arising as a result of our operations and include 
depreciation and amortisation. All amounts are recognised on an accrual basis. FSCS costs are those relating to the running of and the levies issued 
under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and are recognised in accordance with IFRIC 21. The levy is therefore accrued for in full on 1 
April each year, being the first day of the year to which the levy relates. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance 
sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Provisions are recognised for:
- future committed property lease payments when the Group receives no benefit from the property through continuing usage and future receipts 
from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the Group’s future committed payments.
- commissions received on indemnity terms where there may be a liability to repay the commissions received.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax 
is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest 
and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of 
options expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is 
recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. 
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares 
were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore, in the absence of a readily available market price for the shares, the share price was based 
on the market value agreed with HM Revenue & Customs and share price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility applying to a 
comparable group of listed companies. 
Any gains or losses on sale of the Company’s own shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) are credited or debited 
directly to the EBT reserve and are treated as undistributable profits.
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged on all plant 
and equipment based on the estimates of their useful economic lives and expected residual values, which are reviewed annually. Management 
determines the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on experience with similar assets and taking into account 
other relevant factors such as any expected changes in technology. The charge is calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated 
residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
 Computer hardware – over three to ten years
 Office equipment (which includes leasehold property tenants’ fixtures and other fixtures) - over three to ten years
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Leasing
Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits 
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill
Other intangible assets comprise computer software, customer lists and the Group’s key operating system which are stated at cost less 
amortisation and any recognised impairment loss. Amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible assets excluding goodwill at rates 
calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated 
useful life as follows: HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108
 Computer software - over three to eight years
 Customer list – eight years
Computer software relates entirely to purchases and does not include any internally generated value. The carrying values of computer software are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The gain or loss arising 
on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in income.
The customer list relates to an acquired book of business and does not include internally generated client lists. The carrying value of the asset is 
reviewed for impairment every 12 months, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Internally generated assets
Core systems upgrades
IT development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset, which delivers benefits at least as great 
as the amount capitalised and in accordance with the recognition criteria of IAS 38 “Intangible assets”. Development work has been undertaken 
in-house by IT staff and management to enhance the key operating systems. Until 1 July 2012 this cost was not material and was recognised 
as an expense, the amounts since then have been more material and have been part of a planned multi-year strategic enhancement project. In 
accordance with the provisions of IAS 38 the costs are now being capitalised as an intangible asset and subsequently amortised over the estimated 
useful life of the system of eight years. This key operating system is fundamental to the operation of the Vantage platform which holds client assets 
enabling revenue to be earned. Where such costs relate to an asset that is not yet available for use by the business, they have been separately 
classified as assets under construction and have not been amortised, but instead been reviewed for impairment. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Savings
In-house development work has also been undertaken in Hargreaves Lansdown Savings Limited to develop a digital cash savings product and a 
Peer to Peer lending platform. Following last year’s research phase which established demand and the feasibility for these services a business plan 
was drawn which formed part of the strategic initiatives approved by the Board. Development commenced in the year to 30 June 2016 and the 
Group is committed to the completion and launch of the services in the next financial year and will provide the financial resources required to see it 
through to expected profitability. In accordance with IAS 38 the development costs are being capitalised and are recognised initially at cost. 
Internal policies exist to identify intangible assets that can be capitalised and in the case of internally generated assets a process of time sheets for 
IT developers and management time is used to identify the initial costs to be capitalised. Where IT development costs relate to an asset that is now 
used amortisation is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of eight years. 
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of 
fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are declared and paid, or, if 
earlier, in the accounting period when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts 
are made and recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. In accordance with market practice, certain 
balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as debtors. Market receivables and payables are 
presented net where there is a legal right of offset and an intention and ability to settle net.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
109
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require 
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The Group’s available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation 
gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 101, until 
sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement. If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted 
market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost. 
Investments which are designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted market price of the 
listed investment, with any gain or loss reported within the income statement. An investment is classified in this category if it is held principally for 
the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash. They are 
recognised as loans and receivables which means they are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. The carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. In accordance with market practice, certain balances with 
clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as creditors. Market debtors and creditors are presented net where 
there is a legal right of offset and an intention and ability to settle net.
Interests in other entities
The Group has determined that investment funds that it manages are structured entities. Structured entities include entities that are designed so 
that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when the relevant activities are directed by 
means of a contractual relationship. As the Group directs the investing activities of the ten Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds through its 
investment management agreements with them, it considers them to be structured entities. The Group holds interests in these funds through the 
receipt of management fees, together with ownership interests that it holds. Investments in the funds have been designated at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL). 
3. KEY SOURCES OF JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on 
management’s best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and 
assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change. The areas where a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are minimal and discussed below.
Share-based payments
In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions 
about the future events and market conditions. In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the 
fair value of each award granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model which is dependent on future estimates, 
including the Group’s future dividend policy, the timing with which the options will be exercised and the future volatility in the price of the Group’s 
shares. Different assumptions about these factors to those made by the Group could affect the reported value of share-based payments. Whilst this 
is an area of judgement in the financial statements, the value of share-based payments is not materially impacted by the selection of assumptions 
and consequently no sensitivity analysis has been presented. The main assumptions are provided in Note 25. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
110
Internally generated intangible assets
The Group is making a significant investment in the development of the HL Savings proposition. Given the expected long-term economic benefit 
that this is expected to bring, development costs incurred are being capitalised. The Group has reviewed and approved the policy for capitalising 
such intangible assets and ensuring they are in accordance with IAS 38. As a result although future economic benefit cannot be guaranteed 
£1.1million of development costs incurred since 1 July 2015 have been capitalised. 
4. REVENUE
Revenue represents commission receivable from financial services provided to clients, interest income on client money and management fees charged 
to clients. It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax. An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2016 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Revenue from services:
Recurring income 317,089 329,900
Transactional income 65,035 58,816
Other income 6,209 6,421
Total revenue 388,333 395,137
Recurring income comprises renewal income (2016: £76.9m, 2015: £121.1m), management fees relating to the PMS Service and Vantage SIPP and 
ISA accounts (2016: £25.5m, 2015: £24.2m), management fees relating to the Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds (2016: £44.1m, 2015: 
£36.5m), platform fees (2016: £139.4m, 2015: £123.8m) and interest income on client money (2016: £31.2m, 2015: £24.3m). Transactional income 
comprises commission earned from stockbroking transactions (2016: £46.8m, 2015: £39.3m), adviser charges (2016: £10.5m, 2015: £9.7m) and 
other income (2016: £7.7m, 2015: £9.8m). Other income represents the amount of fees receivable from the provision of funds data services and 
research through Library Information Services Ltd to external parties. The policies adopted for the recognition of each significant revenue stream 
are set out in Note 2 above.
Following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”) on 1 March 2014, total revenue earned from investment funds held by clients 
significantly increased as a new platform fee was introduced. At the same time commission income is being received from the fund management groups 
on funds purchased by clients before the RDR implementation date. Where we still receive commission on these pre RDR or “legacy funds” the vast 
majority is now passed back to our clients in the form of a significantly higher loyalty bonus which is shown within commission payable in the income 
statement. From 1 April 2016 any renewal income received from fund management groups relating to legacy funds was passed back entirely to the 
client. This commission was therefore no longer recorded as a revenue and the loyalty payment to clients was no longer recorded as a cost. In order to 
aid comparability across this transitional period the measure of net revenue is felt to be more meaningful and hence has been used in the Operating and 
Financial review section and is shown in the income statement. Net revenue is measured as revenue less commission payable. 
5. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group is organised into three business segments, namely the Vantage division, the Discretionary/Managed division and the Third Party/
Other Services division. This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided with financial information. The CODM has been identified as the Board of Executive Directors.
The ‘Vantage’ division represents all activities relating to our direct to private investor platform. 
The ‘Discretionary/Managed’ division is focused on the provision of managed services such as our Portfolio Management Service (PMS) and range 
of Multi-Manager funds. 
The ‘Third Party/Other Services’ division includes activities relating to the broking of third party investments and pensions, certificated share dealing 
and other niche services such as currency, CFDs and spread betting. In this division, clients’ investments are not administered within the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111
The ‘Group’ segment contains items that are shared by the Group as a whole and cannot be reasonably allocated to other operating segments.
Segment expenses are those that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can reasonably 
be allocated to the segment. Gains or losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments, investment income, interest payable and tax are not 
allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items. 
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated. At 30 June 2016 and 2015, these comprise cash and 
cash equivalents, short-term investments, tax-related and other assets or liabilities. 
Consolidation adjustments relate to the elimination of inter-segment revenues at arm’s length prices, balances and investments in Group subsidiaries 
required on consolidation.
Vantage
£’000
Discretionary/ 
Managed
£’000
Third Party/
Other Services
£’000
Group
£’000
Consolidation 
Adjustment
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Year ended 30 June 2016
Revenue from external customers 307,522 58,956 21,855 - - 388,333
Commission payable (61,702) (27) (68) - - (61,797)
Total segment net revenue 245,820 58,929 21,787 - - 326,536
Depreciation and amortisation 4,143 376 697 - - 5,216
Investment revenue - - - 629 - 629
Reportable segment profit before tax 166,373 45,348 7,613 (455) - 218,879
Reportable segment assets 614,314 31,336 6,156 239,426 (39,654) 851,578
Reportable segment liabilities (571,409) (26,550) (548) (38,561) 39,654 (597,414)
Net segment assets 42,905 4,786 5,608 200,865 - 254,164
Year ended 30 June 2015
Revenue from external customers 320,849 52,451 21,837 - - 395,137
Commission payable (100,879) (15) (55) - - (100,949)
Total segment net revenue 219,970 52,436 21,782 - - 294,188
Depreciation and amortisation 3,537 355 488 - - 4,380
Investment revenue - - - 987 - 987
Reportable segment profit before tax 147,463 39,855 11,516 204 - 199,038
Reportable segment assets 398,582 35,022 13,159 247,229 (40,570) 653,422
Reportable segment liabilities (387,092) (24,966) (409) (44,458) 40,570 (416,355)
Net segment assets 11,490 10,056 12,750 202,771 - 237,067
Information about products/services
The Group’s operating segments are business units that provide different products and services. The breakdown of revenue from external customers for 
each type of service is therefore the same as the segmental analysis above.
Information about geographical area
All business activities are located within the UK.
Information about major customers
The Group does not rely on any individual customer. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Depreciation of owned plant and equipment 3,537 3,279
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,678 1,101 
Operating lease rentals payable – property 2,440 2,433
Office running costs 4,809 4,253
Marketing and distribution 11,215 12,737
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Audit fees:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the statutory audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 9 5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for the audits of the Company’s associates 122 105
Audit related assurance services 153 110
Total fees: 284 220*
* An additional £5,000 of fees were incurred relating to a subsidiary company which was audited after the finalisation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
7. STAFF COSTS
Year ended 
30 June 2016
Year ended 
30 June 2015
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including executive Directors) was: No. No.
Operating and support functions 660 638
Administrative functions 309 272
969 910
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 47,007 41,630
Social security costs 5,874 4,949
Share-based payment expenses 2,525 2,109
Other pension costs 4,812 4,429
60,217 53,117 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113
The staff costs above are after stripping out costs that have been capitalised under intangible assets as assets under construction. In total 
£1,987,000 of wages and salaries (2015: £1,009,000), social security costs of £220,000 (2015: £117,000) and pension costs of £86,000 (2015: 
£75,000) were capitalised.
The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages, which may 
be linked to the creation of long-term shareholder value. Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market 
generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. All employees are eligible to be considered for an annual discretionary 
bonus. In addition to cash bonuses, the Group operates various share-based remuneration schemes as described in Note 25. Other pension costs 
relate wholly to defined contribution schemes.
8. INVESTMENT REVENUE
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 458 896
Dividends from equity investment 171 91
629 987
9. TAX
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Current tax: on profits for the year 40,771 41,749
Current tax: adjustments in respect of prior years (536) -
Deferred tax (Note 19) 231 41
Deferred tax: adjustments in respect of prior years (Note 19) 1,157 (1)
41,623 41,789
Corporation tax is calculated at 20% of the estimated assessable profit for the year to 30 June 2016 (2015: 20.75%). 
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, certain tax amounts have been charged or (credited) directly to equity as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Deferred tax relating to share-based payments 1,955 592
Current tax relating to share-based payments (3,122) (1,305)
(1,167) (713)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
It is expected that the ongoing effective tax rate will remain at a rate approximating to the standard UK corporation tax rate in the medium term 
except for the impact of deferred tax arising from the timing of exercising of share options which is not under our control. The standard UK 
corporation tax rate was reduced to 20% (from 21%) on 1 April 2015 and accordingly the Group’s profits for this accounting year are taxed at an 
effective rate of 20.0%. Deferred tax has been recognised at 20%, being the rate at which the deferred tax assets are expected to reverse. A 
deferred tax asset in respect of future share option deductions has been recognised based on the Company’s share price as at 30 June 2016. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Factors affecting future tax charge
Any increase or decrease to the Company’s share price will impact the amount of tax deduction available in future years on the value of shares acquired 
by staff under share incentive schemes. The Finance Act 2015 received Royal Assent on 18 November 2015 and has reduced the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. A planned reduction in the rate to 17% has yet to be substantively enacted.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Profit before tax 218,879 199,038
Tax at the standard UK corporate tax rate of 20.00% (2015: 20.75%) 43,776 41,302
Items (allowable)/not allowable for tax (2,774) 424
Adjustments in respect of prior years 621 (1)
Impact of the change in tax rate - 64
Tax expense for the year 41,623 41,789
Effective tax rate 19.0% 21.0%
10. DIVIDENDS 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
2015 Second interim dividend of 14.30p (2014: 15.39p) per share 67,515 72,449
2015 Special dividend of 11.40p (2014: 9.61p) per share 53,850 45,248
2016 First interim dividend of 7.80p (2015: 7.30p) per share 36,817 34,374
Total dividends paid during the year 158,182 152,071
After the balance sheet date, the Directors declared a second interim (final) ordinary dividend of 16.30 pence per share and a special dividend 
of 9.90 pence per share payable on 28 September 2016 to shareholders on the register on 16 September 2016. Dividends are required to be 
recognised in the financial statements when paid, and accordingly the declared dividend amounts are not recognised in these financial statements, 
but will be included in the 2017 financial statements as follows: 
£’000
2016 Second interim dividend of 16.30p (2015: 14.30p) per share 77,036
2016 Special dividend of 9.90p (2015: 11.40p) per share 46,789
2016 Total declared dividend of 34.0p (2015: 33.0p) per share 160,642
Under an arrangement dated 30 June 1997 the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust, which held the following number of ordinary shares 
in Hargreaves Lansdown plc at the date shown, has agreed to waive all dividends.
Year ended 
30 June 2016
No. of shares
Year ended 
30 June 2015
No. of shares
Number of shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust 1,724,330 2,726,361
Representing % of called-up share capital 0.36% 0.57% HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in free issue during the year, including ordinary shares held in the EBT reserve which have vested unconditionally with employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive 
potential ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 1,285,073 
at 30 June 2016 (2015: 1,010,928).
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Earnings (all from continuing operations):
Earnings for the purposes of basic & diluted EPS - net profit attributable to equity holders of parent company 176,895 156,664
Number of shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 474,720,091 473,716,102
Weighted average number of shares held by HL EBT which have not vested unconditionally with employees (1,818,222) (2,068,619)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 472,901,869 471,647,483
Earnings per share: Pence Pence
Basic EPS 37.4 33.2
Diluted EPS 37.3 33.1
12. GOODWILL
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Cost - at beginning and end of year 1,450 1,450
Accumulated impairment losses
At beginning and end of year 117 117
Carrying amount - at end of year 1,333 1,333
The net carrying value of goodwill relates entirely to the acquisition of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited (HLPD) now named Hargreaves 
Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS).
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The Group has prepared 
financial forecasts for the business for the period to June 2019 which show that the Group as a whole will remain highly profitable and cash generative. 
Within the forecast, the revenue streams which belong to HLAS, although lower than before the restructuring, are forecast to grow with the Company 
continuing to be profitable. HLAS is profit-making (profit before tax for year ended 30 June 2016 was £1.9 million) and has a net assets position as at 
30 June 2016 of £ 9.6 million, and as a result there are no factors indicating goodwill is impaired. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116
13. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Customer list
£’000
Assets under 
construction
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2014 - 1,294 4,489 5,783
Additions - 1,201 1,686 2,887
At 30 June 2015 - 2,495 6,175 8,670
Additions 399 2,292 1,423 4,114
At 30 June 2016 399 4,787 7,598 12,784
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2014 - - 2,955 2,955
Charge - 131 970 1,101
At 30 June 2015 - 131 3,925 4,056
Charge - 370 1,308 1,678
At 30 June 2016 - 501 5,233 5,734
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2016 399 4,286 2,365 7,050
At 30 June 2015 - 2,364 2,250 4,614
At 1 July 2014 - 1,294 1,534 2,828
The amortisation charge above is included in other operating costs in the income statement. 
The customer list is a separately acquired intangible asset and does not include any internally generated client lists. The remaining amortisation 
period for this asset is eight years. 
Assets under construction are primarily internally generated being IT development staff working on an upgrade of the core IT platform for the 
business, and IT development staff working on the development of a new IT platform for a digital cash deposit and peer to peer lending services. 
The upgrade of the core IT platform is an ongoing project and whilst the system is still being developed to allow it to handle current transactions, 
tranches of archived information have been transferred across to the new system and therefore amortisation has started despite development work 
being ongoing. The remaining period of amortisation for this is asset is therefore between seven and eight years. The development of the new IT 
platform is not yet complete and so amortisation of the asset has not begun. This asset will be amortised over a period of eight years. 
Computer software includes no internally generated value.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment: 
Computer 
Hardware
£’000
Office 
Equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2014 18,108 6,026 24,134
Additions 2,534 56 2,590
At 30 June 2015 20,642 6,082 26,724
Additions 2,380 154 2,534
At 30 June 2016 23,022 6,236 29,258
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2014 8,589 2,866 11,455
Charge 2,702 577 3,279
At 30 June 2015 11,291 3,443 14,734
Charge 2,947 590 3,537
At 30 June 2016 14,238 4,033 18,271
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2016 8,784 2,203 10,987
At 30 June 2015 9,351 2,639 11,990
At 1 July 2014 9,519 3,160 12,679
15. SUBSIDIARIES
 
A list of the investments in subsidiaries included in the consolidated results of Hargreaves Lansdown plc is shown in Note 4 to the parent company 
financial statements. One of the subsidiaries is Hargreaves Lansdown Savings Ltd (formerly a dormant company called Hargreaves Lansdown IT & 
Admin Services). It became active in the prior year and is the Company through which the new cash management services referred to on page 6 are 
currently being developed. Also included in the Group Consolidated Financial Statements are “The Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust”, 
“The Hargreaves Lansdown Plc SIP Trust” and the Share Incentive Plan. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118
16. INVESTMENTS
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
At beginning of year 909 874
Purchases 85 35
At end of year 994 909
Comprising:
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price 730 645
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost 264 264
£730,000 (2015: £645,000) of investments are classified as held at fair value through profit and loss and £264,000 (2015: £264,000) are 
classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the 
revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, until sale 
when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement. If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market 
price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the 
investment.
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015 
£’000
Financial assets:
Trade receivables 576,402 380,803
Other receivables 559 1,460
576,961 382,263
Non-financial assets:
Prepayments and accrued income 40,052 29,442
617,013 411,705
Trade and other receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are 
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. In accordance with market practice, certain balances with 
clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties totalling £560.9 million (2015: £363.2 million) are included in trade receivables. 
These balances are presented net where there is a legal right of offset and the ability and intention to settle net. The gross amount of trade 
receivables is £718.0 million and the gross amount offset in the balance sheet with trade payables is £157.2 million. Other than counterparty 
balances trade receivables primarily consist of fees and amounts owed by clients and renewal commission owed by fund management groups. 
There are no balances where there is a legal right of offset but not a right of offset in accordance with accounting standards, and no collateral has 
been posted for the balances that have been offset. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents:
Restricted cash – balances held by EBT 3,184 7,602
Group cash and cash equivalent balances 208,209 209,151
211,393 216,753
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits held by the Group that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash. 
The carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value. 
At 30 June 2016 segregated deposit amounts held by the Group on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority amounted to £6,953 million (2015: £5,499 million). In addition there were currency service cash accounts held on behalf of 
clients not governed by the client money rules of £18 million (2015: £12m). The client retains the beneficial interest in both these deposits and cash 
accounts and accordingly they are not included in the balance sheet of the Group. 
19. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Deferred tax assets arise because of temporary timing differences only. The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements 
thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax has been recognised at 20%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date. 
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£’000
Share-based 
payments
£’000
Other deductible 
temporary 
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 July 2014 145 5,240 1,365 6,750
Credit / (charge) to income 80 83 (203) (40)
Charge to equity - (592) - (592)
At 30 June 2015 225 4,731 1,162 6,118
Charge to income - (259) (1,129) (1,388)
Charge to equity - (1,955) - (1,955)
At 30 June 2016 225 2,517 33 2,775 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Financial liabilities:
Trade payables 556,754 362,808
Social security and other taxes 7,404 9,692
Other payables 3,888 12,176
568,046 384,676
Non-financial liabilities:
Accruals and deferred income 13,639 12,586
581,685 397,262
In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties totalling £555.5 million 
(2015: £361.9 million) are included in trade payables. As stated in Note 17 above, where we have a legal right of offset and the ability and intention 
to settle net, trade payable balances have been presented net. The gross amount of trade payables is £712.6 million and the gross amount offset 
in the balance sheet with trade receivables is £157.2 million. There are no balances where there is a legal right of offset but not a right of offset in 
accordance with accounting standards, and no collateral has been posted for the balances that have been offset.
Other payables principally comprise amounts owed to clients as a loyalty bonus and to staff as a bonus. Accruals and deferred income principally 
comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and revenue received but not yet earned on Group pension schemes where an ongoing service 
is still being provided. 
21. PROVISIONS 
£’000
Included within non-current liabilities - Property costs
At 1 July 2014 247
Utilised during the year (15)
At 30 June 2015 232
Charged during the year 255
At 30 June 2016 487
The provision on property-related costs represents the Group’s future committed lease payments on non-cancellable leases and other contractual 
obligations that arise on the surrendering of operating leases. These property provisions are not expected to be fully utilised until 2026.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121
22. SHARE CAPITAL
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Authorised:
525,000,000 (2015: 525,000,000) ordinary shares of 0.4p each 2,100 2,100
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 0.4p each 1,897 1,897
No. of shares No. of shares
Issued and fully paid:
Number of ordinary shares of 0.4p each 474,318,625 474,318,625
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
23. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£’000
Profit for the year after tax 177,256 157,249
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (629) (987)
Income tax expense 41,623 41,789
Depreciation of plant and equipment 3,537 3,279
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,678 1,101
Share-based payment expense 2,525 2,109
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 255 (47)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 226,245 204,493
Increase in receivables (205,308) (107,842)
Increase in payables 184,423 116,340
Cash generated from operations 205,360 212,991 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122
24. COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments – as lessee
Year ended 
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015 
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating lease recognised as an expense in the year 2,440 2,433
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under the remaining term of non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Within one year 2,835 2,934
In the second to fifth years inclusive 11,234 11,260
After five years 14,692 17,500
Total minimum lease payments 28,761 31,694
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties. The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable 
operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation values and renewal rights.
Capital commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group had capital commitments of £1,064,000 (2015: £1,567,000) for IT equipment. 
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group seeks to facilitate significant equity ownership by employees, principally through schemes which encourage and assist the purchase of 
the Company’s shares. 
The Group operates three share option and share award plans: the Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”), the Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) and the Hargreaves Lansdown Company Share Option Scheme (the “Executive Option Scheme”).
Awards granted under the Employee SAYE scheme vest over three or five years. Awards granted under the Employee Share Incentive Plan vest over 
a three-year period. Awards granted under the Executive Option Scheme vest between nil and a maximum of ten years. Options are exercisable 
at a price equal to the market value of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. There are currently no performance conditions attached to any 
options granted under any of the schemes, although options are forfeited (in most circumstances) if the employee leaves the Group before the 
options vest. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123
Details of the share options and share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Executive Option Scheme
Outstanding at beginning of the year 4,970,017 676.8 5,020,372 598.0
Granted during the year 1,540,174 1,162.4 1,195,665 971.8
Exercised during the year (2,143,832) 475.3 (721,998) 491.1
Forfeited during the year (177,065) 976.3 (524,022) 851.5
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,189,294 945.8 4,970,017 676.8
Exercisable at the end of the year 277,418 566.0 587,680 386.2
Year ended 
30 June 2016
Year ended 
30 June 2015
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
exercise price
Pence
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
exercise price
Pence
SIP
Outstanding at beginning of the year 52,500 23.5 58,387 23.5
Exercised during the year (525) 23.5 (5,887) 23.5
Outstanding at the end of the year 51,975 23.5 52,500 23.5
Exercisable at the end of the year 51,975 23.5 52,500 23.5
SAYE
Outstanding at beginning of the year 1,196,640 650.6 1,273,555 506.9
Granted during the year 228,955 1,013.6 366,104 958.0
Exercised during the year (97,950) 473.3 (295,410) 270.5
Forfeited during the year (80,301) 751.0 (147,609) 932.3
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,247,344 712.2 1,196,640 650.6
Exercisable at the end of the year 19,487 606.1 7,231 268.3
The weighted average market share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1,297.65 pence (2015: 1,156.16 pence). HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED) 
The share options outstanding at the end of each year have exercise prices and expected remaining lives as follows: 
Year ended 
30 June 2016
Year ended 
30 June 2015
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
expected 
remaining life
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
expected 
remaining life
Options exercise price range (pence)
0.0 39,300 0.4 years - 0 years
23.5 51,975 0 years 52,500 0 years
195.4 33,015 0 years 113,540 0 years
268.3 - 0 years 7,231 0 years
347.2 - 0 years 82,780 0 years
365.0 528,114 0.7 years 560,999 1.7 years
388.8 98,903 0 years 953,289 0.2 years
447.6 - 0 years 400,000 0 years
451.9 514,015 0.2 years 600,798 1.2 years
477.1 1,293 0 years 80,421 0.7 years
595.0 54,606 0 years 212,897 0.7 years
606.3 19,792 0 years 69,272 0.7 years
631.5 408,500 1.3 years 443,500 2.3 years
687.0 - 0 years 360,000 0.3 years
698.6 81,887 1.7 years 91,629 2.7 years
888.1 38,007 0.6 years 45,495 1.6 years
931.8 800,438 2.3 years 865,438 3.3 years
958.0 329,947 3.8 years 366,104 4.8 years
980.0 291,000 2.3 years 306,000 4.3 years
1,028.0 244,915 2.8 years - 0 years
1,126.0 159,407 3.7 years 166,071 4.7 years
1,143.0 61,188 2.8 years 90,256 3.8 years
1,153.0 74,407 2.3 years - -
1,201.0 716,967 3.1 years - -
1,238.1 50,937 1.0 years 50,937 2.0 years
1,242.0 540,000 2.3 years - 0 years
1,250.4 50,000 2.7 years - 0 years
1,256.0 50,000 2.7 years - -
1,329.0 250,000 0.6 years 300,000 1.6 years
5,488,613 1.5 years 6,219,157 1.0 years HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year ended 30 June 2016 and the year ended 30 June 2015 has been estimated by 
the Black-Scholes methodology and the principal assumptions required by the methodology were as follows:
At 30 June 2016 At 30 June 2015
Weighted average share price 1,291.05p 1,081.21p
Expected dividend yields 2.67% 3.43%
SAYE
Weighted average exercise price 1,028.00p 958.00p
Expected volatility 29% 34%
Risk-free rate 0.48% 1.04%
Expected life 3 years 5 years
Executive scheme
Weighted average exercise price 1,185.11p 971.78p
Expected volatility 30% 31%
Risk-free rate 1.20% 1.29%
Expected life 3.8 years 4.1 years
The expected volatility   
The expected Hargreaves Lansdown Plc share price volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price since 
flotation in May 2007.
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price existed for the 
shares. The share price of share option awards granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market value agreed with HM Revenue 
& Customs using an earnings multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies. Similarly, share price volatility was estimated as the 
average of the volatility experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based 
on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. Since 15 May 2007, a 
quoted market price has been available for the Company’s shares. 
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions as shown in Note 7.
26. EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 6 September 2016 the Directors proposed a second interim ordinary dividend payment of 16.30 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend 
of 9.90 pence per ordinary share, payable on 28 September 2016 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 September 2016 
as detailed in Note 10.  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126
27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and with its Directors and members of the Executive Committee (the “key 
management personnel”). Transactions between the Company and its key management personnel are disclosed below. Details of transactions 
between the Company and other related parties are also disclosed below.   
 
Trading transactions
The Company entered into the following transactions with Directors within the Hargreaves Lansdown Group and related parties who are not 
members of the Group:
During the years ended 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 the Company has been party to a lease with P K Hargreaves, a Director until 14 April 2015, 
for rental of the old head office premises at Kendal House. A ten-year lease was signed on 6 April 2011 for a rental of part of the building, to be used 
for disaster recovery purposes at a market rate rent of £105,000 per annum. No amount was outstanding at either year-end. 
In the prior year the Company settled certain personal expenses on behalf of one Director, all of which were subject to subsequent reimbursement 
from the Director. No amount was outstanding as at 30 June 2015 and this has not occurred throughout the year ending 30 June 2016.
On 7 November 2014, the Group agreed to purchase 30 shares in its subsidiary, Library Information Services Ltd (LIS), in an arm’s length 
transaction; increasing the Group’s share-holding from 75% to 78%. The shares were purchased from Stuart Louden the founder Director of LIS 
and currently the only other shareholder, who is an employee of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. The price paid per share was 
£35,405. There is no readily available market for these shares and hence a valuation was arrived at based on a multiple of operating profit. The 
Directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc deemed this to be a fair price in the circumstances. The total amount paid was £1,062,150 and this was 
settled in cash on 17 December 2014. 
During the years ended 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 the Group has provided a range of investment services in the normal course of business to 
shareholders on normal third party business terms. Directors and staff are eligible for a slight discount on some of the services provided
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group, being those personnel who were either a member of the Board of a Group 
company or a member of the Executive Committee during the relevant year shown below, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories 
specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. 
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 6,403 5,787
Post-employment benefits 341 378
Termination benefits 317 183
Share-based payments 1,163 924
8,224 7,272
In addition to the amounts above, seven key management personnel (2015: three) received gains of £6,662,692 (2015: £3,685,000) as a result of 
exercising share options. During the year awards under the long- term incentive schemes were made to nine key management personnel (2015: nine).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127
Included within the previous table are the following amounts paid to Directors of the Company who served during the relevant year. Full details of 
Directors’ remuneration including numbers of shares exercised are shown in the Remuneration Committee report. 
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,814 1,723
Post-employment benefits 42 83
Termination benefits - 183
Share-based payments 460 170
3,316 2,159
In addition to the amounts above, Directors of the Company received gains £415,857 relating to the exercise of share options (2015: £nil).
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Emoluments of the highest paid Director 2,042* 1,392
No. No.
Number of Directors who exercised share options during the year 1 -
Number of Directors who were members of money purchase pension schemes 2 2
* The highest paid Director was the Chief Executive Officer and full details of his emoluments can be found in the audited “Remuneration payable” 
table on page 69 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Any amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received in respect of 
amounts outstanding. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties. 
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values. Market values have been used to 
determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets where there is a quoted market price. Investments in equity instruments which do not 
have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost. 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Quoted prices 
for similar 
instruments 
£’000
Directly observable 
market inputs other 
than Level 1 inputs
£’000
Inputs not based 
on observable 
market data
£’000 £’000
At 30 June 2016
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 730 - - 730
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 264 264
730 - 264 994
At 30 June 2015
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 645 - - 645
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 264 264
645 - 264 909
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no reduction in Level 3 assets during the year (2015: £nil). HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments
(a)  Financial risk management
 Financial assets principally comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and current asset listed and unlisted investments. 
Financial liabilities comprise certain provisions and trade and other payables. The main risks arising from financial instruments are market risk 
(including interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk), liquidity risk, and credit risk. Each of these risks is discussed in detail below. 
 The Group monitors financial risks on a consolidated basis. Hargreaves Lansdown’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic 
objectives and good corporate practice. No hedging transactions have taken place during the years presented. The Group has designed a 
framework to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the Directors have in place risk management practices appropriate to a listed 
company. The management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board. 
(b)  Market risk
–  Interest rate risk
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest-bearing assets. There is an exposure to 
interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business. At 30 June 2016 the value of financial instruments on the Group 
balance sheet exposed to interest rate risk was £211.39 million (2015: £216.75 million) comprising cash and cash equivalents. A 50bps (0.5%) 
move in interest rates, in isolation, would impact investment income by c. £0.5 million per annum. This impact, after taking into account the 
corresponding increase/decrease in the Group’s tax charge, would lead to a change in retained profit for the year. This exposure is continually 
monitored to ensure that the Group is maximising its interest earning potential within accepted liquidity and credit constraints. The Group has 
no external borrowings and as such is not exposed to interest rate or refinancing risk on borrowings. Cash at bank earns interest at floating 
rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are also made for varying periods of between one day and 13 months depending 
on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective fixed term deposit rates. 
 As a source of revenue is based on the value of client cash under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to interest rate risk on 
cash balances held for clients. These balances are not on the Group balance sheet but amounted to £6,953 million (2015: £5,392 million). 
–  Foreign exchange translation and transaction risk
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates. With substantially 
all of the Group’s businesses located within the UK, and therefore with minimal net assets and transactions of the Group denominated in foreign 
currencies, the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange translation or transaction risk and as such does not hedge any foreign current 
assets or liabilities. The Group deals in foreign currencies on a matched basis on behalf of clients, limiting foreign exchange exposure. Given the 
limited nature of transactions and assets involving foreign currencies no sensitivity analysis has been conducted as the impact would be minimal.
–  Price risk
 Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts on the profitability of the Group as a result of an asset not meeting 
its expected value. The Group is exposed to price risk on corporate investments held on the Group balance sheet. At 30 June 2016, the fair 
value of investments recognised on the Group balance sheet was £994,000 (2015: £909,000). A 20% move in equity prices, in isolation, 
would not have a material impact on the Group balance sheet or results.
 
 As a main source of revenue is based on the value of client Assets Under Administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to security price 
risk on investments held for clients. These assets are not on the Group balance sheet. The risk of lower revenues is partially mitigated by asset 
class diversification. The Group does not hedge its revenue exposure to movements in the value of client assets arising from these risks, and so 
the interests of the Group are aligned to those of its clients.
 In addition, the Group acts as a private client investment manager, unit trust manager and agency stockbroker on a matched basis so its 
exposure to market price movements in this capacity is limited to when there is a trade mismatch or error, or if one matched counterparty fails 
to fulfil its obligations. The impact of these risks is minimised by limits and monitoring controls.
 (c) Liquidity risk
 The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, namely the risk that it may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. The Group is 
highly cash generative and holds significant liquid assets. The Group actively maintains a proportion of cash balances on short-term deposit to 
ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds for operations. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129
The table below analyses the maturities of the undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities of the Group based on the remaining period to 
the contractual maturity date at the balance sheet date.
0-3 months
£’000
3-6 months
£’000
6-12 months
£’000
Over 1 year
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2016
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 556,754 - - - 556,754
Other payables 2,449 - - 1,439 3,888
559,203 - - 1,439 560,642
At 30 June 2015
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 362,808 - - - 362,808
Other payables 11,793 - - 383 12,176
374.601 - - 383 374,984
(d) Credit risks 
 The Group’s credit risk is spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
 
 Within the Group’s Stockbroking operation, the Group is exposed to credit risk from counterparties to a securities transaction during the period 
between the trade date and the settlement date. This period is generally three business days. The Group has credit exposure that extends 
beyond the original settlement date if the counterparty fails either to make payment or to deliver securities. These transactions are with 
financial institutions and clients. Settlement risk is substantially mitigated as a result of the delivery versus payment mechanism whereby, if a 
counterparty fails to make payment, the securities would not be delivered to the counterparty. In that instance, the securities could be sold in 
the market and therefore the economic substance of the transaction is that securities serve as collateral in the case of delivery versus payment 
trade debtors. As a result, the risk exposure is effectively to an adverse movement in market prices between the time of trade and settlement. 
 Other credit risk within the Group is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and the majority represents balances due from other 
regulated financial institutions where there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and institution. Credit risk is therefore considered to 
be limited. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made 
where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
 Cash is held with UK licensed banks. The credit risk on liquid funds is minimised because the counterparties are banks with strong credit-ratings 
assigned by international credit-rating agencies. The Group takes a conservative approach to treasury management and selection of banking 
counterparties, and carries out regular reviews of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings.   
 
 As at the balance sheet date, no financial assets were individually determined to be impaired.
 The following table discloses the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets:
At 30 June 2016
£’000
At 30 June 2015
£’000
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
Cash and cash equivalents 211,393 216,753
Trade and other receivables 576,961 382,263
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 730 645
Available-for-sale financial assets:
Financial investments 264 264
789,348 599,925 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
The following table contains an analysis of financial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date. An asset is past due when 
the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Neither impaired 
nor past due
£’000
0-3 months 
past due
£’000
3-6 months 
past due
£’000
6-12 months 
past due
£’000
Over 12 months 
past due
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2016
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 574,183 923 809 395 92 576,402
Other receivables 559 - - - - 559
574,742 923 809 395 92 576,961
Held-for-trading assets 730 - - - - 730
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - - - 264
575,736 923 809 395 92 577,955
At 30 June 2015
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 378,414 1,559 518 281 31 380,803
Other receivables 1,460 - - - - 1,460
379,874 1,559 518 281 31 382,263
Held-for-trading assets 645 - - - - 645
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - - - 264
380,783 1,559 518 281 31 383,172
During the year we have provided for an amount of £8k (2015: £277K) in respect of receivables we do not expect to recover. At the balance sheet 
date, £512k (2015: £504K) of receivables are impaired, all of which have been provided for in full. As a result, the carrying amount of impaired 
receivables is nil (2015: nil). 
The table on the next page shows the credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired using the following counterparty 
gradings:
•  Financial institutions
 In respect of trade receivables, £159.3 million (2015: £90.2 million) is due from financial institutions regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in the course of settlement as a result of daily trading and £0.4 million (2015: £9.0 million) relates to revenue items due from 
financial institutions regulated by the FCA. 
•  Individuals
 In respect of trade receivables, the balance is related to amounts due from individual clients in the course of settlement as a result of daily 
trading.  
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
131
The table below shows the credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired.
Financial 
institutions
£’000
Corporate 
clients
£’000
Individuals
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2016
Trade receivables 159,657 210 414,316 574,183
Other receivables 559 - - 559
Held-for-trading assets 730 - - 730
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - 264
161,210 210 414,316 575,736
At 30 June 2015
Trade receivables 99,191 169 279,054 378,414
Other receivables 1,460 - - 1,460
Held-for-trading assets 645 - - 645
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - 264
101,560 169 279,054 380,783
Capital management
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are i) to safeguard the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; ii) to maintain a strong 
capital base and utilise it efficiently to support the development of its business; and iii) to comply with the regulatory capital requirements set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group’s management and Board. 
Regulatory capital is determined in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive prescribed in the UK by the FCA. The 
Directive requires continual assessment of the Group’s risks in order to ensure that the higher of Pillar 1 (Minimum Capital Requirements) and Pillar 
2 (Supervisory Review) requirements is met. 
Pillar 2 requires firms to assess firm-specific risks not covered by the formulaic requirements of Pillar 1 and, where necessary, maintain additional 
capital - the objective being to ensure that the regulated firms have adequate capital to enable them to manage their risks. The Group completes 
its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) under Pillar 2, which is a 
forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major risks, such as a significant market downturn, and identifying mitigating action. The 
ICAAP covers current as well as projected capital requirements, and is used to manage regulatory capital. 
The Group manages its retained earnings, share capital and share premium which total £256.5 million as at 30 June 2016 (2015 £236.9m). Surplus 
regulatory capital was maintained throughout the year at both a consolidated Group level, as well as at an individual regulated entity level. Under 
the requirements of Pillar 3 (Disclosure), the Group is required to disclose regulatory capital information, and has done so by making the disclosures 
available in the Group’s website at http://www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/pillar-3-disclosures. 
  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
132
29. INTEREST IN UNCONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES
The Group has determined that investment funds that it manages are structured entities. Structured entities include entities that are designed so 
that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when the relevant activities are directed by 
means of a contractual relationship. As the Group directs the investing activities of the ten Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds through its 
investment management agreements with them, it considers them to be structured entities. The Group holds interests in these funds through the 
receipt of management fees, together with ownership interests that it holds. Investments in the funds have been designated at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL). 
Where the Group has an equity holding in the funds, the maximum exposure to loss relates to future management fees should the market value of 
the funds decrease, plus the fair value of the Group’s investment in that fund.
Structured entities with direct holdings
Direct investments in structured entities relate to box positions held by Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd and through portfolios held in 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd which mimic holdings in the Portfolio Management Service and HL Portfolio+.
The table below shows the details of unconsolidated structured entities in which the Group has direct holdings as at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 
2015.
Type Number of funds Net AUM of  
funds £’000
Financial assets at 
FVTPL £’000
Annual management  
charge £’000
Annual management charge 
receivable as at 30 June 
2016/2015 £’000
2016 Unit Trust 10 6,290,511 266 44,087 3,810
2015 Unit Trust 8 5,551,000 268 36,520 3,528
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
133
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2016
Note
At 30 June 2016
£’000
At 30 June 2015 
(Restated)
£’000
At 1 July 2014
(Restated)
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 4 18,188 15,664 12,488
Other intangible assets 2 4 -
Deferred tax assets 5 8 19 21
18,198 15,687 12,509
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6 82,357 118 192
Cash and cash equivalents 7 95,162 127,133 188,172
Current tax asset 92 9 -
177,611 127,260 188,364
Total assets 195,809 142,947 200,873
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 8 19,578 2,990 64,577
Current tax liabilities - - 140
19,578 2,990 64,717
Net current assets 158,033 124,270 123,647
Total liabilities 19,578 2,990 64,717
Net assets 176,231 139,957 136,156
EQUITY
Share capital 10 1,897 1,897 1,897
Share premium account 11 8 8 8
Capital redemption reserve 11 12 12 12
Retained earnings 11 174,314 138,040 134,239
Total equity 176,231 139,957 136,156
The financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc, registered number 02122142, on pages 133 to 141 were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 6 September 2016.
Ian Gorham         Christopher Hill 
Chief Executive       Chief Financial Officer HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
134
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2016
Share capital
£’000
Share premium 
account
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
 
Total 
Equity
£’000
At 1 July 2014 (restated) 1,897 8 12 134,239 136,156
Profit and total comprehensive income - - - 153,763 153,763
Increase in investment in subsidiaries - - - 2,109 2,109
Dividend paid - - - (152,071) (152,071)
At 30 June 2015 (restated) 1,897 8 12 138,040 139,957
Profit and total comprehensive income - - - 191,932 191,932
Increase in investment in subsidiaries - - - 2,524 2,524
Dividend paid - - - (158,182) (158,182)
At 30 June 2016 1,897 8 12 174,314 176,231
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares.
Details of the Company’s dividends are as set out in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 30 June 2016
Note
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Net cash from operating activities
Cash (used in)/ from operations 9 (66,316) (61,600)
Income tax rebate/(paid) 46 (175)
Net cash (used in)/ from operating activities (66,270) (61,775)
Investing activities
Interest received 77 217
Dividends received from investments 192,404 153,663
Purchase of intangible fixed assets - (6)
Net cash generated from investing activities 192,481 153,874
Financing activities
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (158,182) (152,071)
Purchase of investment in subsidiary - (1,067)
Net cash used in financing activities (158,182) (153,138)
Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (31,971) (61,039)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 127,133 188,172
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 7 95,162 127,133
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
135
1. General information
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 whose 
shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is 1 College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol BS1 
5HL, United Kingdom. The Company is the parent company of the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Group, and the nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are set out in the Operating and Financial Review. 
The Company financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Company operates. 
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union (EU), and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors believe that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the date the financial statements are adopted. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. Accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current 
and prior financial year.
Prior period restatement, correction of error in accounting for share based payments
The Company grants its shares to employees of its subsidiaries through a number of share based payment schemes. The Company does not charge 
its subsidiaries for the benefit it is providing to the subsidiaries’ employees, and so it is providing a capital contribution to the subsidiaries. The 
Company should account for this capital contribution as an increase to investment in subsidiaries, with a corresponding increase in equity. The 
capital contribution was not accounted for in previous periods. The error has been corrected by restating each of the affected financial statement 
line items for the prior periods as follows:
30 June 2015
£’000
Increase
£’000
30 June 2015 
(restated)
£’000
30 June 2014
£’000
Increase
£’000
1 July 2014 
(restated)
£’000
Balance sheet (extract)
Investments in subsidiaries 3,219 12,445 15,664 2,152 10,336 12,488
Net Assets 127,512 12,445 139,957 125,820 10,336 136,156
Retained earnings 125,595 12,445 138,040 123,903 10,336 134,239
Total Equity 127,512 12,445 139,957 125,820 10,336 136,156
2. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those of the Group which are set out in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, 
except that it has no policy in respect of consolidation and investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost, less any provisions for 
impairment.
3. Profit for the year
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or statement of comprehensive income is presented for the 
Company. The Company’s profit after tax for the year was £191,932,000 (2015: £153,763,000).
The Auditors’ remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
136
4. Investment in subsidiaries
Year ended  
30 June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015 
(restated)
£’000
Investments in subsidiaries
At beginning of year 15,664 12,488
Increase in investment in subsidiaries 2,524 2,109
Purchases - 1,067
At end of year 18,188 15,664
Comprising:
Non-current investments - Investments in subsidiaries valued at cost less impairment 18,188 15,664
During the prior year the Company increased its ownership in its subsidiary Library Information Services Ltd to 78% following a purchase of 3% of 
its shares.
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in the UK is shown below. Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost, 
which is the fair value of the consideration paid. All subsidiaries have one ordinary class of share only and unless disclosed otherwise below all 
shares are held by Hargreaves Lansdown plc. 
Subsidiary 
Company Name
Company 
Registered 
Number
Company Purpose/
Function
Shares Held 
by HL plc
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Ltd 
(formerly Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct)
03509545 Advisory services 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd 01896481 Unit trust and equity broking, investment fund 
management, life and pensions consultancy
100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd 02707155 Unit trust management 100%
Library Information Services Ltd 02264702 Data provider 78%
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Ltd 01822701 Stockbroking 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown (Nominees) Ltd 01824226 Nominee services 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Insurance Brokers Ltd 01874058 Dormant company * 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Investment Management Ltd
(100% shares held by Hargreaves Lansdown Fund 
Managers Ltd)
04021749 Dormant company * 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Savings Ltd
(formerly Hargreaves Lansdown IT & Administration 
Services)
08355960 Cash services 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Ltd
(100% shares held by Hargreaves Lansdown 
Advisory Services Ltd)
03977269 Dormant company * 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Trustees Ltd 01733872 Dormant company * 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Ltd 03398693 Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust * 100%
Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Ltd 05794815 Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan * 100%
* Exempt from the requirements to prepare, file and audit individual financial statements under s479A of Companies Act 2006.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
137
5. Deferred tax assets
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax has 
been recognised at 20%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date. 
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£’000
General  
Provisions
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 July 2014 11 10 21
Charge to income (1) (1) (2)
At 30 June 2015 10 9 19
Charge to income (2) (9) (11)
At 30 June 2016 8 - 8
6. Trade and other receivables
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Financial assets:
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT 82,270 60
Other receivables 13 -
82,283 60
Non-financial assets:
Prepayments and accrued income 74 58
82,357 118
7. Cash and cash equivalents
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents:
Group cash and cash equivalent balances 95,162 127,133
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and institutional cash funds with near-instant access held by the Group. 
No disclosures for financial instruments have been made in respect of the Company as the only significant financial instruments held by the 
Company are cash and cash balances as shown above. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
138
8. Trade and other payables
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Financial liabilities:
Amounts payable to subsidiaries 19,246 2,934
Social security and other taxes 6 5
Other payables 43 34
19,295 2,973
Non-financial liabilities:
Accruals and deferred income 283 17
19,578 2,990
Amounts payable to subsidiaries comprise short-term borrowing from subsidiaries, repayable on demand. The fair values of amounts owed to 
subsidiaries are equal to their carrying amounts.
9. Notes to the Company statements of cash flows
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2015
£’000
Profit for the year after tax 191,932 153,764
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (192,481) (153,880)
Income tax expense (118) 28
Amortisation of intangible assets 2 1
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (665) (87)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables (82,239) 74
Increase/(decrease) in payables 16,588 (61,587)
Cash used in operations (66,316) (61,600)
10. Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are as set out in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Reserves
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued and was unchanged at 
£8,000 throughout the 2015 and 2016 financial years. 
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares and was unchanged at £12,000 throughout 
the 2015 and 2016 financial years. 
Details of the movements in Retained Earnings are set out in the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity. 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
139
12. Related party transactions
The key management personnel of the Group and the Company are the same. The relevant disclosures are given in Note 27 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
The Company has nil employees (2015: nil).
As discussed in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group provides share-based compensation to employees through a number 
of schemes; these are all in relation to shares in the Company. The cost of providing those benefits to the employees of the subsidiaries is not 
charged to the subsidiaries. As a result, the Company provides a capital contribution to its subsidiaries in respect of this schemes.
The Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and the Employee Benefit Trust, which are related parties.
Year ended 30 
June 2016
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2015 
(restated)
£’000
Dividends received from subsidiaries 192,404 153,663
Management charges to subsidiaries 716 716
Capital contribution to subsidiaries 2,524 2,109
Amount owed to related parties at 30 June 19,246 2,934
Amounts owed by related parties at 30 June 82,270 60
Any amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received in respect of 
amounts outstanding. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties.
13. Events after balance sheet date
Events after balance sheet date are shown in Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements on page 125. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
140
14. Financial instruments 
Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Group’s policy on capital management, its exposure to financial risks and its policies 
and processes to manage those risks. There are financial instruments in the Company made up of amounts receivable from subsidiaries and the 
Employee Benefit Trust and amounts payable to subsidiaries. The nature and extent of risks arising from these financial instruments are as follows:
(a) Liquidity risk
The Company is exposed to liquidity risk, namely the risk that it may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. The payment 
obligations primarily relate to amounts payable to subsidiaries which are more than offset by the amounts owed from subsidiaries. In addition the 
Company holds significant cash balances on short-term deposit to ensure that it has sufficient available funds to meet its obligations and fund its 
operations.
The table below analyses the maturities of the undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities of the Company based on the remaining 
period to contractual maturity date at the balance sheet date.
0-3 months 
£’000
3-6 months 
£’000
6-12 months 
£’000
Over 1 year
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2016
Included within Trade and other payables:
Amounts payable to subsidiaries 19,246 - - - 19,246
Other payables 43 - - - 43
19,289 - - - 19,289
At 30 June 2015
Included within Trade and other payables:
Amounts payable to subsidiaries 2,934 - - - 2,934
Other payables 34 - - - 34
2,968 - - - 2,968
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform its financial obligations, resulting in financial loss, however, the amounts owed to the 
Company are primarily from its own subsidiaries. Given the profitability and net assets of the subsidiaries, credit risk is felt to be minimal.
As per the wider Group cash is held with UK licensed banks. The credit risk on liquid funds is minimised because the counterparties are banks 
with strong credit-ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. The Group takes a conservative approach to treasury management and 
selection of banking counterparties, and carries out regular reviews of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings.
As at the balance sheet date, no financial assets were individually determined to be impaired.
The following table discloses the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets.
At 30 June 2016
£’000
At 30 June 2015
£’000
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
Cash and cash equivalents 95,162 127,133
Included within Trade and other receivables:
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT 82,270 60
Other receivables 13 -
177,445 127,193
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
141
The following table contains an analysis of financial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date. An asset past due is when 
the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Neither impaired 
nor past due
£’000
0-3 months 
past due
£’000
3-6 months 
past due
£’000
6-12 months 
past due
£’000
Over 12 months 
past
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2016
Included within Trade and other 
receivables:
Amounts receivable from 
subsidiaries and EBT
82,270 - - - - 82,270
Other receivables 13 - - - - 13
82,283 - - - - 82,283
At 30 June 2015
Included within Trade and other 
receivables:
Amounts receivable from 
subsidiaries and EBT
60 - - - - 60
Other receivables - - - - - -
60 - - - - 60 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
142
DIRECTORS, COMPANY SECRETARY,  
ADVISERS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Ian Gorham
Christopher Hill
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Christopher Barling
Mike Evans
Shirley Garrood
Stephen Robertson
Jayne Styles 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Judy Matthews
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , Bristol
SOLICITORS
Osborne Clarke LLP , Bristol
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Lloyds Bank plc, Bristol
BROKERS
Barclays 
Numis Securities Limited
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
REGISTERED OFFICE
1 College Square South
Anchor Road
Bristol
BS1 5HL
WEBSITE
www.hl.co.uk 
COMPANY NUMBER
02122142 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
143
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Revenue 388,333 395,137 358,393 292,403 238,741
Commission payable / loyalty bonus (61,797) (100,949) (66,526) (23,205) (16,356)
Net revenue * 326,536 294,188 291,867 269,198 222,385
Operating costs (102,792) (91,720) (83,014) (77,270) (66,999)
Underlying operating profit 223,744 202,468 208,853 191,928 155,386
FSCS costs ** (5,494) (4,417) (832) 532 (4,774)
Operating profit 218,250 198,051 208,021 192,460 150,612
Investment revenue 629 987 1,768 2,879 2,229
Other (losses) and gains - - (3) (155) (2)
Profit before tax 218,879 199,038 209,786 195,184 152,839
Tax (41,623) (41,789) (47,052) (46,195) (39,520)
Profit after tax 177,256 157,249 162,734 148,989 113,319
Non-controlling interests (361) (585) (643) (598) (359)
Profit for the financial year attributable to 
owners of the parent company 176,895 156,664 162,091 148,391 112,960
Equity shareholders’ funds 253,698 236,566 227,753 196,622 156,994
Weighted average number of shares for the 
purposes of diluted EPS (million) 474.72 473.72 474.37 471.92 469.42
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Equity dividends per share paid during year 33.50 32.30 30.29 23.79 19.47
Basic earnings per share 37.4 33.2 34.5 31.7 24.2
Diluted earnings per share 37.3 33.1 34.2 31.4 24.1
* Following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review in March 2014, the gross reported revenue was boosted by a new revenue stream 
and at the same time loyalty bonuses paid to Vantage clients were significantly increased. In order to better compare revenue performance across 
the five years above, net revenue which is total revenue less the commission payable and loyalty bonus has been shown. 
** Relates to the operating costs of the running of and the levies relating to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
144
GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Within the Report and Financial Statements various Alternative Financial Performance Measures are referred to, which are non-GAAP (Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice) measures. They are used in order to provide a better understanding of the performance of the Group and the table 
below states those which have been used, how they have been calculated and why they have been used.
Measure Calculation Why we use this measure
Cash conversion 
ratio (%)
The operating cash flows for the year divided by the operating 
profits for the year.
Provides a measure of the efficiency with which profits are 
converted into cash.
Discretionary 
recurring net 
revenue (%)
The total value of the annual management charge earned on the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds and the management 
fees and ongoing adviser charges for the PMS service divided by 
the total discretionary net revenue.
Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings. We believe 
recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is 
of higher quality.
Dividend pay-out 
ratio (%)
The total dividend per share divided by the basic Earnings Per 
Share (EPS) for a financial year.
Provides a measure of the level of profits paid out to shareholders 
and the level retained in the business.
Dividend per 
share (pence per 
share)
Total dividend payable relating to a financial year divided by the 
total number of shares eligible to receive a dividend. Note ordinary 
shares held in the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust 
have agreed to waive all dividends (see Note 6 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
Dividend per share is pertinent information to shareholders 
and investors and provides them with the ability to assess the 
dividend yield of the Hargreaves Lansdown PLC shares.
Operating Costs The costs per the Income Statement excluding commission 
payable (i.e. the aggregate of staff costs, other operating costs 
and FSCS costs).
In light of the transitional period relating to the Retail Distribution 
Review (see Net Revenue below) and the impact this had on 
commission payable in the form of loyalty bonuses, this measure 
of Operating Costs provides a more useful comparative measure 
over time.
Net revenue (£)
(See Income 
Statement on 
page 100 for the 
reconciliation of 
net revenue)
Total revenue less commission payments which are primarily 
loyalty bonuses paid to Vantage clients.
Because of the changes brought about to the client charging 
structure by the Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”) there was 
a transitional period (from 1 March 2014 to 1 April 2016). From 
1 March 2014 revenue was increased as Hargreaves Lansdown 
earned both a new platform fee from clients and the existing 
renewal commission from the Fund Management Groups based 
on the value of funds held by clients. At the same time the loyalty 
bonus paid to clients was significantly increased on the pre-RDR 
funds to largely mitigate the impact of the new platform fee. 
In order to aid comparability during the period of transition to 
1 April 2016 the net revenue measure became the most useful 
comparative measure of revenue as it better reflected the 
underlying income relating to funds held by clients.
Net revenue per 
employee (£)
Total net revenue divided by the average number of employees 
(excluding directors) for the year.
Provides a measure of staff productivity and the scalability of the 
business model.
Percentage of 
recurring net 
revenue (%)
The total value of renewal commission (after deducting loyalty 
bonuses), platform fees, management fees and interest earned on 
client money divided by the total net revenue.
Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings. We believe 
recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is 
of higher quality.
Percentage of 
Vantage recurring 
net revenue (%)
The total value of Vantage renewal commission (after deducting 
loyalty bonuses), platform fees, management fees and interest 
earned on client money divided by the total Vantage net revenue.
Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings. We believe 
recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is 
of higher quality.
Vantage net 
revenue margin 
(%)
Total Vantage net revenue divided by the average value of assets 
under administration which includes the Portfolio Management 
Services assets under management held in funds on which a 
platform fee is charged.
Provides the most comparable means of tracking, over time, the 
margin earned on the assets under administration and is used by 
management to assess business performance.
Vantage net 
revenue margin 
from cash (%)
Net revenue from cash (net interest earned on the value of client 
money held on the Vantage platform divided by the average value 
of assets under administration held as client money.
Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on 
cash held by our clients.
Vantage net 
revenue margin 
from funds (%)
Net revenue derived from funds held by clients (platform fees, 
initial commission less loyalty bonus) divided by the average 
value of assets under administration held as funds, which includes 
the Portfolio Management Services assets under management 
held in funds on which a platform fee is charged.
Provides the most comparable means of tracking, over time, the 
margin earned on funds held by our clients.
Vantage net 
revenue margin 
from shares (%)
Net revenue from shares (stockbroking commissions, 
management fees where shares are held in a SIPP or ISA, less 
the cost of dealing errors) divided by the average value of assets 
under administration held as shares.
Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on 
shares held by our clients. HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
145
DEFINITION OF TERMS
AGM Annual General Meeting
Asset retention rate Based on the monthly lost AUA as a percentage of the opening months AUA and averaging for the year
AUA Assets Under Administration is the total value of all assets administered or managed by Hargreaves Lansdown on behalf 
of its clients
AUM Assets Under Management is the total value of all assets managed by Hargreaves Lansdown comprising our Multi-
Manager funds and assets held within PMS 
Basic EPS Basic Earnings Per Share
Board The Board of Directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc
Client retention rate Based on the monthly lost clients as a percentage of the opening months total clients and averaging for the year
Company Hargreaves Lansdown plc
CRC Energy efficiency scheme The Carbon Reduction Commitment efficiency scheme is a mandatory government scheme aimed at improving energy 
efficiency and cutting emissions in large public and private sector organisations
Corporate Vantage Our corporate wrap allows employers to offer the benefits of the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage service to employees via 
the workplace
CTF Child Trust Fund
Diluted EPS Diluted Earnings Per Share
EBT Employee Benefit Trust
FCA Financial Conduct Authority, the regulator of the UK financial services industry 
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Fund of Funds An investment strategy whereby a portfolio is created by investing in funds rather than directly into equities and other 
securities
Group Hargreaves Lansdown plc and its controlled entities
HL Hargreaves Lansdown
HL Live A software application which is designed for use on mobile phones and other portable electronic devices to allow clients 
access to their accounts and other information on the move
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
IFA Independent Financial Advisor
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
Investment Supermarket Platform A service which allows clients to buy, sell and hold a wide range of investments in one place
ISA Individual Savings Account
IT Information Technology
Loyalty Bonus A reward to customers for holding certain collective investments within the Vantage wrapper. This is paid on a regular 
basis as a percentage of qualifying assets
LTIP Long term incentive plan
Multi-Manager funds A range of funds offered by Hargreaves Lansdown which are managed under the fund of funds format
Net new business inflows Represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less cash withdrawals, cash and stock transfers out
Number of new Clients Unique number of clients holding at least one account (PMS, ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account) with a value greater 
than £100 at the year-end
Net revenue Total revenue less commission paid , which is primarily the loyalty bonus paid to clients 
Organic growth Growth in Assets Under Administration can be attributed to two main causes. The first is growth due to the appreciation 
in the value of existing assets and the second is organic growth through additional contributions HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
146
Pillar 1 and 2 capital requirements The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision set out certain capital requirements which must be met by qualifying 
financial institutions
Platforum The advisory and research business specialising in investment platforms which compiles the "Direct Platform Guide"
PMS Portfolio Management Service
RDR Retail Distribution Review
SAYE scheme Save As You Earn scheme
SIPP Self-invested Personal Pension
Treating clients fairly A central concept to the FSA's retail regulatory agenda, which aims to ensure an efficient and effective market and 
thereby help consumers achieve a fair deal
UK Corporate Governance Code A code with sets out standards for best boardroom practice with a focus on Board leadership and effectiveness, 
remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders
Vantage The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-investor platform
Year-end/financial year Our financial year starts on 1 July and ends on 30 June HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
147 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
148  HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
150
One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
Registered number 02122142
www.hl.co.uk
