 One College Square South, 
Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
www.hl.co.uk
Hargreaves Lansdown plc
Report and Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 June 2011
Registered number: 02122142
The Directors’ report and business review
Introduction                                                                             
1 Highlights                                                                            
3 Chairman’s statement                                                       
Strategic review                                                                      
4 Our services
7 Our strategy and objectives
8 Chief Executive’s review                                                    
12 Strategic priorities and progress                                      
Performance review                                                                
14 Financial review                                                                  
17 Operational review                                                            
22 Principal risks and uncertainties                                      
25 Key performance indicators                                              
26 Corporate Social Responsibility                                       
Governance                                                                              
28 Board of directors
29 Corporate governance statement
37 Directors’ report: other information
40 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial Statements                                                             
45 Directors’ responsibilities statement*
46 Independent auditor’s report
47 Consolidated income statement
47 Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income 
48 Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity
50 Consolidated and Company balance sheets
51 Statement of cash flows
52 Notes to the financial statements
75 Directors, company details, advisers
76 Five-year summary
*Forms part of the Directors’ report Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
The Directors’ report and business review
Introduction                                                                             
1 Highlights                                                                            
3 Chairman’s statement                                                       
Strategic review                                                                      
4 Our services
7 Our strategy and objectives
8 Chief Executive’s review                                                    
12 Strategic priorities and progress                                      
Performance review                                                                
14 Financial review                                                                  
17 Operational review                                                            
22 Principal risks and uncertainties                                      
25 Key performance indicators                                              
26 Corporate Social Responsibility                                       
Governance                                                                              
28 Board of directors
29 Corporate governance statement
37 Directors’ report: other information
40 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial Statements
45 Directors’ responsibilities statement*
46 Independent auditor’s report
47 Consolidated income statement
47 Consolidated and Company statements of                      
comprehensive income 
48 Consolidated and Company statements of changes      
in equity
50 Consolidated and Company balance sheets
51 Statement of cash flows
52 Notes to the financial statements
75 Directors, company details, advisers
76 Five-year summary
*Forms part of the Directors’ report
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company and
no one else. The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or
assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. This Annual
Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company. By their nature, these
statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments
to diﬀer materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements and forecasts. The forward-looking statements reﬂect the
knowledge and  information available at the date of preparation of this Annual
Report, and will not be updated during the year. Nothing in this Annual Report
should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.  Where we refer in this report to other
reports or material, such as a website address, this has been done to direct the
reader to other sources of information which may be of interest to the reader.
Such additional materials do not form part of this Report.
We are the UK’s largest direct to investor
‘investment supermarket’ with an annual
turnover in excess of £200 million.
We administer more than £24 billion of
investments in our ISA, SIPP and Investment
accounts for over 380,000 clients, and have
arranged investments for over a million clients.
We use our buying power to get clients great
deals on their investments. Our clients saved
more than £180 million on investment
charges last year. 
We provide award winning services.  96% of
our clients rated our service as good, very
good or excellent. 
We continue to invest in technology and
resources to enhance our client services. New
iPhone and Android apps, additional
stockbroking facilities, reduced tariffs and
online overseas dealing were launched in
August 2011. 
Our mission
Our mission is to help investors
make more of their investments by
providing the best information, the
best service and the best prices.
Contents Hargreaves Lansdown
at a glance
Back to contents        
Hargreaves Lansdown’s success
is built around clients, staff and
high quality service.
We have had another strong year as we focus on providing excellent service, value, and simplicity. 
Highlights
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
£207.9m 
Revenue 
2011
2010
2009
2008
£126.0m 
Proﬁt before tax 
2011
2010
2009
2008
20.0p 
Underlying diluted EPS (page 61)
2011
2010
2009
2008
18.87p 
Dividend per share 
2011
2010
2009
2008
207.9
159.0
132.8
120.3
20.0
13.9
11.0
9.0
126.0
86.3
73.1
60.9
18.87
11.88
10.10
7.80
5.2m
Number of trades dealt 
for clients in the year, 
27% increase 
380,000
Number of active clients using
our Vantage Service, a 50,000
15% increase
£24.6bn
Value of investments
administered for clients
increased by £7 .1 bn 
(a 41% increase) 
£3.5bn
Value of net new business
inflows, 6% increase 
1
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Award-winning services
Reducing the
cost of investing
We win prestigious awards every year for delivering exceptional services to clients across the financial
spectrum. We know from satisfaction surveys that 98% of clients rate our service as better or as good as
they could find elsewhere, and 96% of clients rate our services as good, very good or excellent. 
2010/2011
Best Financial Services PLC
UK Stock Market Awards 2011
Top 10 for Quality of Goods & Services
Most Admired UK Company Awards -
Management Today 
Retail Stockbroker of the Year
City A.M. Awards 
Best SIPP Provider
What Investment
Best Independent Financial Adviser
What Investment
2009/2010
Best IFA Firm
Unbiased.co.uk
Media IFA of the year
Danny Cox - Unbiased.co.uk
Best Pensions IFA
Tom McPhail - Unbiased.co.uk 
By investing through Hargreaves
Lansdown our clients saved more than
£180 million on investment charges last
year. This was achieved by cutting the cost
of the charges levied by investment fund
managers on more than 1,700 funds.
Savings up to 5.5% on initial charges can
help get investments oﬀ to a ﬂying start
and if the value of the investment grows
so will the value of the saving.  The chart
below shows the diﬀerence between a
client investing £10,680 into an
investment fund with no discount, and a
client investing through the HL Vantage
service with a saving of 5.5%.
£25,000
£20,000
£15,000
£10,000
£5,000
0
What if your fund
doubles in value?
Boosted by 
£1,174
Initial investment
Saving £587
Discount 
of 5.5%
With the extra
saving, your
investment is
actually now
worth...
£21,360
No 
discount
Although the
fund has
doubled, your
investment is
still only worth...
£20,186
Discount 
of 5.5%
You invest
£10,680. With our
savings your
initial investment
is acually worth...
£10,680
No 
discount
You invest
£10,680. With no
discount your
initial investment
is only worth...
£10,093
2
WINNER
Online/Self Invested SIPP
Hargreaves Lansdown
Technology 
Administration 
and Service Awards 
Online/Self Invested SIPP
Hargreaves Lansdown
 
 
   
Back to contents        
“I am delighted to report that the year ended 30 June 2011 was once again an excellent year for Hargreaves
Lansdown.  The Group experienced record new business, record new clients and a record increase in profits
despite many world events sapping investor confidence during our peak trading period.”
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
This financial year-end coincided with the
conclusion of 30 years since the formation
of the business on 1 July 1981. Hargreaves
Lansdown is now an established and
important part of the UK investment
scene.  During its 30 years’ existence over
one million people have placed some
business through the Group and today
380,000 investors actively use the
Hargreaves Lansdown investment
platform - Vantage.  
It is interesting to note that when surveys
are carried out amongst investors we are
regularly bestowed with major awards.
This is because we work tirelessly to
delight the people who invest through us.
The service is legendary and compares
favourably to any business in the UK but
in financial services is a leader.
Dividend
Capital adequacy requirements have
increased over the years and Hargreaves
Lansdown has always and still does retain
a healthy margin over the regulatory
requirement.  After careful review of the
company’s future cash requirements the
Board has decided to increase the second
(final) dividend and pay an ordinary
dividend of 8.41p per share (2010: 0.58p)
and an increased special dividend of
5.96p per share (2010: 1.70p) making the
total dividend for the year 18.87p per
share (2010: 11.88p). Although
Hargreaves Lansdown has many
initiatives in train, it is the Board’s view
that none require major cash investment
and given the short timeframe within
which profits turn to cash in the business
an increased dividend is appropriate.
The Board
Ian Gorham can be very pleased with 
his first year’s performance as Chief
Executive, since taking over from Peter
Hargreaves on 2 September 2010.  
Not only has his visible performance, 
i.e. the financial results, been good, but 
he has led and gained the respect of the
Executive Board to harness the effort that
has been needed to maintain our profit
record in testing economic times. 
Following Jonathan Davis’ decision to step
down as a non-executive director on 31
December 2010, the Nominations
Committee commenced a search for a
replacement non-executive director and,
following the previous successful use of our
own client list, decided to again advertise
the position to a subset of our clients. The
Committee took notice of the Davies Report
when formulating the selection criteria 
and was keen to ensure that any new
appointments sought to add diversity to the
Board. The Committee was firmly of the
view that diversity is a far wider subject
than pure gender. We hope to announce
the conclusion to this search shortly. 
Governance
It seems only yesterday that we became a
public company and now we have to
consider what extra things our investors
might require of us to position ourselves
as a FTSE 100 company. In the Corporate
Governance statement on pages 29 to 36,
we detail the steps that we have taken to
broaden our compliance with the UK
Corporate Governance Code. The results of
the Board review undertaken were positive
and confirmed that the Board and its
Committees have operated efficiently and
diligently.
Summary
I would like to express my gratitude to the
Board and all the staff for all their hard
work in producing a strong set of results in
difficult circumstances. There is no doubt
we face some interesting times ahead but
we will continue to look after our clients
well, and in so doing grow the company.
Michael Evans
Chairman
13 September 2011
59%
increase to dividends
A second (final) ordinary
dividend of 8.41 pence and 
a special dividend of 5.96
pence brings the total
dividend for the year to 18.87
pence (2010: 11.88 pence)
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
3
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more of their money throughout their life.  Over the last
year we have saved our clients more than £180 million in discounts on initial and annual charges along with
rebates paid to clients via our Loyalty Bonus. 
Our services
Vantage Service
Whether a first time investor or wanting to
improve the way that existing investments
are managed, our aim is to give our clients
all the tools, help and information they
need to make their own investment
decisions and save money. In effect we
want to help people become their own
financial adviser.
The Vantage Service allows clients to
bring all their ISAs, Pensions (SIPPs), and
funds and share accounts into one easy to
manage place. It puts them in control.
Clients can manage their investments by
telephone, post or online. By dealing with
us directly, they save money.
Timely, free investment research to
help make better investment decisions
Our research team (headed by investment
experts Mark Dampier and Lee
Gardhouse) investigate thousands of
different investments and meet hundreds
of fund managers a year. Its findings are
available free via our Wealth 150 list of
favourite funds in each sector, latest
investment ideas and our Investment
Times newsletter. We also keep clients up
to date with tax and economic information
in our regularly updated free guides and
expert comments.
Serving clients’ investment needs
throughout their life
It is now possible to have a SIPP shortly
after you are born. From November 2011
the Junior ISA is being launched for
children. From the age of 16 clients can
have the standard ISA, and from 18 a
Fund and Share dealing account. All these
accounts can remain with our clients and
be administered by us for life.  Along the
way we shall aim to continue to offer our
clients the best price, best information
and best service to help maintain
complete client satisfaction. As and when
the investment landscape, pension rules,
or tax laws change we will be here to
assist clients to help them make the most
appropriate decisions on their
investments.
A retirement service that could
increase your income by up to 40%
We help individuals obtain a superior
retirement income. Our annuity service
enables clients to find a better pension
income - in some cases it could improve
income by up to 40% more . We save
thousands of pounds in charges on new
and existing income drawdown pensions.
Looking for investment advice?
We understand that not everyone feels
confident in making their own investment
decisions and some prefer individual advice.
Where that is the case we have a team of
over 60 highly qualified independent
advisers based nationwide who are able to
help clients either face to face or over the
telephone. They can give one off advice,
help build an investment portfolio, or
provide access to a full ongoing Portfolio
Management Service (PMS). We also provide
our own range of multi-manager funds. The
Hargreaves Lansdown approach is unique
and represents the best starting point if
you're seeking advice. It's based upon our
belief you should only pay for things you
need and value. We believe this is just as
true for advice as for any other walk of life.
Corporate Services
In addition to services for private
individuals we are a leading provider and
broker of corporate pension and wrap
solutions. Our corporate wrap allows
employees to benefit from the Hargreaves
Lansdown Vantage service via their
workplace. Corporate Vantage includes
award-winning SIPP , ISA, Fund and Share
accounts.   We also offer a market-leading
retirement and annuity broking service
allowing employees to obtain a higher
income via our annuity search engine.
Other Services
We offer  a foreign currency service to both
private clients and companies and for
more sophisticated investors the ability to
invest in Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs),
Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS),
Contracts For Difference and Financial
Spread Betting.
4
Back to contents Our Clients
We have 380,000 active Vantage clients
and 11,400 clients in our Portfolio
Management Service. We have client
relationships with 570 companies
including 30 FTSE100 companies. The key
to the growth and success of our services
is that we listen to our clients and respond
to their needs. We welcome comments and
criticisms so that we can further improve
the service and provide clients with what
they want. Our management team review
and respond to client feedback personally.
The full range of our services can be
viewed on the website at
www.hl.co.uk/investment)services
       
Our Corporate annuity and Corporate Vantage wrap services are provided
to many household names:
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
5
Hargreaves Lansdown was
established 30 years ago and
offers a range of investment
products, investment services,
financial planning and advice.  
We have established a reputation
for providing high quality service
and value-for-money products to
private investors, whether they are
making their own investment
decisions or looking for an
advisory or discretionary service. 
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Case studies
6
“The Hargreaves Lansdown Corporate
Wrap delivered exactly what it
promised: simple administration,
seamless  implementation and
excellent ﬁnancial education sessions
for our people. An excellent result” 
Paula Jordan, 
McCarthy & Stone HR Director
Richard Cooke (43) transferred to the
Vantage SIPP so he could hold his
pension alongside his ISAs and
investments
“I’ve been using the Vantage Service for
several years to invest in funds and
shares. I ﬁnd it low cost and convenient
and like having the option of managing
my account online.
I recently transferred my pension, a
stakeholder, to the Vantage SIPP so I
could manage my pension alongside my
investments. I can now see them all on a
single statement.
The investment choice in my stakeholder
was very limited. I received just one
statement a
year, which
often left me
unsure where
my pension
was invested.
The SIPP is far more transparent as I can
get a valuation and see where I’m
invested 24 hours a day. I can make my
own decisions and invest almost
anywhere I like.
Transferring was easy. The legwork was
done by Hargreaves Lansdown on my
behalf and it ran very smoothly. The
service has been ﬁrst class, exactly 
what I’ve come to expect from
Hargreaves Lansdown.”
“Why I transferred to the Vantage SIPP”
McCarthy & Stone - Simplifying pension administration and helping its employees to manage their savings.
Edward Pearson (63) from West
Yorkshire became disillusioned with the
costs he was paying his pension
provider.
“There were several features that
attracted me to the Vantage SIPP , the
main one being cost. I was paying a 2%
annual charge on my old pension and
the service was poor.
Switching to the Vantage SIPP has
helped me cut costs. There were no set
up charges, no charges to transfer in my
pension and I pay Hargreaves Lansdown
no initial or annual charges for my funds. 
I like being able to buy and sell
investments online. The Hargreaves
Lansdown helpdesk is always on hand
to answer my questions too. I heard
good reports about Hargreaves
Lansdown and I’m pleased to say
they’re all correct.”
Switching to the Vantage
SIPP to cut costs
McCarthy & Stone is Britain’s largest
builder of retirement homes. Following
a major review of its pension
arrangements, McCarthy & Stone
switched to Hargreaves Lansdown’s
Corporate Vantage in November 2010.  
The problem
The previous pension schemes were
time- consuming to administer and
oﬀered very limited web access. 
They had complicated charges with 
little transparency. 
The sheer complexity prevented many
employees from taking up a pension.
McCarthy & Stone wanted one simple
scheme with easy set-up and
administration, a wider choice of funds,
easy web access, good value and better
ﬁnancial education. 
The solution
After months of research, McCarthy &
Stone could not ﬁnd an insurance
provider able to meet all its
requirements. Hargreaves Lansdown’s
Corporate Vantage ticked all the boxes:
• One simpler scheme
• Reduced administration
• More choice
• Better education
• Better web access and service
• Good value and greater transparency
The launch
The new scheme allowed employees to
join online, through a branded website,
over the phone, or by post. Our ﬁnancial
education team held 19 group
presentations and 314 individual
meetings across six company sites,
managing the whole process with
minimal disruption for McCarthy &
Stone and its employees.
The results
• 20% increase in pension 
take-up compared with the
previous scheme
• 42% of current members
increased their contributions
• Several employees have taken 
up the HL Corporate ISA 
Back to contents        
Hargreaves Lansdown derives earnings
based on the value of investments under
administration or management.  The Group
is renowned for innovative marketing, and
a focus on client satisfaction and retention
through first class service and information.
The Company employs a unique direct
selling model which is cost effective,
scalable and profitable.
Fundamental to achieving these objectives
is ensuring the retention of trust of our
clients by consistently delivering on
commitments.  We have put the long-term
interests of the client first, regardless of
short-term pressures, fashions or market
conditions. This has paid dividends.  By
creating value for clients, we shall create
long-term value for shareholders and
provide fulfilling careers for staff.
Our ongoing aims are:
• Attract and retain clients by identifying
and satisfying their investment
requirements
• Improving the quality of earnings
through increasing recurring income
• Increase shareholder value through
delivering consistent growth in earnings
per share and a growing stream of
dividend income
• Managing risk eﬀectively
• Maintaining our entrepreneurial culture
where we remain ﬂexible and responsive
to opportunities, competition and the
changing environment; and
• Motivate and retain our talented
employees through rewarding roles and
incentives aligned to the goals of our
clients
Our strategic focus in the 2012
ﬁnancial year are:
• Energy into new initiatives
• Continued commercial improvements to
enhance the client experience
• Continued operational improvements to
improve eﬃciency and/or reduce risk
• Tapping into new channels to market
• IT and investment in scalability
To fulﬁl our objectives our strategy is focused into the four key
areas shown below. 
Our strategy and objectives 
• Excellent service • Asset gathering 
• Eﬃciency improvements • Quality staﬀ
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help investors make more of their investments by aiming to provide
the best information, the best service and the best prices in its areas of operation.  This philosophy
should create value for clients, shareholders and staff.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
7
              
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Chief Executive’s review  
The management team’s objective is to apply
substantial energy to building on our strong
track record in order to create significant
long-term value for our shareholders. 
Our strategy is unchanged; we continue to
focus on growing our business by
increasing the level of assets administered
on behalf of clients.  We shall do this by
continuing to provide clients with an
excellent value-for-money service.  This
will be supported by effective management
of costs and increasing the efficiency of our
operations. In all aspects we have been
extremely successful this year. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has a proven track
record of innovation and entrepreneurial
flair.  As a result we have been very success-
ful at creating and seizing opportunities.
Excellent progress has been made during
the year, delivering a strong performance in
spite of the economic challenges facing 
retail investors.  In 2012 we shall continue
to invest in our business and service to 
enhance our clients’ experience.
Review of the economic background
The year to 30 June 2011 posed many
challenges for the retail investor.
The political environment remained
turbulent and uncertain, especially in key
oil producing countries.  Severe
earthquakes experienced in Japan and New
Zealand completed a difficult
environmental backdrop.  
Much of Western society remains heavily
indebted both at a sovereign and personal
level.  The resulting need for parsimony led
to pressure on personal incomes and
potentially fewer spare pounds in the
pocket for saving and investment.
Concerns about the economy, future of the
Euro and banking exposures were also a
consistent theme.
Such uncertainty may offer opportunity for
the speculator, but is rarely good for wider
market confidence.  The FTSE 100 index
stood at 5945.7 at 30 June 2011.  Whilst
this was 21% up from 1 July 2010 it
remains some 10% below the level it stood
at when Hargreaves Lansdown became a
listed company in May 2007.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s 2011 results
The backdrop makes Hargreaves
Lansdown’s 2011 results all the more
creditable.  Once again we are pleased to
report record results. 
The company delivered a 41% increase in
assets under administration from £17.5
billion to £24.6 billion, 50,000 new clients
were welcomed and we report a record
profit before tax of £126.0m, up 46%.
These results represent continued client
confidence in the Hargreaves Lansdown
service. Client satisfaction is the highest in
the company’s history. Our Corporate
Vantage initiative reported a 127% rise in
members to 2417 since last reported on 31
December 2010, an annualised member
growth rate of 254%.  Within a year from
launch, from a standing start, we have 27
schemes live or in implementation.
Corporate business is naturally a long-term
project but we are delighted with its
progress.  
New business advised upon by our
financial advisers leapt by 13% to £625
million, further justification for our
investment in this area.
For these results we have to thank our
clients, whose continued enjoyment of the
service, loyalty and feedback enhances the
The company delivered a
41% increase in assets under
administration from £17 .5
billion to £24.6 billion,
50,000 new clients were
welcomed. 
I am pleased to report a strong set of results in my first reporting period as Chief Executive.  The results clearly
demonstrate the strength of our business model and continued success of our strategy. 
8
Back to contents        
growth of our business.  It remains a
positive reflection on our service that
referrals from existing clients consistently
feature as one of the main attractions to
Hargreaves Lansdown.  In an era of menu
driven telephone systems and often mediocre
client service Hargreaves Lansdown
demonstrates that a company with a
modern outlook, high service values and
low cost pricing can have great success.
We must also thank our staff, whose energy
and appetite for client service and new
developments is key to sustaining this
company’s growth.  
2012 market outlook
Storm clouds have been brewing ever since
the last round of quantitative easing.  Since
our year end the markets have seen a
worldwide sell-off of stocks and de-risking.
Although commercially many firms look
fundamentally sound there is only so much
cost saving that can be affected.  To provide
long-term growth economic stimulus is
essential, but the tools available to
policymakers are currently limited which
has led to fragile confidence. Emerging
markets have the advantage of not being
burdened with either personal or sovereign
debt, although those countries rely on the
western world buying their products.
Uncertainty remains over the future of the
Euro and the ramifications of repayment of
sovereign debt to those western banks which
have been foolhardy in their lending policies. 
On a positive note the potential for raising
interest rates fades further and further into
the future, a situation which will drive
investors to seek other income producing
assets such as those in which Hargreaves
Lansdown specialise.  It is also worth
pointing out that although emerging
markets have fallen short-term, their long-
term prospects are bright.  It is likely their
markets and currency will perform better
than the UK as we see a shift in economic
strength from West to East.  Any positive
appreciation helps improve the earnings of
Hargreaves Lansdown as a significant
proportion of our client assets are invested
in emerging economies. There are indeed
tough times ahead but the quality of our
service, information and pricing should
help us to prevail.
Company outlook
Despite the less than ideal economic
environment, Hargreaves Lansdown is in a
strong position.  We have continued to
invest in a range of enhancements to the
Vantage service and these new
developments have been delivered on time
and to budget. We have also restructured
our treasury strategy during the year to the
benefit of both clients and the company.
The post year-end tariff reductions and
functionality improvements in our
stockbroking service have been designed to
improve the client experience.  This should
encourage clients to consolidate all
investments, including shares and funds,
within their Vantage account. We believe
these enhancements represent a most
compelling proposition in the market.  The
initial response from clients both existing
and new has been very pleasing.
Our online overseas dealing service
launched in July, provides access to
European, US and Canadian markets at the
same low charging tariff.  We plan to
improve coverage of other investments
such as passive funds and investment
trusts, of which a vast range are already
offered on Vantage.
These developments support the continued
increase in the scope of our 'investment
supermarket'.  This will position
Hargreaves Lansdown as the best place for
an investor to invest in key asset classes.
This proposition, allied to our scale and
service levels, will provide competitive
advantage over traditional niche offerings.
The modern investor needs and expects
access to a wide range of good value
investment choices, Hargreaves Lansdown
delivers just that.
Our digital strategy is increasingly
important, with 27.5 million visits to our
website during the year, a 24.3% increase.
We have developed and will continue
developing new routes for seeking,
We report a record
profit before tax of
£126.0m, up 46%. 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
9
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
attracting and communicating with clients
through electronic means which are
increasing in scope and sophistication. Our
new i-Phone and Android mobile phone
applications provide investors access to
extensive fund, share and investment
research, trading functionality, and allow
clients to manage their portfolio on the
move. Since launch in August 2011 our i-
Phone and Android applications have been
downloaded over 11,000 times.
Direct business will remain core to
Hargreaves Lansdown but our fee based
advice proposition presents opportunity for
growth, as the regulatory and economic
environment presents acute challenges to
other firms in the financial advice sector.
We are satisfied with progress on our
Corporate Vantage proposition and
continue to build our reputation in the
corporate market. Our discretionary service
also shows growth.
The cumulative effect of our many smaller
developments also makes a difference.
They also reflect our energy and
determination to capitalise on our market
position and continuously improve the
service to the benefit of our clients.
We are well aware that other companies
seek to compete, although as yet no one
has managed to do so to any scale.
Advantages such as proprietary ownership
of our own platform, engagement with
millions of investors, operating scale,
reputation, brand and service levels give us
a formidable position.  Nevertheless, we are
not complacent and continue to listen
carefully to clients and watch closely
competitor and industry developments.
In summary, we are extremely well placed.
2012 will be about reaping the benefits of
our hard work and further enhancements
to the service to maintain the long-term
future of the business.
Post year-end trading
Since the year end, the FTSE All-Share has
fallen by 12% (as at 30 August 2011).
However, levels of net new business
inflows since the year end have been strong
with July and August combined showing an
increase of more than 30% over the same
months in the prior year. Client recruitment
has also been strong, with net new clients
joining the Vantage service in July up 14%
for 2011 compared to the same month last
year and August also significantly higher.
Share dealing volumes were 11% higher in
July.  Market volatility during August
produced an exceptional level of trading
which enhanced the effect of the
introduction of our improved share dealing
service and tariff. August equity dealing
volumes were 170,000 versus 82,000 in
August 2010, a 107% increase.
The impact of regulation
The regulatory development of note
remains the Retail Distribution Review
(RDR).  The reforms covered in this
initiative divide broadly into two, being
relevant to the provision of advice and to
platforms.    
We have previously stated that we consider
ourselves already materially compliant
with the advisory part of the reforms.
These changes should hold opportunity,
both for expansion of our advice business
and increased interest in direct investment.
Our view on this element of RDR remains
positive.
The platform paper issued by the FSA on 1
August 2011 (PS11/9) represented a
potential significant U-turn in its position
on payments to platforms by fund groups
and posed more questions than answers.
Whilst we are disappointed that this part of
the FSA 's work is not yet clearly resolved,
we are confident that we will be able to
adapt as a business to meet any regulatory
requirements whilst maintaining a clear
focus on client service and on the success
of our business. There is substantial water
to go under the bridge in this debate.
Hargreaves Lansdown offers great prices,
service and information and will continue
to do so. Scale and technological
improvements will see costs for retail
investors reduce over time. This should
result in reduced margins but be more than
offset by increasing volumes.  We see no
current reason why our revenue or profits
should be materially affected by the RDR.
There is a range of recurring revenue
models available to us.  Investing direct
through Hargreaves Lansdown will remain
highly competitive and in most
circumstances lower cost than through
financial advisers.  There is also
considerable time to make any transition
and we already successfully use alternative
models in our business. Uncertainty
remains but we will continue to fine tune
our strategy as the RDR progresses towards
its two step implementation in the years
ahead.
We expect over time charging will become
more explicit for the 46% of our net income
received from fund groups.  Although
clients like the current model it is clear that
various industry developments lead
towards more prevalent explicit charging.
We will continue to promote our view that
"bundled" models have value for retail
investors but such a model is not an
economic necessity. Indeed some explicit
charging developments present new
revenue opportunities.  
In terms of wider regulatory developments,
as a highly compliant and ethical company,
we hope the restructured UK regulatory
regime will be effective but proportionate.
The £3 million additional charge to
Hargreaves Lansdown this year in respect
of a contribution to the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme for the Keydata
fiasco, in which we played no part,
highlighted the potential cost to innocent
companies of regulatory mistakes. The new
regulator must also keep a careful watch on
European developments and lobby
appropriately for the best outcome for the
UK.  
Conclusion
I would like to thank our clients,
shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.
Their continued support has delivered
another record year for Hargreaves
Lansdown. We have seen many more
people recognise the enjoyment and value
in self-directed investment using our
company's services. This is a trend we shall
do our utmost to promote and continue.
Ian Gorham
Chief Executive 
13 September 2011
We are satisfied with
progress on our 
Corporate Vantage
proposition and continue
to build our reputation in
the corporate market.
10
Back to contents        
...levels of net new business inﬂows
since the year end have been strong
with July and August combined
showing an increase of more than 30%
over the same months in the prior year.
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
How are we doing?
Strategic priorities and progress
Our 2011 
priorities
Progress 
against our
objectives
Performance
indicators 
2012 focus
>>
>> >>
>> >>
>>
>>
>>
>>
Excellent service
>>
Asset gathering
• Develop improved functionality for our share
dealing service.
• Improve our range of advisory services.
• In 2011 we maintained our excellent client and
asset retention rates. 96% of clients responding
to a June 2011 survey rated our service as good,
very good or excellent.
• We extended the scope of online services. We
developed the improved share dealing functions
including online overseas dealing, i-Phone and
Android apps, stops and limits functionality,
with the changes launched in July and August
2011.
• Advisory services have been extended to
include free platform assistance, model
portfolios.
• In response to client feedback we also extended
our opening hours. 
• Continued commercial improvements to
services to enhance the client experience.
• Progress the Investment
Supermarket strategy.  
• Continued energy into new
initiatives, such as Corporate
Vantage and the Junior ISA.
• Tapping into new channels to
market.
• In 2011, assets under
administration (AUA) increased by
£7.1 billion.  The asset retention
rate remained very high at 92%.
• A new, reduced, share dealing
tariﬀ has been developed and
promoted, with the tariﬀ eﬀective
on 1 August 2011.
• We launched our Corporate
Vantage service, and by 30 June
2011 we operated 27 schemes for
corporate clients.
• Develop an improved tariﬀ for our
share dealing service, further
improving recruitment of new
clients and retention of existing
clients.
2011
2010
2009
2008 252
282
330
380 2011
2010
2009
2008 2.5
2.0
3.3
3.5
2011
2010
2009
2008 88
93
90
92 2011
2010
2009
2008 11.2
11.9
17.5
24.6
>>
>>
Number of active Vantage clients (‘000)
Vantage asset retention (%)
Net new business (£bn)
Assets under administration (£bn)
12
Back to contents        
Our Business Model
Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms
typically focus on servicing the IFA
community and are remunerated for acting
as administrator. The IFA using the
platform is remunerated for acting as
distributor. We provide our fund
supermarket and wrap platform direct to
the private investor, thereby performing
the role, and capturing the economics, of
both the platform provider and distributor.
We strengthen our ability to win and retain
clients by discounting charges and passing
on a portion of the annual management
charge to clients as a loyalty bonus on
many Vantage accounts.  The Hargreaves
Lansdown business model allows us to
oﬀer highly competitive prices to our
clients and achieve strong proﬁtability.
We aim to create shareholder value by
being the leading provider of investment
management products and services to
private investors in the UK. In 2012 we will
build on our ‘Investment Supermarket’
strategy to position Hargreaves Lansdown
as the best place to buy any mainstream
retail investment directly.
Our strategy is focused on growing the
value of assets we have under
administration or management and
consequently increasing our revenues and
proﬁtability. The growth is fundamentally
delivered through providing an excellent
service to our clients whilst maintaining
tight cost control and achieving eﬃciencies
in order to improve our proﬁt margin to the
satisfaction of shareholders.  
>> >> >>
>> >> >>
>>
Eﬃciency improvements
>>
Quality staﬀ
• IT and scalability investment.
• Continued operational eﬃciency
improvements.
• Continued focus on retention of
quality staﬀ, and expansion of
advisory business. 
• We have further increased the
scope of online services to include
online withdrawals and have made
further eﬃciencies to the transfer
process. 
• The proportion of Vantage clients
who manage their investments
online has increased with 83% of
share dealing in Vantage carried out
online (2010: 79%) and 74% of
clients registered for online access
(2010: 71%).
• We have invested in our IT
development capacity and
initiatives to future proof our
systems.
• Established adviser academy to
develop both new internal and
external recruits. 
• Recruited additional IT developers
and improved project management
process.
• Retention of all key management.
• Continued use of share incentives
for key staﬀ and SAYE scheme for
all staﬀ.
• Utilise technology and exploit the
beneﬁt of owning our own systems
and platform to improve the
eﬃciency of our operations.
• Retain and develop quality staﬀ.
• Increase IT development capacity. 
• Expand advisory business.
2011
2010
2009
2008 48.0
52.5
56.5
61.3 2011
2010
2009
2008 657
607
628
653
2011
2010
2009
2008 62
66
71
74 2011
2010
2009
2008 92.76
120.40
137.41
192.98
   
   
Underlying operating proﬁt margin (%)
Proportion of online Vantage clients (%)
Average number of staﬀ
Pre tax proﬁt per employee (£’000)
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
13
Back to contents These results have been achieved against
a backdrop of continued economic
uncertainty. This is testament to the
business model and the trust that our
clients placed in us delivering the services
they require.
Total revenue increased by 31% to £207.9
million. The Vantage division revenue
increased by 43%. The key drivers have
been the recurring revenue streams of
renewal income, interest and management
fees, which combined accounted for £47.5
million, or 97%, of the increase. This
demonstrates we are achieving an
improvement in earnings quality in
accordance with one of our strategic
objectives.
The Group’s underlying operating profit
increased by 42% to £127.4 million in
2011 compared to £89.8 million for 2010.  
The underlying operating profit margin
increased from 56.5% to 61.3%.  This
resulted from 31% revenue growth,
coupled with tight cost management
whereby the increase to administration
expenses was just 16%. 
Including one-off expenses, statutory
profit before tax increased by 46% to
£126 million compared to £86.3 million
in the previous year.  The effective tax rate
for the Group this year was 27.0%,
resulting in a reported profit after tax for
the year of £91.9 million (2010: £61.3
million).
Divisional performance
The Operational review on pages 17 to 21
contains information about the
performance of the Group.  In particular
further information about Assets Under
Administration (AUA) and the
performance of the three divisions –
Vantage, Discretionary & Managed, and
Third Party & Other services.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses have been
contained to a 13% increase. Underlying
administrative expenses have been
contained to a 16% increase from £69.2
million to £80.5 million.  Underlying
expenses this year exclude the additional
£3.0 million Financial Service
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) levy relating
to Keydata which, in common with other
intermediaries and fund managers,
Hargreaves Lansdown was required to
contribute to the compensation scheme
despite having no involvement with Keydata.
We consider this to be a one-off cost. 
Taken in the context of a 31% increase in
revenue and a 42% increase in underlying
operating profit year on year, the 16%
increase in administrative expenses
demonstrates a strong focus on cost
control, efficiencies and the scalability of
our business model.  
Although staff costs remain the largest
cost, as a percentage of administrative
expenses it decreased by 2% to 50%
(2010: 52%).
The number of staff (including directors)
employed at 30 June 2011 was 662, and
the average number of staff during the
year was 653, an increase of 4% against
an average of 628 for the comparative
year. The increase in staff numbers
resulted mainly from an increased
investment in information technology
resource and an increase in the volume of
business transacted during the year and
was most marked in the months
surrounding the tax year-end. 
We continue to operate a defined
contribution pension scheme for staff and
directors. As such, pension costs are
recognised as an expense when the
contribution is paid. 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Financial Review 
Despite tough economic and market conditions, it has been another record year for the Group in terms of
revenue, profits, client recruitment and new business.  A rise in stock markets during the year to 30 June 2011
increased in value the assets under administration (AUA) and the revenue derived from them. A significant
contribution has come from record levels of organic growth in AUA from new business and new clients.
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 
£’million £’million
Revenue 207.9 159.0
Underlying administrative expenses (80.5) (69.2)
Underlying operating proﬁt (*) 127.4 89.8
One-oﬀ administrative expenses (3.0) (4.4)
Operating proﬁt 124.4 85.4
Non-operating income 1.6 0.9
Proﬁt before taxation
- Before one-oﬀ administrative expenses 129.0 90.7
- After one-oﬀ administrative expenses 126.0 86.3
Taxation (34.1) (25.0)
Proﬁt after taxation 91.9 61.3
Underlying diluted earnings per share 20.0 13.9 
Diluted earnings per share 19.6 13.1 
(*) Underlying operating proﬁt excludes one-oﬀ costs relating to the additional FSCS levy in 2011 and the new
oﬃce in 2010.
14
Back to contents Commission payable includes the share of
renewal income which the Group receives
on funds held in Vantage which is rebated
to clients as a loyalty bonus (with the
exception of funds held in SIPPs). It
increased by 33%, from £11.8 million to
£15.7 million, in line with the rise in value
of the related client assets. On average 17%
of renewal income earned in Vantage is
paid back to clients as loyalty bonus.
Group marketing and distribution spend
increased by 12%, from £8.2 million to
£9.2 million. This includes the costs of
sending information to existing and potential
clients, including the Group’s flagship
publication, the Investment Times. These
costs include media advertising, postage,
stationery and the cost of corresponding
with clients. There has been an overall
increase in the level of client communication
and direct marketing activity compared to
the previous financial year.  
Office costs include rent, rates, utility and
security costs and have increased by £1.2
million. This increase primarily relates to
our first full year in our new, larger office
following our move in February 2010. Office
costs are predominantly fixed in nature.    
Other costs include dealing costs, irrecover-
able VAT, compensation, insurance, legal
and professional services, computer main-
tenance and external administration
charges.  These collectively increased by
13% from £7.1 million to £8.0 million.
Computer maintenance costs were £0.5m
higher commensurate with the increased
investment in computer hardware. We are
unable to recover a large proportion of VAT
incurred on expenses.  The rate of VAT has
increased this year, which together with a
higher level of expenses has increased ir-
recoverable VAT by £0.6m. 
Non-operating income 
Investment revenues increased to £1.5
million owing primarily to an increase in
interest rates on the Group’s cash balances
and higher than average cash balances.   
Taxation
Taxation increased from £25.0 million to
£34.1 million. The effect of the increase in
pre-tax profits was slightly softened by the
effective tax rate decreasing from 28.9% to
around 27.0%. This decrease predominantly
resulted from a reduction in the corporation
tax rate from 28% to 26% as from 1 April
2011 and a reduction in non-qualifying
depreciation and expenses on which the
Group is unable to obtain a tax deduction
both in the current and prior year.
The main aim of our in-house tax team is to
pay the right amount of tax at the right time.
We aim to be transparent in our activities;
we do not engage in aggressive, artificial or
sophisticated tax planning activities, and we
actively engage with the UK tax authorities.
Earnings per share (EPS)
The diluted EPS increased by 50% from
13.1 pence to 19.6 pence. Underlying
diluted EPS increased by 44%, from 13.9
pence to 20.0 pence. This is calculated as
the earnings for the year, adjusted to
exclude the net effect of investment
gains and excluding one-off costs 
relating to the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) interim 
levy (2011) and the move to the new 
office (2010), divided by the total
weighted average fully diluted number 
of shares, including those held by the
Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”).
Further information on the funding of 
the EBT and potential dilution of share
capital is provided within the Directors’
Remuneration Report. 
       
Administrative Expenses Year Ended Year Ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’million £’million
Staﬀ costs 40.1 36.0
Commission payable 15.7 11.8
Marketing & distribution costs 9.2 8.2
Oﬃce running costs 4.1 2.9
Depreciation, amortisation and ﬁnancial costs 2.6 2.7
Other costs 8.0 7 .1
Compliance costs 0.8 0.5
Underlying administrative expenses 80.5 69.2
Additional FSCS levy 3.0 -
One-oﬀ costs related to the new oﬃces - 4.4
Total administrative expenses 83.5 73.6
Dividend
In 2010 the Company paid a higher interim dividend in advance and in anticipation of the
increase to the top rate of income tax, and a correspondingly lower second (final) dividend
was paid.  In 2011 we have reverted to the normal pattern of a conservative interim and
higher final dividend.  
The directors are now declaring a second (final) ordinary dividend of 8.41 pence and a
special dividend of 5.96 pence per ordinary share, payable on 29 September 2011 to all
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 September 2011.  This brings the
total dividends in respect of the year to 18.87 pence per ordinary share (2010: 11.88p), an
increase of 59%. 
An arrangement exists under which the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has agreed to waive all
dividends.
Dividend per share 2011 2010 Change
Interim dividend paid 4.5p 8.0p
Interim special dividend paid - 1.60p
Second (ﬁnal) dividend 8.41p 0.58p
Special dividend declared 5.96p 1.70p
Total dividend for the year 18.87p 11.88p +59%
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
15
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Balance Sheet and cash ﬂow
We have continued to maintain a clean
balance sheet with high cash reserves.
Group net assets increased from £66.1
million to £130.9 million and retained
profits increased the Group’s own cash
balances to £108.4 million. The only
significant cash outflow during the
current year was the payment of dividends
totalling £31.4 million. 
Capital expenditure
The majority of the £8.1 million capital
expenditure last year related to the new
office.  This year the capital expenditure of
£1.9 million was mainly on IT hardware
and software. We shall continue to invest
in strengthening and expanding our IT
infrastructure in 2012.
Cash ﬂow and treasury policy
The Group is highly cash generative, with
92% of operating profit converted to
operating cash flow during the year.  In
line with the change to the Group’s
treasury management arrangements, the
level of accrued interest receivable on
fixed term deposits has increased to £21.3
million (2010: £5.5 million).    
The total cash balance of £122.0 million
reported in the balance sheet includes
£13.5 million of client settlement account
balances.  The Group’s own cash balances
of £108.4 million includes cash held
within the EBT which has decreased from
£3.3 million as at 30 June 2010 to £0.5
million at 30 June 2011 following the
purchase of additional Hargreaves
Lansdown plc shares.  
The Group has no borrowings, and
deposits its liquid funds with selected
financial institutions with strong credit
ratings and financial ratios. The Treasury
Committee reviews the deployment of
banks on a regular basis with the primary
objective of ensuring the security of its
assets and the secondary but important
objective of maximising return. The Group
actively maintains cash balances on short-
term deposit to ensure that it has
sufficient funds for operations. This policy
is designed to ensure that the Group takes
no material credit risk.  The Group is not
exposed to significant foreign exchange
translation or transaction risk. 
Increase in counterparty balances
In accordance with market practice,
certain balances with clients, Stock
Exchange member firms and other
counterparties are included in the balance
sheet.  These balances fluctuate according
to the volume and value of recent trading.
At the year end, trade receivables and
trade payables included £134.3 million
(2010: £80.3 million) and £146.7 million
(2010: £88.7 million) respectively of
counterparty balances.
Capital requirement
The Group has four subsidiary companies
authorised and regulated by the Financial
Services Authority (FSA).  These firms
maintain capital resources at a level which
satisfies both their regulatory capital
requirements as well as their working
capital requirements.  Within the industry,
regulatory capital requirements have
increased in recent years and we expect
this to continue as a result of FSA
requirements.  During the 2011 financial
year we held a healthy margin of at least six
times the Pillar 1 minimum capital
requirement.  This equates to a margin of
approximately three times the Pillar 2
capital requirement, which is our own
assessment of the minimum amount of
capital that we believe is adequate as
identified during our Individual Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).  
As at 30 June 2011, the aggregated Pillar 1
regulatory capital requirement across the
four regulated subsidiary companies was
approximately £8.7 million compared to
capital resources of approximately £55.0
million held in the four subsidiaries and
£130.5 million held across the Group. 
Key judgements, assumptions and
critical accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted by
Hargreaves Lansdown have been
consistently applied throughout the current
and prior year, except as set out in Note 2 to
the financial statements.  The preparation
of our financial statements in accordance
with these policies has required a number
of estimates, assumptions and judgements. 
Judgements and assumptions made in the
financial statements are continually
reviewed. Whilst some outcomes have been
affected by the volatility in the financial
markets, all judgements and assumptions
in the accounting policies remain consistent
with previous years. Note 3 to the Financial
Statements discloses the key sources of
estimation uncertainty and judgements made
by the management; and Note 27 includes
the Group’s policies and processes on capital
management, financial risk management
and details on its exposure to such risks.  
Going concern
The impact of the current economic
conditions on the assessment of going
concern has been considered in the Other
Information section of the Directors’ report. 
16
Back to contents The Group is organised into three core operating divisions, based around products and services:
The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a
direct-to-private investor investment
platform. Vantage offers clients the
administrative convenience of being able to
hold and manage their investments,
including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, ETFs,
bonds, investment trusts and cash,
irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place
with consolidated valuation reports, a
single dealing service and instant online
access. In the 2011 financial year Vantage
represented 77% of Group revenue and
78% of underlying operating profit.
380,000 active Vantage clients use the
Vantage service. 
Vantage
The Vantage division increased its revenues
by £48.3 million or 43%, from £112.2
million to £160.5 million. This resulted
primarily from growth in Assets Under
Administration (AUA) by 42% from £16.3
billion to £23.1 billion and the impact of a
full year’s income on assets acquired
during the previous year. 
The £6.8 billion (2010: £5.4 billion)
increase in Vantage assets from £16.3
billion to £23.1 billion can be attributed to
£3.4 billion of net new business inflows
(2010: £3.2 billion), other positive growth
factors with a value of £0.2 billion (2010:
£0.2 billion), such as retained investment
income and £3.2 billion of stock market
growth (net of interest credited to clients on
cash balances) compared to £2.0 billion of
market growth in 2010.  As in previous
years the growth in AUA resulting from net
new business inflows, or ‘organic growth’,
has been strong at 21% (2010: 29%). 
The growth in AUA derived from stock
market and other growth factors was also
21% (2010: 20%). The highest percentage
growth in the value of AUA during the year
was evident in the Fund and Share
Account, increasing by 47%, whilst SIPP
AUA grew by 43% and ISA by 37%.
Included within the Fund and Share
account is a significant holding in
Hargreaves Lansdown shares which
increased in value by 80% during the year.
Removing this, the growth in Fund and
Share AUA was 41%. As at 30 June 2011,
the value of the Vantage ISA was £9.5
billion, (30 June 2010: £6.9 billion), the
Vantage SIPP was £6.6 billion (30 June
2010: £4.6 billion) and the Vantage Fund
and Share Account was £7.0 billion (30
June 2010: £4.8 billion).
The ISA allowance has been increased from
£10,200 to £10,680 in the tax year ending
5 April 2012.  The welcomed simplification
of the pension tax relief rules means that,
The Discretionary and Managed division
incorporates our advisory Portfolio
Management Service (PMS) and our own
range of multi-manager funds.  The
investments within these services, known
as Assets Under Management (AUM), are
both administered and managed by us on
behalf of clients. The division accounted for
12% of Group revenue and 13.5% of
underlying operating profit in the 2011
financial year.  More than 11,000 clients
use our PMS service.
The Third Party and Other services division
distributes investment products that are not
held in Vantage accounts. These include
corporate pensions, personal pensions,
annuities, third party investment products
and venture capital trusts. The division also
includes certificated share dealing,
currency services and third party / white
labelled CFDs and  spread betting. The
division represents 11% of Group revenue
and 8.5% of underlying operating profit.
       
Total Vantage Assets Under 
Administration £23.1bn 
(2010 £16.3bn)
Operational review
In an environment that was particularly challenging for investors, our continuing focus was on providing
excellent service and value which made Hargreaves Lansdown a natural choice.  We delivered a strong
performance again in 2011.
ISA +37% 
£9.5bn
(2010 £6.9bn)
Fund & Share account + 47% 
£7 .0bn
(2010 £4.8bn)
SIPP  +43%
£6.6bn
(2010 £4.6bn)
£160.5m 
Vantage revenue 
2011
2010
159.0
£160.5
£112.2
£24.7m 
Discretionary and Managed 
revenue 
2011
2010
£24.7
£22.9
£22.7m 
Third Party and Other services  
revenue 
2011
2010
£22.7
£23.9
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
17
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
subject to earnings, clients can now
contribute and receive tax relief on up to a
£50,000 pension contribution each year in
addition to any unused £50,000 allowance
from the previous three tax years.  An
increased number of clients made
contributions of new monies into their SIPP
and ISA accounts this year (SIPP +17% and
ISA +8%).  The average value of contributions
reduced by 18% in the SIPP and 2% in the
ISA due to investors having reduced spare
monies for investment and the effect of
Corporate Vantage, where average
contributions are more regular but lower.
This resulted in an overall increase in value
of new contributions in these accounts of
£0.1 billion. Clients continued to transfer
SIPP and ISA investments held by third
parties into our Vantage service and the
value of transfers increased by 13%. Net
inflows of new business have been achieved
across all the Vantage services with the
SIPP achieving £1.4 billion (2010: £1.3
billion), the ISA £1.3 billion (2010: £1.3
billion) and the Fund and Share account
£0.7 billion (2010: £0.6 billion).
During the year the number of active
Vantage clients increased by 50,000 to
380,000. Some of these clients hold more
than one type of account with us, and
hence when we look at the increase in
accounts aggregated across the three main
Vantage services the increase in accounts
was higher at 71,000; SIPP accounts
increased by 27,000, ISA by 28,000 and
Fund and Share by 16,000.
A number of our clients make regular
contributions into their ISA, SIPP or Fund
and Share account.  The ‘Regular Savers’
service has been growing steadily since
being introduced 8 years ago, and as at 30
June 2011 we had 47,000 clients (2010:
37,000) saving a total of £18 million each
month by way of direct debit instruction.
Our Corporate Vantage service will have the
potential to make a significant increase to
the volume and value of regular monthly
savings.
Vantage clients decreased their cash
weightings during the period as worldwide
stock markets continued to recover from
their low points and their appetite to invest
in equities and funds continued.  3.9
million fund deals (2010: 3.0 million) and
1.3 million equity deals (2010: 1.1 million)
were transacted by clients during the year.
The composition of assets across the whole
of Vantage changed during the period: as at
30 June 2011, Vantage assets were held
30% in equities (30 June 2010: 28%), 60%
in funds (30 June 2010: 60%) and 10% in
cash (30 June 2010: 12%). 
The overall average gross revenue margin
within Vantage remained consistent year
on year at 78bps.  Interest on client money
is one of the components of the overall
Vantage revenue margin. Throughout the
year we have faced all time historically low
interest rates with the Bank of England
base rate being just 0.5%. We have,
however, achieved an improvement in the
interest revenue margin as a result of
reviewing our treasury arrangements. This
has also enabled us to improve the return
to clients through offering higher fixed
interest fixed term deposits.
Discretionary and Managed
The Discretionary division earns recurring
income on underlying investments held in
the Group’s Portfolio Management Service
(PMS), and on investments in the Group’s
multi-manager funds.  Revenues in the
Discretionary division increased by 8%
from £22.9 million to £24.7 million.
Increased renewal income and
management fees resulting from the
increase in AUA were the key drivers of the
increased revenue. 
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves
Lansdown through its own range of multi-
manager funds and PMS increased by  £0.5
billion to £2.3 billion as at 30 June 2011
(2010: £1.8 billion). Of these assets under
management, £0.8 billion of the Group’s
multi-manager funds were held within
Vantage as at 30 June 2011 (2010: £0.6
billion) and £1.5 billion were held within
PMS of which £1.4 billion were in the
multi-manager funds (2010: £1.2 billion of
which £1.1 billion were in multi-manager
funds).  The growth in assets is due to a
positive market growth of £0.3 billion
combined with net new business of £0.2
billion.
This division earns initial charges and
management fees on assets introduced into
PMS. £109m of net new business was
introduced into PMS during the year (2010:
£99m). The sole distribution of PMS is
through the Group’s team of advisers. The
number of advisers increased from 62 at
the start of the year to 68 by 30 June 2011,
including six apprentices and four advisors
allocated to the division’s telephone
service. The proportion of PMS assets
invested in Hargreaves Lansdown multi-
manager funds as at 30 June 2011 was
91% (2010: 91%).
The multi-manager funds maintained expo-
sure to equities and corporate bonds during
the year and the markets had a positive 
effect on the assets under management.
Throughout the year the Group operated 
five multi-manager funds and four of them
18
Back to contents        
have outperformed their IMA sector average
during the financial year. Three of the four
funds that have been in existence for five
years or more have also outperformed their
IMA sector five year average.
Third Party and Other Services
The division as a whole saw a fall in
revenues of 5%, from £23.9 million to
£22.7 million. This is part of Group policy
to rely less on third party income streams.
£2.3 million of third party corporate
pension revenue has been deferred at the
balance sheet date, which is significantly
higher than in previous years (2010: 
£0.1 million).  The increase is pursuant 
to a higher level of ongoing service
obligations for these pension policies, 
and accordingly as required by accounting
standards the related income is deferred
and will be recognised over the period that
the service is provided. 
Personal pension revenue increased by
£0.5 million owing to an 18% increase in
the number of annuity cases completed.
Successful marketing and ease of execution
through our website have helped drive this
increase in completed annuities. Corporate
pension revenue decreased by £2.0 million
because of an increase in revenue deferral
as explained above. Revenue from our
Funds Library service increased by £1.1
million driven by a general improvement
on all revenues and in particular the user
and development fees. Revenue from Third
Party Investments business decreased by
£0.7 million.  This is part of a long-term
trend of clients choosing to use the Vantage
platform, which increases the long-term
quality of earnings but reduces income
classified as Third Party. 
The Group continues to raise awareness of
the Hargreaves Lansdown Corporate
Vantage service. Over time, management
expects a transition in corporate pensions
away from the traditional initial
commission model to a recurring revenue
based model through the Corporate
Vantage service.  This is very much in line
with the Group’s focus on maximising
‘quality’ recurring revenues. 
The total revenues from CFDs, spread
betting, currency services and certificated
dealing were in line with last year, with an
increase in spread betting revenue being
offset by a fall in certificated dealing and
commission charges.  
Total assets under administration can be broken down as follows:
At 30 June 2011 At 30 June 2010
(£’bn) (£’bn)
Vantage Assets Under Administration (AUA) 23.1 16.3
Assets Under Administration and Management (AUM)
- Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 1.5 1.2
- Multi-manager funds outside of PMS 0.8 0.6
AUM Total 2.3 1.8
Less: Multi-manager funds included in both AUA and AUM (0.8) (0.6)
Total Assets Under Administration 24.6 17 .5
This year we delighted more clients
50,000 NET NEW ACTIVE VANTAGE CLIENTS
INCREASED CLIENT SATISFACTION SCORE
380,000 ACTIVE VANTAGE CLIENTS
11,000 PmS CLIENTS
£3.5 BILLION NET NEW BUSINESS
20% ORGANIC GROWTH IN AUA
21% mARKET GROWTH IN AUA
We now administer
more than £24 billion
of investments on
behalf of our clients 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
19
Back to contents Stockbroking services
Across the Group, record stockbroking
volumes have been transacted with 1.3
million equity deals, up year on year by
18%. 
As from 1 August 2011 the online
stockbroking tariff has been improved.
Clients will pay as little as £5.95 for a deal
and no more than £11.95.  The new
charges are on a sliding scale, with higher
volumes of dealing attracting a lower
charge.  Based on volumes in the last year,
we would expect the average dealing
charge to reduce from the current £16.90
to c.£10.40. This combined with various
improvements to the functionality of our
service that have already launched such as
the i-Phone and Android apps, stop loss
and limit order service, and online
overseas share dealing, means we are
confident that dealing volumes will
continue to grow.  
IT and systems
Our core in-house systems are bespoke
and we continually improve and develop
them.  This lack of third party dependency
is a key factor in our ability to improve
both functionality and efficiency.  Having
control of our own platform gives the
ability to control service levels and react
quickly to changing markets and the
needs of our clients. 
We provide outstanding service to our
clients by phone, online or other
channels.  We continue to invest in IT and
systems infrastructure to ensure that the
maximum number of key processes are
automated. The scalability of our systems
and infrastructure is always under review
and we intend to keep expanding their
capacity.
We recently acquired the new two letter
(hl) website address www.hl.co.uk to
improve accessibility. The number of visits
to our website during the financial year
was 27.5 million up 24.3% on the
previous year. These visits gave rise to
over 300 million page views. Our website
as at August 2011 was ranked 679th
based on UK traffic volumes compared to
881st in August 2010 (source: alexa.com).  
We are optimistic
about the
introduction of the
i-Phone and Android
app, both of which
launched in August
2011 and are already
showing promise
with over 11,000
downloads in
August. Within
weeks the i-Phone
app was rated 3rd on
the list of free financial services apps.
Industry sources expect smartphones and
tablets to outsell personal computers in
2011 for the first time. These apps will
enable us to capitalise on this growing
trend for mobile devices and provide their
users with greater functionality.
Work has taken place during the year to
ensure business continuity following the
amalgamation of the offices to a single
location in February 2010.  Quarterly
business continuity tests take place and
simulate real life disaster scenarios to
both IT systems and personnel alike.
Staﬀ
We continue to focus on motivating and
retaining our talented staff.      
During March 2011 we granted new
options under a SAYE scheme.  Further
shares were purchased by the Employee
Benefit Trust (EBT) during the year to be
used for the future incentivisation of staff.
The Board believes in the use of share
schemes which align staff interests with
those of other shareholders.  Many
employees also receive an annual bonus
related to the overall profitability of the
Group and their own individual
contribution.
We also retain and attract staff through
the provision of training, career
progression, good communication and a
vibrant culture. The continued growth and
success of the organisation continues to
create opportunities for staff. 
Demographics
Increased longevity means people will be
unable to rely solely on state assistance,
and many are faced with reduced
employer pension provision.  The ageing 
population and lower birth rates create 
a need for people to make their own
pension provision.
The gap between current saving and the
amount needed to adequately fund
retirement – is being partially addressed
by the UK Government by introducing
auto-enrolment in October 2012.  This
requires employers to enrol their
employees in a pension scheme with a
minimum of 4% employer and employee
contributions, although employees can
opt out.  Our own Vantage SIPP can be
used to provide a workplace or individual
pension, and so this change should
benefit the Group.
The UK Government is also introducing
NEST (National Employment Savings
Trust).  NEST addresses the pension
provision for those on low to moderate
incomes who are currently without
pension savings. Again the Vantage SIPP
provided to the workplace pension could
benefit from this. 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
18% growth in equity 
deal volumes 
Share dealing volumes (million)
2011
2010
2009
2008 0.5
0.8
1.1
83% of Vantage equity deals are
dealt online
Share dealing % online
2011
2010
2009
2008 63
77
79
1.3
83
Competition, regulation and markets
Markets
The economic climate has again been
tough this year, with people facing
financial pressure through government
cuts and inflation. During the year under
review the average daily level of the FTSE
All-Share index was 12% higher than last
year and contributed a 21% increase to
AUA, but since the year end the market
has fallen materially.
20
Back to contents        
Pension tax relief
We welcome the simpler pension tax relief
rules introduced from 6 April 2011.  The
new £50,000 annual limit and three year
carry-forward rule will allow higher
earners to make larger contributions than
they were able to under the previous
interim rules.  This, together with the end
of compulsory annuitisation, simplifies
pension rules and offers individuals more
choice and flexibility over their pension
savings and retirement planning.
ISAs
The 2010/11 tax year statistics released
by HMRC indicate that 6.9% of all new
subscriptions into a stocks and shares ISA
are made into the Vantage ISA.  That is an
increase from the 6.5% market share in
2009/10 and 4.2% share in 2008/09.
HMRC figures show that new
subscriptions into stocks and share ISAs
have grown by more than 25% in the last
two tax years.  With continued low interest
rates people are turning towards investing
their annual ISA allowances into equities
and funds. The allowance currently stands
at £10,680 for a stocks and share ISA and
£5,340 for a cash ISA.  The launch of the
Junior ISA in November 2011 will broaden
the ISA market with the ability to save up
to £3,600 for each child.   
Each year our excellent customer service
results in net positive ISA transfers from
other ISA providers. Existing clients look
to gather their investments in one place
and transfer other ISAs they hold
elsewhere on to the Vantage Platform 
and new clients transfer as they look to
benefit from a better service than they
currently receive.
Regulation
The Chief Executive has highlighted
changes to the regulatory landscape, in
particular the FSA ’s Retail Distribution
Review and its latest update PS11/9. This
represented a significant U-turn in the
position on payments to Platforms.  The
proposals are scheduled to be introduced
in two phases.  Stage One will take effect
from 31 December 2012 relating to a range
of matters including qualification
standards for advisers, adviser charging,
disclosure of platform income, re-
registration standards and the provision of
unit-holder information. Stage Two will
relate to changes to Platforms. PS11/9
introduced uncertainty around payments
from fund groups and paying cash rebates
to investors. Further research is to be
carried out by the FSA and a definite
position will only be known at a future
date yet to be determined by the FSA.  This
we believe gives us ample time to consider
all our options carefully and at this stage
we believe that we have alternative
recurring revenue models already used in
the business that could be adapted to
mitigate the negative effects of any
potential changes. 
During the history of Hargreaves Lansdown
there have been many external factors
which could have adversely affected the
growth of the business. All of them, when
initially revealed, would have projected
serious pressure on profitability. Most of
these potentially harmful circumstances
revolved around the reduction of margin. In
every single case, our response resulted in
increased volumes of business which more
than compensated for any reduction in
margin. It is too early to say exactly how we
shall respond to what are just proposals
and not yet formalised. However, we
believe Hargreaves Lansdown’s experience,
business model and financial position will
enable us to accommodate these changes
without harmful effect on total profitability.
Competition
The markets in which Hargreaves
Lansdown operates are highly fragmented.
We compete with other businesses
providing investment products and
services direct to the private investor.
These include IFAs, execution-only
brokers, banks, building societies, life
assurers, fund supermarkets and certain
wrap platforms.  
We continuously monitor the competitor
landscape and react accordingly.  Given
the success of our business, we know that
direct competition is likely to increase and
expect this will expand the market.
Significant barriers to entry do exist.  We
have 30 years experience and have
developed the IT systems and
infrastructure in-house, both to facilitate
efficient administration and more
specifically to fulfil our clients’ needs of
which we have unparalleled knowledge.
The direct marketing reach is in excess of
1.5 million people, a contact list which
would be difficult to compile today. Our
reputation and brand is highly regarded
with clients, investors and industry
experts. Our significant client numbers
and AUA gives us significant economies of
scale allowing us to focus on aiming  to
provide the best service, information and
prices for our clients. 
Conclusion
The landscape of investing has changed
leaving our proposition the one that most
investors prefer. Many investors are less
concerned about personal advice and more
about information, service and price.  The
one service that investors have craved is
for their investments to be conveniently
held within the various tax wrappers.
Simplicity of valuation, dealing and
information for HMRC are all important
criteria that investors also seek.  It is our
view that no other proposition provides an
investor wish list as appropriately as
Vantage.
Tracey Taylor
Group Finance Director
13 September 2011
01/07/2010
01/08/2010
01/09/2010
01/10/2010
3400
3200
3000
2800
2600
2400
2200
2000
01/11/2010
2011                       2010
01/12/2010
01/01/2011
01/02/2011
01/03/2011
01/04/2011
01/05/2011
01/06/2011
FTSE All Share
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
21
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Principal risks and uncertainties
Like all businesses, the Group faces a
number of potential risks which, if not
properly controlled, could hinder the
successful implementation of its strategy
and have a material impact on the long-
term performance. The Board believes that
a successful risk management framework
balances risk and reward.  Within the
Group, responsibility for risk management
and internal control rests with the Board.
The Board and senior management of
Hargreaves Lansdown are proactive in
identifying, assessing and managing risk.
The Executive management implements
and maintains the systems of internal
controls.  Further details of our systems for
internal control and risk management can
be found in the Corporate Governance
statement.
The low risk profile of the business has not
changed significantly this year. One of our
highlighted risks each year is market
volatility and this has certainly been
experienced in 2011. Although the
markets remained volatile in 2011, they
did have an upward trend over the course
of the year to 30 June 2011. This was
beneficial as a significant part of Group
revenue is based on the value of client
investments. Market volatility remains an
accepted risk, although the high
percentage of assets in tax wrappers and a
cash option on our platform does reduce
the impact of such market turbulence on
our performance.     
In terms of regulatory risk, on 1 August
2011 the FSA issued a policy statement
PS11/9 “The Platform Paper”. In this
paper the FSA stated ”it would be
desirable, in principle, to ban payments by
product providers to platforms”. Payments
from product providers represent a
significant revenue stream. However, the
FSA has accepted that with such a ban
there could be unintended consequences
which might arise that are not yet fully
understood and hence they have not yet
made rules to introduce it. The FSA has
committed to carrying out further work
including careful consideration of the
impact on consumers, business model
analysis of the platforms market and
research into the way consumers engage
with this market before deciding on the
nature and appropriate timescale for
making any rules. The FSA has confirmed
that any rule changes will not come into
force before 31 December 2012. In
response to this proposal Hargreaves
Lansdown believes that if such a ban does
come in, (and there is no guarantee that it
ultimately will), there are a range of
recurring revenue models available and
currently used in the business, which
could be extended to mitigate the loss of
revenue from product providers. Such a
change to our revenue model can be made
whilst remaining highly competitive to
existing and potential clients. With any
rule changes only commencing from 2013
at the earliest, there is time to successfully
make a transition to an alternative model. 
The risk factors mentioned below do not
purport to be exhaustive as there may be
additional risks that the Group has not yet
identified or has deemed to be immaterial
that could have a material adverse effect
on the business.
Risk Type
Fluctuations in the
capital markets
Changing markets
and increased
competition
Fluctuations in capital markets may
adversely aﬀect trading activity and/or the
value of the Group’s assets under
administration or management, from which
we derive revenues.
The Group operates in a highly competitive
environment with developing demographic
trends and our continued proﬁtability
depends on our ability to respond to these
pressures and trends. 
• Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile
transaction-based alternative.
• High proportion of assets under administration in tax
wrappers so clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax
beneﬁts.
• Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
• Strong market position with pricing power. 
• Full control over ﬂexible platform.
• Experienced management team with a strong track record of
innovation and responsiveness to the market.
• Organisational structure and culture promotes
responsiveness.
• Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Industry Risks
Evolving technology The Group’s technology needs to remain
current if we are to develop and enhance
our systems to accommodate changing
preferences, new products and the
emergence of new industry standards.
• Track record of successful development.
• High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of
technology at Board level.
• Substantial development team in place.
• Scalability project team in place.
22
Back to contents        
Risk Type
Regulatory risk The Group may be materially adversely
aﬀected as a result of new or revised
legislation or regulations or by changes in
the interpretation or enforcement of
existing laws and regulations.
The Group will need to replace a signiﬁcant
revenue stream if the FSA bans payments
from product providers to platforms as
stated as a desirable intention in its Policy
Statement PS11/9.
• Strong compliance culture.
• Business model and culture geared towards FSA principle of
treating clients fairly.
• Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort
should the capital resource requirement be increased.
• Alternative recurring revenue models are already successfully
operated by the Group and these could be used to oﬀset the
potential reduction in revenue from product providers.
• There is no guarantee that such a ban on revenue from
product providers will ultimately be implemented as much
consultation will ﬁrst need to take place. This means there is
plenty of time to make representations and carefully review
and implement the most appropriate strategic change to our
revenue model that works for both our clients and the
proﬁtability of the Group.
• Competitive prices and service oﬀering will be maintained to
ensure business will not be lost to competitors many of
whom will in any case be faced with the same rule change
should it occur. 
Changes in
taxation law
Changes made to tax legislation could
reduce the attractiveness of some of the
Group’s investment products such as ISAs
and SIPPs.
• The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings
in order to plan for an ageing population, which is currently
under-provided for. This will create opportunities for SIPP
and ISA business.  
Damage to the
Group’s reputation
The risk of reputational damage through
the actions of unassociated third parties
(such as copycat websites to fraudulently
target client funds) needs to be minimised.
• Clients educated to improve awareness of potential ‘boiler
room’ and other online scams.
• Hargreaves Lansdown security procedures are well
communicated to clients so they are more likely to question
anything out of the ordinary.
• Ongoing intensive monitoring and response.
Errors, breakdowns
or security breaches
in respect of the
Group’s software or
information
technology systems
Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or
breakdowns in the Group’s software or IT
systems must be avoided.
• High level of resilience built into daily operations.
• IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top
priorities by the Board and are included in the IT Strategy.
• Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and
established name suppliers.
• Internal procedures benchmarked against industry best
practice.
Business continuity The risk of disruption to the business as a
result of IT or power failure, ﬁre, ﬂood, acts
of terrorism, re-location problems and
similar must be minimised.
• Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across
primary and secondary sites.
• Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice
methodologies and tested regularly.
Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Industry Risks continued
Damage to the
Group’s reputation
The risk of reputational damage from
employee misconduct, failure to manage
inside information or conﬂicts of interest and
fraud or improper practice must be controlled.
• High level of internal controls including checks on new staﬀ.
• Well trained staﬀ.
• Strong compliance culture.
Key personnel risk Key personnel must be recruited and
retained to prevent a material adverse
eﬀect on the Group’s business, results of
operations or ﬁnancial condition.
• Succession planning encouraged throughout the Group via
management and staﬀ objectives.
• Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
• A continuous programme of SAYE and other share option
schemes are in operation to incentivise staﬀ and encourage
retention.
Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Operational Risks
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
23
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Litigation or claims
made against the
Group
The Group needs to protect against the risk
of litigation from clients or third parties
and actions taken by regulatory agencies. 
• High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover. 
• Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing
literature. 
Reliance on third
parties 
Outsourced service providers must meet
appropriate standards to protect the Group
from the risk of regulatory sanctions and
reputational damage.
• Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key
suppliers.
• Ongoing review by our internal audit team of key business
partners.
Strategic risk Management must remain focused on
appropriate strategies and implement the
Group’s strategy eﬀectively.
• Very experienced management team, with a highly successful
track record to date.
• Management have demonstrated an excellent understanding
of the market and continue to monitor this eﬀectively
through regular dialogue with clients.
Liquidity risks The Group must remain able to meet
liabilities as they become due and be able
to liquidate assets or obtain adequate
funding as necessary.
• Highly cash generative business.
• Low working capital requirement.
• Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and
working capital requirements.
• Treasury management policy provides for the availability of
liquid funds at short notice.
Bank default Given the current economic climate and in
particular the unprecedented problems
faced by banks, the Group must protect
against the risk that a bank could fail.
• Only use banks with strong credit rating and ﬁnancial ratios
where we do not believe the Government would allow them to
fail.
• Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on
each.
• Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by
management.
Interest rate risks Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline
in interest rates.
• Access to competitive interest rates due to large value of cash
deposits placed.
• Regular ﬁxed high interest cash oﬀers available to clients.
Performance of
in-house managed
funds
Investment performance of the Hargreaves
Lansdown multi-manager funds needs to
remain good relative to the market or in
absolute terms, or the Group may be
vulnerable to outﬂows in those funds and a
consequential reduction in revenues.
• Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to
focus on core strength.
• Fund analysis focuses on ‘stock selection’ skills of manager
rather than basic performance analysis.
• Multi-manager funds well diversiﬁed at the underlying fund
level as well as by number of funds.
• Well established and proven investment process overseen by
an Internal Investment Committee. 
• Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad range
of underlying investments. They are therefore less vulnerable
to sector speciﬁc poor performance than specialised or
focused funds.
Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Operational Risks continued
Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors / Controls
Financial Risks 
24
Back to contents        
We use a range of indicators in order to assess performance.  We consider the following measures to be the key ﬁnancial indicators when
looking at the overall performance of the Group.  We refer to these measures throughout the Directors’ Report and Business Review. 
Strategy/objectives Performance indicator 2011 2010 +/- 
Growing the value of assets under Total assets under administration (AUA) £24.6bn £17.5bn +41%
administration and management
FTSE All-Share index (1) 3096.72 2543.47 +22%
Improving earnings quality Percentage of recurring revenue (2) 78% 72% +6%
Proportion of assets earning recurring revenue (3) 84% 86% -2%
Generating growth in Vantage Number of active Vantage clients (4) 380,000 330,000 +15%
Net new Vantage business inﬂows (5) £3.4bn £3.2bn +6%
Maintaining tight cost control and % underlying operating proﬁt margin (6) 61.3% 56.5% +4.5pts
operating eﬃciency
Shareholder value and superior Underlying diluted earnings per share (7) 20.0p 13.9p +44%
ﬁnancial performance
1. The closing values as at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010, sourced from ProQuote.
2. Total value of renewal commission, management fees and interest earned on client money, as a percentage of total revenue.
3. Percentage of assets either held in an account which generates a ﬁxed management fee or held in an account which generates management fees, renewal commission or
interest proportionate to the value of assets held.
4. Unique number of clients holding at least one Vantage account (ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account) with a value greater than £100 at the year end.
5. Net new business inﬂows represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less cash withdrawals, cash and stock transfers out.
6. Underlying operating proﬁt (before investment gains and excluding the additional FSCS levy and one-oﬀ costs relating to the new oﬃce) divided by revenue.
7 . Based upon earnings (before investment gains) and before the additional FSCS levy and one-oﬀ costs relating to the new oﬃce, and the weighted average fully diluted
share capital.
A key indicator of success for the Group is
the extent to which we have increased
total assets under administration (AUA)
during the period.  This involves
encouraging existing clients to entrust us
with more of their savings through the
provision of quality service, information
and pricing, whilst also attracting new
clients through our various marketing
initiatives.  
In 2011 the value of total assets under
administration grew by 41% from £17.5
billion to £24.6 billion. The 41% (2010:
47%) growth in asset values was
attributable to strong new business
volumes, combined with a significant
market increase. 
Analysis of our AUA suggests that the
FTSE All-Share index is an appropriate
benchmark to use for the market and so
any change in this index can form a useful
comparison against the growth in AUA.
The FTSE All-Share index rose by 22%
during the year ended 30 June 2011, from
2543.47 to 3096.72, adding to the 17%
increase in the prior year.  On average the
FTSE All-Share index has been 12%
higher than during the 2010 financial
year. The positive effect of the market has
assisted the growth in total AUA. 
The importance of AUA is that they
produce a recurring revenue stream made
up of renewal commission, management
fees and interest.  The percentage of
recurring revenue attributable to these
‘quality earnings’ increased from 72% in
2010 to 78% in 2011. The value of
recurring revenues increased by 42% from
£113.8 million to £161.2 million.  
Not all of our AUA generate recurring
revenue. So when looking at the growth in
total AUA, it is relevant to consider
another indicator; the proportion of
assets earning recurring revenue. This
has decreased from 86% in 2010 to 84%
in 2011. This can largely be attributed to
the substantial value (£1.9 billion, 2010:
£1.1 billion) of Hargreaves Lansdown
shares in the Fund and Share account
which, like all equities in this account, do
not generate any recurring revenue. 
The indicators mentioned above provide a
useful measure of how successful the
Group has been in gathering AUA.
However, it does not give any indication of
whether this success is predominantly due
to effective cross selling to existing clients
and their increasing wealth or whether the
Group is successfully adding to its client
bank. This is essential in order to replace
natural client losses and expand the
business.  The number of active 
Vantage clients acts as an indicator of
how successful the Group has been in 
this respect. In 2011, the number has
increased by 15% (2010: 17%) and as at
30 June 2011 stood at 380,000. 
The operating proﬁt margin is another 
key financial indicator, increasing from
53.7% to 59.8%. Alternatively using the
underlying operating profit margin,
where we exclude the additional FSCS
levy in 2011 and the one-off costs relating
to the new offices in 2010, the increase is
from 56.5% to 61.3%. 
The Group’s revenue, predominantly
derived from asset values, has been able 
to grow quicker than costs. The efficiency
of the Vantage platform is central to the
scalability of the business model.
We consider the underlying diluted
earnings per share figure, adjusted to
exclude the impact of investment gains
the additional FSCS levy and the one-off
costs of the new office, to be the most
appropriate measure of performance.  
This increased by 44% in the year from
13.9 pence to 20.0 pence.
Key performance indicators
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
25
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Improving ﬁnancial capability
The Board agreed in 2009 to provide
support of £30,000 p.a. for five years to a
project that, like our own business, seeks
to encourage savings and financial
awareness.  The supported project
provides these services in deprived areas
within Bristol.
Putting clients ﬁrst 
There is a culture in the business that has
existed for many years to which all
employees adhere to. At the heart of the
culture is to always put the client first.
This culture is nurtured and conveyed to
all new employees and existing employees
on a regular basis. As part of this culture
we actively monitor all areas of the
business via monthly and quarterly
reporting to ensure that we are “Treating
Clients Fairly”.
One way to ensure that we are getting
things right with clients is to listen to them
and the changes they would like to see to
our services. We also conduct client
satisfaction surveys and the most recent
one in June 2011 revealed that 96% rated
our service as good or better.
Reducing energy consumption  
Our newly built office has ‘chilled beam’
air conditioning, which is up to 60% more
energy efficient and also utilises
technology to manage lighting in a
manner which minimises wastage.  We
will continue to introduce energy-efficient
schemes and look at ways of optimising
the energy performance of our business
and in reducing our electricity usage. Our
electricity usage is not high enough to
mean that we have to participate in the
Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC)
Energy Efficiency Scheme. This scheme
was compulsory for UK organisations that
consumed over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly
metered electricity for the period January
2008 to December 2008.  During that
period we consumed well below that level
and for the year-ended 30 June 2011 we
had consumed only 3,058 MWh. Although
we do not set a formal target for the
reduction in electricity consumption the
ethos of the company is such that we
always try to keep energy consumption to
a minimum.
Business travel is another area which
impacts both our costs and the
environment.  We do not provide company
cars as standard to managers or to our
network of advisers. These advisers are
spread throughout the UK which
minimises travel time and carbon
emissions. We provide a telephone advice
service to handle those cases where a
face-to-face meeting is unnecessary.
Eﬃciency and minimising
environmental impact 
In many respects, our objective of
reducing waste and minimising the
environmental impact of our business is
aligned with our objectives of protecting
client data, reducing costs, and improving
efficiency. It is our aim to deal with clients
and other businesses electronically
wherever possible and we have invested
heavily in providing a user friendly,
comprehensive website and automated
links to banks and fund providers.  We
provide the facility for clients to opt out of
receiving paper valuations and contract
notes. Instead these documents are now
available in electronic format through our
secure website. Our investment in this
area will continue and we aim to further
reduce the amount of paper we use whilst
providing better service.  The benefits will
grow as more people and businesses
choose to transact business and receive
information online.
As at 30 June 2011 39% of our Vantage
clients were registered as paperless
whereby they receive all contract notes
and statements online (30 June 2010:
33%).
83% of equity deals were placed online in
the year to 30 June 2011 compared to
79% in the previous year.
We are also aiming to automate other
processes such as ISA and SIPP transfers.
These currently involve movement of
paperwork between various parties
around the United Kingdom. The aim
would be to ultimately get such transfers
all processed online and we are actively
pushing for a workable solution that will
enable an automated online transfer
process.
Recycling
We continue to shred and recycle
confidential waste and have arrangements
for the collection of recyclable waste such
as printer toner cartridges, cardboard,
plastics, newspapers and out-of-date
literature.  We also continue to recycle
redundant IT equipment through
specialist third parties.
Communities
The Group essentially seeks to contribute
to the communities in which we live and
work. In addition to providing
employment opportunities, we continue to
support the local community initiative to
promote financial capability as described
above. The Group also make significant
tax payments which help society as a
whole. Corporation and payroll taxes paid
in respect of the year ended 30 June 2011
were over £48 million (£2010: £39
million) in addition to other taxes such as
VAT, stamp duty and business rates.
Corporate social responsibility 
The Board considers that the environmental risk from direct actions
taken by the Group is minimal, and that the main social responsibility
focus should be on the Group’s clients and staff, including improving
the financial capability of the UK public.  Information on the Group’s
employment policies and client service is detailed in the Directors’
Report: other information section.  We appreciate the need to
continually reduce the impact of our business on the environment and
we aim to improve on the positive steps we have already taken and
ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken
into account in our future decision making.  
26
Back to contents        
As the UK approaches the momentous
occasion of hosting the 2012 Olympics the
Group decided to support a grass-roots
sports club. A monthly donation is made
to the Bristol & West Athletics Club which
is the leading all round athletics club in
the Southwest of England, providing
coaching and competition for the widest
range of events, for all age groups and all
abilities throughout the year.
We have sponsored a sculpture of a gorilla
which is exhibited at the entrance to our
office. This is in recognition of Bristol
Zoo’s 175th birthday. The sponsorship
and the subsequent auction proceeds from
the sculpture will go to Bristol’s Wallace &
Gromit appeal which supports the Bristol
Children’s Hospital.
As with last year we are again supporting
two teams of staff from Hargreaves
Lansdown who are competing in the
Invesco Perpetual Highland Adventure
Race in September of this year. This is a
challenging event, facilitating team
bonding whilst raising money for the
Mitchemp Trust, which aims to provide
outdoor adventure programmes for youths
in order to help give them hope,
confidence and life skills to meet the
challenges in their lives.
Every year we receive many requests for
support from a wide range of charitable
and social groups. Though often very
worthy causes, unfortunately we are not
able to make a donation to them all.  
Other than the above, we have made it
company policy to support only one
charity or non-profit organisation each
year which is selected from suggestions
received from employees within the
Group. During the first part of the
financial year we continued to support
last year’s chosen charity, Bristol’s 
Under Privileged Children’s Charity and
from February 2011 the new chosen
charity was “Cots for Tots”. This is being
run by the Wallace & Gromit appeal and is
aiming to raise £1 million for the special
care baby unit. All of our fund raising
initiatives are now focused on this charity.
Total donations to charity for the year-
ended 30 June 2011 were £51,000 
(2010: £30,000).
The sponsorship and the
subsequent auction proceeds
from the sculpture will go to
Bristol’s Wallace & Gromit
appeal which supports the
Bristol Children’s Hospital.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
27
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Board of Directors 
Michael Evans, FIA
Chairman, 50
Appointed Chairman in 
December 2009
Michael became a non-executive director of the Company in September 2006. Michael
is a qualiﬁed actuary with 27 years' industry experience. He has recently completed a
two year assignment as director of life insurance at Pinsent Masons LLP . Michael was
formerly Chief Operating Oﬃcer at Skandia UK Limited.
Non-Executive Director of ING Real Estate Investment Management (UK) Limited.
Ian Gorham, ACA
Chief Executive Oﬃcer, 39
Appointed CEO in 
September 2010
Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 as Chief Operating Oﬃcer. Ian qualiﬁed as a
Chartered Accountant in 1996. Previously he helped build Deloitte's UK ﬁnancial
services operations and was Head of Grant Thornton's UK ﬁnancial services business.
Ian has worked with many ﬁnancial services companies on a wide range of strategic
and operational matters.
No external Director appointments.
Tracey Taylor, FCCA MSI
Group Finance Director, 39
Appointed Group Finance Director in
November 2008
Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.  Her responsibilities within the Group
have included systems, group ﬁnance, treasury, client accounting and the company
secretarial function. In 2006 Tracey was appointed to the role of Group Accounting
Director and to the Executive Committee before being appointed to the main Board in
2008. Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualiﬁed as an accountant in 1994
before working for LloydsTSB. 
No external Director appointments.
Peter Hargreaves, FCA
Executive Director, 64
Appointed to his current role in
September 2010 (formerly CEO)
Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the Group
until September 2010. Previously, he qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant and worked
for KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread Plc.
Non-Executive director of ITM Power Plc.
Jonathan Bloomer, FCA
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, 57
Appointed Non-Executive Director in
September 2006. Chairman of the Audit
Committee, Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee
Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential plc. He also spent twenty years in practice
with Arthur Andersen LLP . Jonathan was Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FSA.
His previous positions also include board membership of the Association of British
Insurers, Geneva Association (International Association for the Study of Insurance
Economics) and Railtrack plc. 
Jonathan is a Partner in Cerberus European Capital Advisers LLP , Executive Chairman of
Lucida Plc, Chairman of Scottish RE Group Ltd, non-executive director of Autonomy Plc.
Chris Barling, BSc
Non-Executive Director, 55
Appointed Non-Executive Director in
August 2010. Member of the Audit
Committee, Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee
Chris became a non-executive director of the Company in August 2010. Chris has over
30 years’ IT industry experience and formerly held senior IT roles in Cable & Wireless
and Reuters. He is the co-founder of Actinic, the software company specialising in
ecommerce solutions for SMEs.
Chairman of Private Software Limited, and wholly owned subsidiaries, including Actinic
Software Limited, and director of WorriedNow Limited. 
Stephen Lansdown, FCA, FSI
Non-Independent 
Non-Executive Director, 59
Appointed to his current role in 
August 2010 (formerly Chairman)
Stephen co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981, and was Chairman of the Group
until November 2009. Previously, he qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant in 1975 and
specialised in taxation with Touche Ross & Co.  Stephen is a Fellow of the Securities &
Investment Institute.  
His other directorships are Pula Limited, Pula Properties Limited, Sustainable Technology
Guernsey Limited, Willoughby (481) Limited and St James Parade (122) Limited.
28
Back to contents        
Corporate Governance Statement 
The Board is responsible for:
> determining the strategic direction of
the Group 
> determining risk appetite 
> monitoring financial, risk and
operating performance; and 
> engaging with shareholders
The executive directors are directly
responsible for running the business
operations.  The non-executive directors
are responsible for constructively
challenging proposals on strategy,
scrutinising the performance of
management, determining levels of
remuneration and for succession
planning for the executive directors.
The non-executive directors must also
satisfy themselves on the integrity of
financial information and that financial
controls and systems of risk management
are robust.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are
delegated to the Board Committees to assist
the Board in carrying out its functions and
to ensure independent oversight of internal
control and risk management.  Other non-
board committees form part of the
Corporate Governance framework, but are
not formally appointed committees of the
Board. These Committees feedback to the
main Board and Board Committees via an
executive Director where appropriate.
Corporate Governance framework
The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is outlined in the diagram below and set out
in the report that follows. The Group’s internal control and risk management framework is described below in
the Internal Controls section.
Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board
Executive Committee
Audit 
Committee
Investment 
Committee
Treasury 
Committee
Interest Rate 
Committee
IT Steering 
Group
Risk 
Committee
External audit
Internal audit
Non-Board Committees
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Board 
Committees
1. Composition of the Board
The Code states that at least half of the
Board, excluding the Chairman, should
comprise independent non-executive
directors.  We did not comply throughout the
year. As reported last year, having appointed
Chris Barling on 26 August 2011 we were
satisfied that a Board of eight directors,
including four non-executive directors of
whom three were independent, and which
benefitted from the presence of the two
founders who are also the largest
shareholders was a very strong Board. We
recognise that challenge from an effective
independent non-executive team is
important to the success of the Group and
following the resignation of Jonathan Davis
at the end of December, the Nominations
Committee commenced a search for a
replacement. Subject to regulatory approval,
we hope to announce the conclusion of this
search no later than the AGM which will add
two further independent non-executive
directors to the Board.  
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
During the year ended 30 June 2011, Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code
(“the Code”) with the following exceptions:
The timeline below indicates the composition of the Board throughout the period:
Non-Compliant
One independent non-executive chairman
Two independent non-executive directors
Three executive directors
Compliant
One independent non-executive chairman
Three independent non-executive
directors
One non-independent non-executive
directors
Three executive directors
Non-Compliant
One independent non-executive chairman
Two independent non-executive directors
One non-independent non-executive
directors
Three executive directors
30.6.10 26.8.10 31.12.10 30.6.11
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
29
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
2. Composition of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees
The Code states that there should be at
least 3 independent non-executive
directors on the Audit and Remuneration
Committees.  For the period from 30 June
2010 to 26 August 2010, and from 31
December 2010 we did not comply with the
Code.  The recruitment of the two further
independent non-executive directors to the
Board and their appointment to the Audit
and Remuneration Committees will bring
us back into compliance.
The Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP , is
required to review whether the above
statement reflects the Company’s
compliance with the provisions of the UK
Corporate Governance Code specified for
its review by the Listing Rules and to report
if it does not reflect such compliance; no
such report has been made.
Statement about applying the
principles of the Code
We have applied the both the main principles
and supporting principles set out in the Code,
by complying with the Code as reported
above.  Further explanation of how the
principles and supporting principles have
been applied is set out in this Corporate
Governance statement and in the Directors’
Remuneration report.   A copy of the Code is
publicly available on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. 
The Board
Board size, composition and changes
during the year
As at 30 June 2011 there were seven
Directors on the Board: the Chairman, two
other independent non-executive directors,
one non-independent non-executive
director and three executive directors. The
size and composition of the Board is
regularly reviewed by the Board and, in
particular the Nominations Committee, to
ensure that there is an appropriate and
diverse mix of skills and experience.
During the year, the following changes
were made:
• Peter Hargreaves stepped down as Chief
Executive Officer on 2 September 2010
taking on the role of Executive Director.
• Ian Gorham (previously Chief Operating
Officer) was appointed as Chief
Executive Officer on 2 September 2010.
• Jonathan Davis retired from the Board
as a non-executive director on 31
December 2010.
• Stephen Lansdown was appointed as a
non-independent non-executive
director on 26 August 2010 and
stepped down as an executive director
on the same date.
• Chris Barling was appointed as an
independent non-executive director on
26 August 2010.
Chris Barling has become Chairman of
Private Software Limited, and wholly
owned subsidiaries, including Actinic
Software Limited (previously director),
and a director of WorriedNow Limited.
Stephen Lansdown has become director of
Pula Limited and Pula Properties Limited.
There have been no other changes to the
other directorships held by the Board
during the year.  More details on our
Board members, including other
directorships, are on page 28.
Independence of non-executive
directors
The Code sets out the circumstances that
should be relevant to the Board in
determining whether each non-executive
director is independent. We have given due
regard to provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate
Governance Code and the Board has
concluded that Chris Barling was
independent on appointment in August
2010, and that he and Jonathan Bloomer
were both independent directors throughout
the financial year.  Michael Evans was
independent on appointment as Chairman.
Jonathan Bloomer is currently the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director.  
The Board has previously required all non-
executive directors to be independent in
their judgement and free from any business
or other relationship that could interfere
with the exercise of objective judgement.
Although Stephen Lansdown cannot be
considered to be independent due to being
co-founder and former executive Chairman
of the Group, we believe that his
appointment as a non-executive Director
adds significant benefit to the Board and
that his wealth of experience more than
offsets his non-independent status.
The terms of reference of the non-executive
directors are available for inspection at the
Company’s registered office and during the
Annual General Meeting.
Roles and responsibilities of the Board
The Board has overall responsibility for the
management and performance of the Group,
and ensuring adequate succession planning
for senior management.  It sets the strategic
direction of the Group, determines the 
appropriate risk appetite, and ensures that
sufficient resources are in place to achieve
the objectives set.  The Board reviews 
performance, including that of the 
management team and senior executives. It
is the decision-making body for all other
matters deemed material to the Group in
strategic, financial and reputational terms.
The non-executive directors constructively
challenge the management team and 
supplement the executive directors' 
management expertise with a diversity of
business skills and experience. 
The Directors are also responsible for
ensuring that obligations to shareholders
and other stakeholders are understood and
met, and that a satisfactory dialogue with
shareholders is maintained. All Directors
are equally accountable to our
shareholders for the proper stewardship 
of our affairs and the success of the
Company.
Except for a formal schedule of matters
reserved for decision by the Board, the Board
has delegated the day-to-day management
of the Group to the Chief Executive who is
supported by the Executive Committee and
senior executives.  The Chief Executive and
executive directors of the Group are
responsible to the Board for developing
strategy and the profitability and overall
performance of the Group. 
There is a documented schedule of matters
which are reserved for Board decision and
approval. These matters are significant to
the Group as a whole due to their strategic,
financial or reputational implications, and
include, but are not limited to, the agreement
of strategies, recommendation of dividends,
approval of acquisitions and major capital
expenditure. In addition, it is only the Board
who can appoint and remove Directors and
our Company Secretary. The Board also has
overall responsibility for the Group’s system
of internal controls and risk management.
Risk management arrangements are
described below.
The roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief
30
Back to contents        
Executive are clearly defined, separate and
approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the
operation, leadership and governance of
the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and
setting its agenda.  In conjunction with the
Chief Executive and Company Secretary,
the Chairman plans agenda items and
timings for Board meetings. The Chairman
ensures that the membership of the Board
is appropriate to the needs of the business
and that Board committees carry out their
duties, including reporting back to the
Board.
The Chief Executive has executive
responsibilities for the operations, results
and strategic development of the Group. He
is responsible for the delivery of strategy
and leads the executive management team.
Board support
The Company Secretary is responsible to the
Board for ensuring Board procedures are
followed, applicable rules and regulations
are complied with and that the Board is
advised on governance and relevant
regulatory matters.  All Directors have access
to the services of the Company Secretary.    
In order for Directors to fulfil their duties
they can also seek independent professional
advice, at the Company’s expense.  
Board meetings 
The Board convenes at least four times
each financial year, and five times in the
last financial year.
Meetings are held in such a way as to
encourage robust and constructive
challenge and debate which enables the
non-executive directors to use their
knowledge and experience to critically
review strategies proposed by
management.  This approach ensures that
we act in the long-term best interests of our
shareholders.
Between Board meetings, Directors are
provided with monthly information packs
which include detailed commentary and
analysis.  To ensure that Directors are as
fully informed as possible, minutes are
circulated from each Committee, including
the Executive Committee, and each Board
meeting includes a report from the
Committees as appropriate.  The Chairman
and non-executive directors have also held
meetings separate to those with the
executive Directors, including meeting with
the external auditor and the Head of
Internal Audit. 
Directors
Under the existing Articles of Association
all directors have to submit themselves for
re-election annually if they wish to
continue serving and are considered by the
Board to be eligible.   All current directors
wish to be re-elected and the Board confirms
that all individual performance reviews
demonstrated that the directors continue to
demonstrate effective performance and
commitment to their roles.
The Company maintains insurance cover
for up to £2 million for all directors and
officers of Group companies against
liability which may be incurred acting as
directors and officers.
Training
Our Chairman is responsible for preparing
and implementing a personalised
induction programme for all new Directors,
to include guidance as to their duties,
responsibilities and liabilities as a director
of the Company.  We believe that the best
way to learn about a business is to spend
time within it, and we encourage new
Directors to spend time with our senior
managers and executives in a number of
business areas and to receive
demonstrations of key operations and
systems where relevant. 
Our overall objective is to maintain and
enhance professional standards for all our
employees.  We believe that these
standards are particularly important for all
staff who fall under the scope of the
Financial Services Authority Training and
Competence rules.  All staff under the
scope of these rules are required to perform
certain training during a year.  
Every director has access to appropriate
training throughout their appointment as
director and we regularly assess the
requirement for director training as part of
each director’s annual appraisal.
Board eﬀectiveness and 
performance evaluation
The Code recommends that an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the Board and its
Committees is conducted annually and that
the process is externally facilitated at least
every third year.  The Board carried out an
internally facilitated board effectiveness
review in the year. The Review was led by
the Chairman and covered the effectiveness
of the Board as a whole, its individual
Directors and its Committees.  The outcome
of the review was positive, with no
significant areas for concern. The main
area given further consideration was the
future structure and size of the Board, and
in particular the desired skills and
competencies needed to enhance the
Board’s existing skill sets.  These were key
selection criteria used during the search for
new non-executive directors.  
Individual appraisal of each director’s
performance is undertaken by either the
Chief Executive or Chairman each year and
involves meetings with each director on a
one-to one basis.   The non-executive
directors, led by the senior independent
director, carry out an appraisal of the
performance of the Chairman.  The Chief
Executive’s performance was evaluated by
the Chairman and the non-executive
director team with input from the executive
Directors.
Board committees
This section of the report sets out how the
Board and its Committees work within the
Group’s governance framework and
corporate governance guidelines.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are
delegated to the Board Committees to assist
the Board in carrying out its functions and
to ensure independent oversight of internal
control and risk management. The three
principal Board Committees (Audit,
Remuneration, and Nomination) play an
essential role in supporting the Board in
fulfilling its responsibilities. The minutes of
each Board Committee meeting are
circulated and noted by the Board.  
The Board Committees all have formal Terms
of Reference that have been approved by the
Board, and performance of the Committees
is assessed annually by the Board.  Each
Committee’s terms of reference sets out the
specific matters for which delegated
authority has been given by the Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed
annually and the terms of reference of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committee are available on the Group’s
website (www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations).
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
31
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
A summary of the terms of reference for
each committee is included in the
committee summaries below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for
assisting the Board in discharging its
responsibilities for:
• monitoring of the financial reporting
process including the integrity of the
annual and interim reports,
preliminary results and any other
formal announcements relating to
financial performance; 
• risk reporting; 
• reviewing the Group’s internal
financial controls and the Group’s
internal control and risk management
systems; 
• monitoring and reviewing the
effectiveness of the Group’s Internal
Audit function;
• making recommendations to the
Board, for a resolution to be put to the
shareholders for their approval in
general meetings; in relation to the
appointment of the external auditor
and the approval of the remuneration
and terms of engagement of the
external auditor; and
• reviewing and monitoring the external
auditor’s independence and objectivity
and the effectiveness of the audit
process, taking into consideration
relevant UK professional and
regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee is required to report
its findings to the Board, identifying any
matters in respect of which it considers
that action or improvement is needed, and
make recommendations as to the steps to
be taken.
The Audit Committee has also continued
to monitor our public interest disclosure
(Whistleblowing) policy which contains
details of the process by which employees
can raise, in confidence, complaints on
accounting, risk issues, internal controls,
auditing issues and related matters for
reporting to the Audit Committee as
appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will
be available at the Annual General
Meeting to answer any questions about
the work of the Committee.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee at 30
June 2011 were:
Jonathan Bloomer - 
Chairman (Chartered Accountant) –
appointed 18 September 2006
Chris Barling – 
appointed 26 August 2010
On an on-going basis, membership of the
Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of
the Committee at regular intervals and any
recommendations for new appointments
are made to the Nomination Committee for
onward recommendation to the Board.
Appointments are for a period of three
years and are extendable by no more than
two additional three year periods. The
Audit Committee structure requires the
inclusion of one financially qualified
member and our Committee Chairman
currently fulfils this requirement.   
The Board expects the Audit Committee
members to have an understanding of:
• the principles of financial reporting
including applicable accounting
standards and statements of
recommended practice;
• key aspects of the Group’s operations
and systems of internal control;
• matters that influence or distort the
presentation of accounts and key
figures;
• the principles of, and developments in,
company law, sector-specific laws and
other relevant corporate legislation;
• the role of internal and external
auditing and risk management;
• the regulatory framework for the
Group’s businesses; and
• environmental and social responsibility
best practices.
The Board is satisfied that all of the
Committee’s members have a level of recent
and relevant commercial and financial
knowledge and experience to satisfy the
provisions of the Code, by virtue of their
having held various executive and non-
executive roles in investment management
and business management.  The Group
provides an induction programme for new
Audit Committee members and on-going
training to enable all of the Committee
members to carry out their duties.  The
induction programme covers the role of the
Audit Committee, its terms of reference and
expected time commitment by members,
and an overview of the Group’s business,
including the main business and financial
dynamics and risks.  New Committee
members also meet some of the Group’s
staff, as appropriate.  On-going training
includes attendance at formal conferences,
internal briefings and briefings by external
advisers.
Meetings
The Audit Committee meets at least four
times each year but more frequently when
required, and met four times during this
financial year.  The attendance by each
director is set out in the table on page 34.
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit,
Group Compliance Director, Group Finance
Director and Chief Executive are routinely
invited to, and attend, the majority of
meetings, although the Committee reserves
the right to request any of these individuals
to withdraw.  The external auditors also
attended all meetings, and periodically the
Committee also meets privately with the
external auditor and the Head of Internal
Audit.
Overview of the actions taken by 
the Audit Committee to discharge 
its duties:
During the 12 months to 30 June 2011 the
Audit Committee has undertaken the
following key responsibilities:
• reviewed the financial statements in the
2010 reports and accounts and the
interim report issued in February 2011.
As part of this review the Committee
received a report from the external
auditor on its audit of the annual
reports and accounts and review of the
interim report;
• received updates from the Risk
Committee and considered the output
from the Group-wide process used to
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks;
• reviewed the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal controls and
disclosures made in the annual report
and accounts on this matter;
• reviewed and agreed the terms of
engagement of the audit work to be
undertaken by the external auditors;
• considered a report from the external
auditor on its observations of controls
across the Group;
• agreed the fees to be paid to the
external auditor for its audit of the
32
Back to contents        
2011 accounts and interim report and
reviewed the confirmation of auditor
independence;
• undertaken an evaluation of the
performance of the Internal Audit
function and reviewed the level and
nature of non-audit activity performed
by Internal Audit;
• reviewed the qualification and
experience of the Internal Audit
department so that they can deliver an
agreed programme of work;
• undertaken an evaluation of the
performance of the external auditor;
• received reports from the Head of
Internal Audit and Group Compliance
Director on the work undertaken by
Internal Audit and management
responses to proposals made in the
audit reports issued by the function
during the year; 
• reviewed the Group’s Internal Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process
(‘ICAAP’) report;
• reviewed the Group’s ‘Living Will’; and
• reviewed its own effectiveness.
External Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for the
development, implementation and
monitoring of the Group’s policy on
external audit.  The policy assigns
oversight responsibility for monitoring the
independence, objectivity and compliance
with ethical and regulatory requirements to
the Audit Committee, and day to day
responsibility to the Group Finance
Director.  The policy states that the external
auditor is jointly responsible to the Board
and the Audit Committee and that the
Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Group’s policy on external audit can be
found on the Group’s website at
www.hl.co.uk.  It sets out the categories of
non-audit services which the external
auditor will and will not be allowed to
provide to the Group, subject to de minimis
levels and Audit Committee Chairman
approval.  The level of non-audit fees
during 2011 was £nil (2010: £nil).
The tenure of the current external auditor,
Deloitte, is 5 years.  The tenure of the
current audit partner is 2 years.  Having
conducted a review of the independence
and the effectiveness of the external
auditor the Audit Committee has
recommended to the Board that they are re-
appointed.
Internal Audit Function
The Audit Committee is required to assist the
Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to
the adequacy of the resourcing and plans
of the Internal Audit department.  Having
conducted a review of the Internal Audit
department the Committee is happy with
its resources and plans. The previous Head
of Internal Audit resigned on 31 March
2011, and a replacement has now been
appointed.  During the intervening period,
the Compliance Director was responsible
for the Internal Audit Function.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for the framework or broad policy for the
fair remuneration of the executive directors
of the Company and its subsidiaries as well
as their performance management. The
policy is determined with due regard to the
interests of the Company and the
Shareholders.  The Committee makes
recommendations to the Board.  No director
plays a part in any discussion about his or
her own remuneration.  The Remuneration
Committee will meet at least twice per year
and is governed by formal Terms of
Reference, which are reviewed annually. 
The Remuneration Committee met five
times during this financial year.  The
attendance by each director is set out in the
table on page 34.  Chris Barling was
appointed to the Committee on joining the
Board on 26 August 2010.  Jonathan Davis
left the Committee when he stepped down
from the Board on 31 December 2010.  The
Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer
and its other members at 30 June 2011
were Michael Evans and Chris Barling.
None of the Committee has any personal
financial interest (other than as
shareholders), conflicts of interests arising
from cross-directorships or day-to-day
involvement in running the business.
The Committee’s purpose is to:
• determine and recommend to the Board
the remuneration policy for the
executive Directors of the Company and
of the subsidiary companies;
• ensure the level and structure of
remuneration is designed to attract,
retain, and motivate the executive
Directors needed to run the Company
and the Group; and 
• monitor the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management.
The performance measurement of the
Directors and key members of senior
management and the determination of
their annual remuneration package are
undertaken by the Committee.  The
Committee also ensures that the
remuneration relationship between the
Directors and senior employees of the
Company is appropriate.  Any exceptional
remuneration arrangements for senior
employees are advised to the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee leads the process
for Board appointments, re-election and
succession of directors and the Chairman.  
It is responsible for making recommendations
to the Board concerning the composition
and skills of the Board including proposed
appointees to the Board, whether to fill any
vacancies that may arise or to change the
number of Board members. 
The Committee is chaired by Jonathan
Bloomer and its other members at 30 June
2011 were Michael Evans and Chris
Barling.   The Nomination Committee meets
at least twice each year and the Committee
met four times during the year.  The
attendance by each director is set out in the
table on page 34.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent
procedure for the appointment of new
directors to the Board. The process involves
the Nomination Committee interviewing
suitable candidates who are proposed by
existing Board members, by an external
search company, or via searches performed
by the Company itself.  Consideration will
be given to ensure appointees have enough
time available to devote to the role and that
the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience on the Board will be
maintained.  When the Committee has
found a suitable candidate, the Chairman
of the Committee will make a proposal to
the whole Board and the appointment is
the responsibility of the whole Board
following recommendation from the
Committee. 
During the year the activities of the
Committee have included:
• reviewing its terms of reference;
• reviewing the requirements for
potential independent non-executive
candidates;
• formulating of appropriate succession
plans; and
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
33
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
• making recommendations to the Board
with regard to the appointment of
directors.
In light of our non-compliance with the Code
in respect of the composition of the Board, the
Committee has recommended the recruitment
of a further two non-executive directors.  As
we have had great success in recruiting from
our client base previously, the Committee
have again decided it is appropriate to
advertise the positions to a subset of our
clients.  An initial mailing of some 6,500
clients has resulted in approximately 110
high quality applications.  Following the
selection criteria laid down by the
Committee, and after two rounds of
interviews, we have identified two preferred
candidates who we are in discussion with to
potentially appoint in the near future.
Other committees
These committees form part of the Corporate
Governance framework, but are not formally
appointed non-executive committees of the
Board.  The two main Committees are the
Executive Committee and the Risk Committee:
Executive Committee
The Board has delegated full authority to
the Executive Committee subject to a list of
matters which are reserved for decision by
the full Board only.  In particular, the
Executive Committee is responsible to the
Chief Executive for developing and
monitoring every aspect of the Group’s
business on a continuing basis, for
developing and implementing business
strategy as agreed by the Board and
ensuring that day-to-day operations are
conducted in accordance with the relevant
regulatory and statutory requirements.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the
Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his
absence by Peter Hargreaves.  During the
year the committee also comprised the
Group Finance Director, Tracey Taylor, and
the following:
• Nigel Bence – Group Compliance
Director
• Theresa Barry – Group Marketing
Director 
• Alex Davies – Managing Director,
Corporate & Pensions 
• Nick Marson – Vantage and Broking
Operations Director; and 
• Ian Hunter – Investment Marketing
Director.  
Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee
Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are invited
to attend the Executive Committee.
Andrew Christian was a member of the
Committee until he left the Group on 2
August 2010, and Stephen Lansdown was
a member until he became a non-executive
director on 26 August 2010.  
Biographies of the above are available on
our website: www.hl.co.uk/investor-
relations.
The Executive Committee meets at least
quarterly but more frequently when
required, and met four times during the
current financial year.  The attendance by
each director is set out in the table below.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee is chaired by the
Group Compliance Director and also
comprises the Group Finance Director,
Chief Risk Officer and Head of IT.  The
Committee reports back to the Board and
the Audit Committee on the management of
the major risks facing the Group as
assessed against the Group’s Risk Appetite.
The Company also has a Treasury
Committee, which oversees changes to the
treasury management policy, an
Investment Committee, which monitors the
investments held in the HL multi-manager
funds, as well as an Interest Rate
Committee and an IT Steering Group.
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive
Meetings * Committee Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
Directors
Ian Gorham (1) 3/3 --- 4/4
Peter Hargreaves 3/4 --- 3/4
Tracey Taylor 4/4 --- 4/4
Michael Evans 4/4 1/1 5/5 4/4 -
Jonathan Bloomer 3/4 4/4 4/5 3/4 -
Jonathan Davis (2) 2/2 2/2 2/2 2/2 -
Chris Barling (1) 3/3 3/3 4/4 3/3 -
Stephen Lansdown 4/4 ----
Executive Committee
Theresa Barry ---- 3/4
Nigel Bence ---- 3/4
Alex Davies
---- 4/4
Nick Marson ---- 4/4
Ian Hunter ---- 4/4
Andrew Christian (2) ---- 1/1
*  Where Board meetings have been held for a speciﬁc purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment
by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice. In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, one additional meeting was held to dis-
cuss and approve changes to the Company’s share schemes.
(1) – attendance represents number of meetings held since date of appointment
(2) – attendance represents number of meetings held up until the date of resignation
34
Back to contents        
Relations with shareholders
We are committed to maintaining good
communications with our shareholders.
We have a programme of communication
with shareholders based on our financial
reporting calendar including the interim
and annual reports, Interim Management
Statements, the AGM and the Investor
Relations section of the corporate website
at www.hl.co.uk.  
In addition to this, the CEO, Group Finance
Director and Chairman meet with
institutional investors after results
announcements and upon request on an
ad-hoc basis during the year. They, together
with the Company Secretary, provide a
point of contact for investors who wish to
raise queries or concerns.  During the year
we have actively sought the views of major
investors on our recruitment process for
non-executive directors and have discussed
remuneration policy.
Jonathan Bloomer, our Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director, was also available
to meet key investors. 
Following dialogue with individual
institutional shareholders, the Chairman,
Chief Executive and the Group Finance
Director ensured the Board was fully
briefed on shareholders' views such that
any issues or concerns were fully
understood and considered by the Board.
Analyst and broker briefings are regularly
provided to the Board.  In addition, the
Group’s brokers sought feedback from
investors following the 2010 final and
2011 interim results, and this feedback
was reported to the Board.
All Directors made themselves available to
meet shareholders at our AGM and they
value the opportunity of welcoming
individual shareholders and other investors
to communicate directly and address their
questions.  
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all
general meetings separate resolutions are
proposed on each discrete subject.
Resolutions have been passed on a show of
hands, and proxy votes for, against and
withheld for each resolution are displayed
at the meeting.  Following the AGM, the
results of voting are published through a
Regulatory Information Service and on our
website.
Internal control framework 
The Board is responsible for the Group's
systems of internal control and risk
management and for reviewing their
effectiveness. The key features of which
are outlined in the chart above and
detailed below:
Terms of Reference
The Board operates within clearly 
defined terms of reference, and it 
reserves certain matters for its own
consideration and decision. It has
established appropriate committees to
oversee control activities.  These
committees also have clearly defined
terms of reference. The Board and
Committee processes are fundamental to
the effectiveness of our internal controls. 
Our business performance is monitored
closely by the Board and senior
management, in particular monitoring of:
• progress towards strategic objectives;
• financial performance, within a
framework including forecasting,
financial reporting, reviewing
variances against plan and taking
appropriate management action; and
• risk management processes. 
Terms of
reference
External
audit
Regulatory
supervision and
monitoring
Organisational 
structure and 
policies
Group Risk
Strategy
Management
Information
Risk
Committee
Remuneration
policy
Our values
and culture
Group
Finance
Group
Compliance
Internal
Audit
Internal control
framework
Internal controls 
Through the monitoring processes set out below, the Board has conducted a
review of the eﬀectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended
30 June 2011. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance as to the eﬀectiveness of the safeguards protecting the
business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.  In that context, the
review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineﬀective
or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the
date of approval of this Annual Report. However, in acknowledgement that the
business and the risks it faces are continually evolving and as part of a process of
continuous improvement, steps are being taken to further embed internal controls
and risk management into business operations. 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
35
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Organisational structure and policies
The Board regularly reviews the Group's
organisational structure to seek to ensure
that clearly defined lines of responsibility
exist, with appropriate delegation of
authority.  Periodic reviews take place to
ensure that staff of the right calibre are
employed, particularly in key roles.  Roles
and responsibilities are clearly
communicated to each member of staff
within their ‘Apportionment forms’.  These
are reviewed annually and updated if
necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the Group's
policies. The Group's Treasury function
operates within a well-defined policy
designed to manage the Group's liquidity
arrangements and to manage its exposure
to risks, such as interest rate risk and
counterparty risk.
Our public interest disclosure
(Whistleblowing) policy encourages
employees to raise concerns about
anything that they suspect is fraudulent,
corrupt, dangerous or seriously wrong.
They can raise concerns on a confidential
basis, enabling proportionate and
independent investigation to be
undertaken.
We thoroughly investigate any allegations
of misconduct and irregularity and
consider the implications for our control
environment. Due to the nature of our
business, Hargreaves Lansdown are
subject to attempted fraud on a regular
basis.  Strict processes and controls mean
that we are able to identify attacks and
deal with them appropriately on a timely
basis.  We are continually looking at ways
of making our clients’ transactions with us
more secure and have dedicated resource
within our Group Compliance team whose
focus is on managing client fraud risk.
Group Risk Strategy
The Group Risk Strategy requires senior
managers to identify, evaluate and
manage risks in their business units.
Regular meetings are held between
department managers and the Chief Risk
Officer to ensure that risk management
remains high on the agenda of the
business.  Target dates for resolution of
issues are continually monitored.  A
summary of significant risks is provided
within the Business Review. 
Risk management processes within the
Group accord with the Turnbull guidance,
and are supported by reports from the
Internal Audit function which include
focus on significant risks faced by the
Company. 
Management information
Detailed packs of key information are
circulated monthly to our senior
management and Non-executive Directors.
This includes key financial and
operational performance indicators.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee reports to the Board
and the Audit Committee on the
management of the major risks facing the
Group as assessed against the Group’s
Risk Appetite.
Remuneration policy
Risk management is imbedded into the
Apportionment Forms of every employee
and awareness and mitigation of the risks
faced by the Company are key factors used
to evaluate individual performance.   This
policy creates an environment which
ensures excessive risk taking is not
rewarded.
Employees also have the opportunity to
invest in regular Save As You Earn share
schemes as we believe that nothing better
will encourage employees to look after the
long-term future of the Company than
being shareholders themselves.   Similarly,
exceptional performance by key
employees and senior managers will be
rewarded with the grant of executive share
awards which we believe will not only
incentivise but will also assist retention of
key members of staff.
Our values and culture
Any system of internal control is
dependent on the people operating it.
‘Our Culture’ defines what we expect from
our people.  We pride ourselves on the
culture which exists within the Company.
We have a ‘one-firm’ mentality which
helps everyone take responsibility for the
whole of the business.   We have a saying
which says “.. success comes from putting
the client first, Hargreaves Lansdown
second and your department third.”  This
engenders service levels which many
other companies can only aspire to and
ensures that the requirements of our
clients are foremost in our employees’
decision making process.    
Group Finance
The Group Finance department manages
our financial reporting processes to ensure
the information which enables our Board
to discharge its responsibilities is provided
on a timely basis. It ensures cost controls
are in place and that the business
efficiently manages its resources.  It also
produces a financial forecast based on the
strategic and operational plans of the
business which is continuously reviewed
to determine the likely year-end outcome
and is used to plan and review regulatory
capital requirements. 
Group Compliance 
Our Compliance function manages
relationships with the Group's key
regulators alongside identifying major
compliance and regulatory risks.  Our
Money Laundering Reporting Officer
(MLRO) forms part of the Compliance team
and is responsible for ensuring we have
suitable anti-money laundering (AML)
procedures and controls.  The MLRO is
also responsible for ensuring adequate
AML training for all staff. The MLRO
specifically considers the risk of loss
through financial crime and the controls
in place to mitigate the risk of such loss.
Internal Audit
Our Internal Audit function reports to the
Audit Committee on the effectiveness of
key internal controls.
External audit and 
regulatory supervision
The majority of the activities of the Group,
including the systems of business control,
are subject to supervision by the Financial
Services Authority. The Group is required
on a regular basis to submit detailed
prudential and statistical returns covering
all areas of its business and meets
regularly with its supervisors, conducting
the relationship in an open and
constructive manner.
In addition to the above, the Audit
Committee also receives reports from our
external auditors.
36
Back to contents        
Directors’ report – other information
The Directors’ report and 
business review
Pages 1 to 39 inclusive of this Annual
report consist of a Directors’ report and
business review that has been drawn up
and presented in accordance with, and in
reliance on, English company law. The
liabilities of the Directors in connection
with that Directors’ report and business
review shall be subject to the limitations
and restrictions provided by the Companies
Act 2006.  
Forward-looking statements
The Directors’ report is prepared for the
members of the Company and should not
be relied upon by any other party or for any
other purpose. Where the Directors’ report
includes forward-looking statements, these
are made by the Directors in good faith
based on the information available to them
at the time of their approval of this report.
Consequently such statements should be
treated with caution due to the inherent
uncertainties, including both economic
and business risk factors, underlying such
forward-looking statements and
information.
Principal Group Activities
Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent
company of a group of companies which
offers a range of investment products,
investment services, financial planning
and advice to private investors and
advisory services to companies in respect
of group pension schemes. Further details
of the business activities are contained in
the Operational review on pages 17 to 21.
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group
during the year are listed in note 15 to the
financial statements.  The principal trading
subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Limited, Hargreaves
Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited,
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers
Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown
Pensions Direct Limited, are authorised
and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority.
Group Results and Company Dividends
Operating profit for the year ended 30 June
2011 was £124.4 million (2010: £85.4
million).  The Group profit after taxation for
the year ended 30 June 2011 was £91.9
million (2010: £61.3 million).  
Dividends are shown in note 10 to the
financial statements.  In addition to the
first interim dividend of 4.5 pence per
share, we have declared a second (final)
ordinary dividend of 8.41 pence per share,
taking the total 2011 ordinary dividend to
12.91 pence per share. This total dividend
payout equates to 65% (2010: 65%) of
post-tax profits. Our policy is not to
accumulate excess cash going forward and
we are pleased to declare a special final
dividend of 5.96 pence per share. This
equates to a further 30% (2010: 25%) of
post-tax profits. Any special dividend in
future years will depend upon future cash
requirements and therefore may vary.  
Client Service
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that
we treat our clients fairly in every aspect of
our dealings with them and to provide a
first class service at all times. Client service
is central to our corporate culture. We strive
to provide clear information to all our
clients and aim to ensure that our services
and investment performance meet our
clients’ expectations.  Service
improvements are designed and targeted
appropriately and we aim to ensure that
any advice we provide is suitable for our
clients. We never impose unreasonable
barriers to prevent clients from switching
their investments or from making a
complaint.
If clients ever feel the need to complain,
our complaints handling team carefully
investigates our client’s complaint and
endeavour to provide them with a fair
resolution. We benchmark our performance
in treating clients fairly against statistics
published annually by the Financial
Ombudsman Service for the industry. The
results for the 2011 financial year
compared to the last figures published by
the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves
Lansdown is achieving excellent results.
Complaints have fallen despite an increase
in client numbers.
Share Capital
The Company’s shares are listed on the
main market of the London Stock
Exchange.  The Company’s authorised and
issued share capital during the year and as
at 30 June 2011 is shown in note 21.  The
ordinary shares rank pari passu in all
respects.  Save as agreed at the Annual
General Meeting of the shareholders, the
ordinary shares have pre-emption rights in
respect of any future issues of ordinary
shares to the extent conferred by Section
561 of the Companies Act.  
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares
At the time of the flotation of the Company
during May 2007, the then directors of the
Company and directors of the subsidiary
companies gave undertakings not to offer,
sell or contract to sell, pledge or otherwise
dispose of ordinary shares (directly or
indirectly) which were held by them on
Admission to the main market of the
London Stock Exchange and not sold as
part of the flotation, other than in certain
limited circumstances.  The restrictions
have ceased to apply in their entirety
following the 2011 results announcement.
The restrictions in place during the year
were as follows:
• Following the results announcement
for the financial year of the Company
ending on 30 June 2010 but prior to the
Results Announcement for the financial
year of the Company ended on 30 June
2011, to such number of Shares as is
equal to 25 percent of the total number
of Locked-in Shares.  
Beneﬁcial owners of shares with
‘information rights’
Beneficial owners of shares who have been
nominated by the registered holder of those
shares to receive information rights under
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are
required to direct all communications to
the registered holder of their shares rather
than to the Company’s registrar, Equiniti
Registrars, or to the Group directly.
Directors Interests
During the period covered by this report,
no director had any material interest in a
contract to which the Company or any of its
subsidiary undertakings was a party other
than their own service contract, requiring
disclosure under the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 except in respect of
the rental of the office premises at Kendal
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
37
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
House as disclosed in note 26 to the
financial statements.
The directors who held office at 30 June
2011 had the following interests (including
beneficial interests) in the shares of the
Company.  These interests are exclusive of
any interests under Share Options. Details
of Share Options which have been granted
to directors as at the date of this report
pursuant to employee share schemes are
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 1 September 2011, the Company has
not been notified of any changes in
shareholdings amounting to more than 3
per cent of the issued share capital of the
Company. 
Model Code
The Company has its own internal dealing
rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules
Model Code provisions to all employees.
Supplier Payment Policy
The Company’s policy, which is also
applied by the Group, is to settle terms of
payment with suppliers when agreeing the
terms of each transaction, ensure that
suppliers are made aware of the terms of
payment and abide by the terms of
payment.  Trade creditors of the Group at
30 June 2011 were equivalent to 19 (2010:
19) days’ purchases, based on the average
daily amount invoiced by suppliers during
the year.
Employment Policies 
Health and welfare
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to
providing a safe and healthy environment
in which its employees can work.   We use
Health and Safety consultants on an
ongoing basis to ensure that standards are
maintained.  A new policy was released in
August 2010, following the move to our
new offices, and is available to all staff via
our intranet.
Employee consultation
Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages
employee involvement and consultation
and places emphasis on keeping its
employees informed of the Company’s
activities and financial performance by
such means as the employee intranet and
publication to all staff of relevant
information and corporate
announcements.  
Number and % of Number and % of
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
at 30 June 2011 at 30 June 2010
Non-executive directors
J Bloomer 15,625 (<0.01%) 15,625 (<0.01%)
C Barling --
M Evans 15,625 (<0.01%) 15,625 (<0.01%)
S Lansdown 95,500,000 (20.13%) 109,060,843 (22.99%)
Executive directors
I Gorham --
P Hargreaves 152,717,606 (32.20%) 152,717,606 (32.20%)
T Taylor 721,441   (0.15%) 721,441   (0.15%)
Total 248,970,297 (52.49%) 262,531,140 (55.35%)
38
Back to contents        
Equality and diversity
Hargreaves Lansdown recognises, respects
and values difference and diversity.  We are
an equal opportunities employer and it is
our policy to ensure that all job applicants
and employees are treated fairly and on
merit regardless of their race, colour,
nationality, ethnic origin, sex (including
gender reassignment), parental, marital or
civil partnership status, disability, religion
or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade
union membership.  
The Group seeks to ensure all employees
and applicants to its businesses are given
equal opportunity in all aspects of
employment to ensure that the Group's
businesses attract, retain and promote the
best available talent. All the businesses
work to embed these principles in all
aspects of their management practices and
to ensure that this is evident to employees
in their day-to-day work.  We offer tangible
support to our people, which includes
making arrangements for disabled
employees including those who may have
become disabled during the course of their
employment with us.  A full assessment of
the individual’s needs is undertaken and
reasonable adjustments are made to the
work environment or practices in order to
assist those with disabilities.
Annual General Meeting
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the
following two items of special business will
be tabled:
i) Authority to purchase own shares: The
Company was granted authority at the
AGM in 2010 to purchase its own
shares up to an aggregate value of 10%
of the issued nominal capital. This
authority expires at this year’s Annual
General Meeting and a special
resolution will be proposed for its
renewal.
ii) Directors’ authority to allot shares and
waiver of pre-emption rights:
Resolutions are to be proposed as
special business at the AGM on 26
November 2011 to enable the directors
to allot unissued shares and, subject to
the limits therein contained, to allot
shares for cash other than to existing
shareholders in proportion to their
shareholdings. 
The resolution enabling directors to allot
unissued shares will be limited to the
allotment of shares up to a maximum
nominal amount of £202,725.50, which
represented the difference between the
Company’s authorised and issued share
capital at 7 September 2011. The directors
do not have any present intention of
exercising such authority and the authority
will expire at the conclusion of the next
AGM after the passing of the proposed
resolution.  
The resolution enabling the directors to
allot shares other than to existing
shareholders in proportion to their
shareholdings is limited to the allotment of
shares up to a maximum nominal value of
£94,863.72, which represents 5% of the
total ordinary share capital in issue as at 7
September 2011. 
Both of these resolutions seek authorities
which are in accordance with the current
guidelines issued by the Investment
Committees of the Association of British
Insurers and the National Association of
Pension Funds.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their
willingness to continue in office as auditor
and a resolution to reappoint them will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
Going concern
The Directors have assessed, in the light of
current and anticipated economic
conditions, the Group’s ability to continue
as a going concern.  The principal risks that
the Group is challenged with have been set
out on pages 22 to 24  along with how the
Directors mitigate these risks in the current
economic climate. The Group’s business
activities, financial position, cash flows,
liquidity position, together with the factors
likely to affect its future development,
performance and position are set out in the
Business Review.  In addition, note 27 to
the Financial Statements includes the
Group’s policy on capital management, its
exposure to financial risks and its policies
and processes to manage those risks.   
The Group maintains on-going forecasts
that indicate profitability in 2011/12 and
beyond.  Stress test scenarios are
undertaken, the outcomes of which show
that the Group has adequate capital
resources for the foreseeable future even in
extreme adverse economic conditions.  The
Group’s business is highly cash generative
with a low working capital requirement;
indeed, the forecast cash flows show that
the Group will remain highly liquid in the
forthcoming financial year.
After reviewing the Group’s financial
forecasts including an assessment of
regulatory and working capital, the
Directors are confident that the Company
and the Group have adequate financial
resources available to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future. The going concern basis has
continued to be adopted in the preparation
of the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the
date of approval of this annual report
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is
no relevant audit information of which
the Company's auditor is unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that
they ought to have taken as a director,
in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company's auditor is
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be
interpreted in accordance with the
provisions of s418 of the Companies Act
2006. 
By order of the Board 
Judy Matthews
Company Secretary
13 September 2011
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
39
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
This report has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006,
Statutory Instrument 2008/410 The Large
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008
(the Regulations) and to meet the
requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s
Listing Rules.  The report describes how
the principles laid out in the UK Corporate
Governance Code (the Code) are applied,
and provides explanation for the areas
where we do not comply.
The Regulations require our external
auditor to report to shareholders on the
audited information within this report and
to state whether, in their opinion, the
relevant parts of the Report have been
prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.   The audited
information is clearly shown within the
report.
As required by the Act, a resolution to
approve the report will be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Corporate Governance statement on
pages 29 to36 contains information
regarding the responsibilities of the
Committee and its membership.  
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration policy for Directors of
the Company and subsidiary
companies
Our remuneration policy is designed to
attract, motivate and retain directors of
the calibre needed to maintain the Group’s
position as a market leading financial
services company.  The policy rewards
Directors for enhancing shareholder value
and acting in the long-term interests of the
Company.
We believe that a significant proportion of
total remuneration should be
performance-related.  The Company’s
policy is therefore to pay moderate basic
salaries but to give Directors and senior
managers the opportunity to earn
performance-related bonuses for
exceptional performance.  Long-term
retention is achieved through
participation in share option and share
award schemes as well as direct share
ownership. The policy has been extremely
successful to date with average service of
Directors currently being 16 years.
Executive remuneration structure in
2010/11
In the year ended 30 June 2011, there
were four main elements of the
remuneration package for Directors and
senior management:
• basic annual salary and benefits-in-
kind;
• annual bonus payments; 
• share option and share awards; and
• pension arrangements.
These arrangements are described below.
This remuneration structure will remain in
place during the 2011/12 financial year.
Basic annual salary and 
beneﬁts-in-kind
Basic annual salary is designed to provide
adequate but not generous remuneration.
Historically Directors’ salaries have been
set well below the market mean.
A Director’s basic salary is reviewed
annually by the Committee prior to the
beginning of each financial year and upon
changes to position or responsibility.  The
Committee considers salaries throughout
the Group as a whole, survey data,
information provided by advisers and up-
to-date information on a comparator
group of companies in the financial sector.  
All staff and Directors are entitled to life
assurance cover of three times their salary
and, subject to the rules of the scheme,
permanent health insurance.  The
executive Directors may also receive
certain limited benefits-in-kind.  
Annual Bonus payments and
performance conditions 
The Directors’ service contracts provide
that the executives may be paid a
discretionary bonus for each financial
year of the Company.  Bonus payments are
non-pensionable. 
Bonuses are paid based on two
performance criteria, being performance
of the Hargreaves Lansdown Group and
Directors’ achievement against individual
personal objectives.
The Group performance conditions
include the Group’s success in gathering
profitable client assets, improving and
maintaining long-term profitability,
robustness, sustainability and scalability
of operations, risk management and
compliance and client satisfaction.
Personal performance conditions consist
of both generic requirements for all
Directors and role-specific criteria.
Generic requirements include setting
direction, executing new initiatives,
improving and protecting the client base,
cost control and process improvement.  
No fewer than three role-specific
objectives are also assessed.
Bonuses will be materially affected if there
is a failure to meet either group or
individual performance conditions either
in whole or part, with zero bonus paid
should the Committee consider it
appropriate.
The first £300,000 of the total rewards
amount (being salary and annual bonus)
is paid in cash. For the excess of total
rewards, after salary, of over £300,000,
Directors can choose to either take the
balance as an immediate cash bonus or to
waive bonus in favour of deferred share
options or JSOP shares.  Where the
minimum share exposure or deferred
rewards criteria is not satisfied, rewards
must be taken as deferred share options,
JSOP shares or deferred cash bonus. This
criteria is described elsewhere in this report.
As the Group’s profits quickly turn into
cash, the risk of unexpected losses arising
in the future from unrealised or deferred
liabilities is low and other elements of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
This report deals with the remuneration policies and the work of the Remuneration Committee in the year
ended 30 June 2011.
40
Back to contents        
remuneration policy ensure long-term
behaviour.  The committee therefore
considers there is no formal requirement
for a bonus clawback provision.
Annual bonus pool and bonus cap
The Committee believes that any incentive
compensation awarded should be tied to
the interests of the Company’s
shareholders.  The annual bonus pool
available for directors is based on a
percentage of profit before tax. This
percentage is not fixed in advance and is
determined having taken account of the
results of the Company, particularly
assessed against Earnings Per Share (EPS).
Due regard is also taken of unusual rises
or falls in the markets which would
artificially raise or lower the profit of the
Company in any given year. 
The Committee does not consider it
appropriate to set a formal upper limit on
individual discretionary awards.   Firstly,
the total bonus pot to be distributed is
determined by the Committee with due
regard to the results of the Company and
the growth in EPS. Secondly, by
individually considering each director’s
performance against his or her personal
objectives, we ensure that payment is
proposed only where performance merits
an award.   Given these controls, the
success of the Company in motivating and
retaining Directors and historic restraint in
bonus payments, the Committee believes
retaining ultimate discretion is in the best
interests of the Company.  This avoids the
company being put at the mercy of
arbitrary formulaic criteria that may have
potentially unintended consequences.
Over the previous three years, bonuses for
executive and subsidiary Directors have
ranged from nil to 450% of salary, and
from nil to £800,000. These numbers
exclude Peter Hargreaves as the reduction
in his salary to £60,000 distorts the
percentage.  His bonus was £440,000 for
the year, which was 870% of his basic
salary.  The Remuneration Committee uses
the above methods to determine bonus
eligibility and entitlement and will award
a nil bonus where it feels performance
from any director has been insufficient.
As a percentage of revenue, variable
remuneration in the form of bonuses was
2.27% in the year (2010: 0.86%).  The
equivalent figures for previous years were
2.58% in 2009 and 2.26% in 2008.
In determining the Directors’
remuneration and the remuneration
structure for the current financial year, the
Committee consulted Peter Hargreaves,
Stephen Lansdown and Ian Gorham about
its proposals, although no Director was
involved in discussions regarding his own
remuneration. These Directors may attend
meetings at the invitation of the
Committee except when their own
remuneration is being discussed.
Share option and award incentives
The Directors are entitled to participate in
the SAYE share option scheme and Share
Incentive Plan (SIP) on the same terms as
all other employees.  Benefits received
under share option and award incentive
schemes are not pensionable.
The Company operates an Executive 
Share Option Scheme and an Executive
Joint Share Ownership Plan (JSOP) for 
the benefit of the Directors and senior
management of the Company and
subsidiary companies. The exercise price
of the options granted under the share
option schemes is equal to the market
value of the Company’s shares at the time
the options are granted.  Under the JSOP ,
Directors pay an agreed amount for their
interest in the shares at the outset.
Dilution
The Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is 
well funded and holds sufficient market
purchased shares to satisfy all share
awards granted prior to 31 December
2010.  Since that date, 1,022,473 share
options have been granted to staff and
Directors which are not hedged by shares
held by the EBT. It is currently intended
that these options and any granted under
later awards will be met by the issue of
new shares within the limits agreed by
shareholders when the plans were
approved, These limits comply with the
Association of British Insurers’ guidelines
restricting dilution from employee share
plans. The overall limits under the
guidelines are that no more than 10% of 
a Group’s issued share capital may be
used in any 10-year period. Within the
10% limit, up to 5% may be used for
discretionary share plans. 
The Committee will review the hedging
and dilution position of the Company
prior to making grants of new share
awards. 
Minimum requirements for exposure to
Hargreaves Lansdown shares or otherwise
deferred rewards
Directors are also required to accumulate
minimum personal holdings in Hargreaves
Lansdown plc shares, obtain exposure to
the shares through share options or JSOP
shares, or hold a minimum level of
deferred bonus.  
Each executive must accumulate a
minimum shareholding in the Company of
500,000 shares (including JSOP shares
and options to acquire shares) or
£250,000 in deferred cash bonus. Until
that condition is satisfied, reward
amounts (being salary and annual bonus)
over £300,000 must be taken as JSOP
shares, share options or as a deferred cash
bonus. The Committee believes that the
requirement for either a minimum
shareholding or deferred bonus aids
retention and ensures that the interests of
management and shareholders in the
success of the Group are closely aligned.
Requirements may be varied for new
Directors or at the discretion of the
Committee.  All Directors complied with
the requirement at 30 June 2011.
Share Options: Ensuring suitable grants
and performance conditions
Awards of share options or JSOP shares are
normally at the election of Directors through
bonus waiver.  Alternatively awards of share
options or JSOP shares may be made by the
Remuneration Committee in recognition of
the demonstrable high value of a Director
to the Company and/or the Company’s need
to ensure retention.  As such, the Committee
is of the view that these awards are either
in recognition of past performance, for
retention purposes, or at the election of
Directors through bonus waiver (in which
case they have effectively been paid for by
the Director).  Also taking into account that
shares or options are offered at no discount,
the Committee believes that the application
of performance criteria is inappropriate in
any of these scenarios.  Directors can only
benefit if there is further growth in the
value of the Company’s share price over a
sustained period and hence their interests
are clearly aligned with shareholders.
Pension arrangements
No Directors or staff participate in a
defined benefit pension scheme.  The
Group operates its own Group Self
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
41
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Invested Personal Pension (the “GSIPP”).
The GSIPP is non-contributory and allows
staff to take more control of their pension
planning.  The Company contributes 4%
of salary to the scheme which applies to
Directors and staff. Employees wishing to
make personal contributions to the GSIPP
can do so via ‘salary exchange’ ensuring
that they benefit from the maximum,
immediate relief from income tax and
National Insurance. Staff and Directors
may opt out of the scheme should they
wish.  
Executive Directors’ contracts 
The Company’s policy is that executive
Directors should have contracts with an
indefinite term and a maximum of one
year’s notice.  Accordingly, all Directors
currently have contracts which are subject
to one year’s notice by either party.  The
Company may at any time exercise its
discretion to pay executives in lieu of the
notice period.  At 30 June 2011, the
contractual amount which may be payable
to the executive Directors under the
payment in lieu of notice clauses is
£710,000.  The details of the Directors’
contracts are summarised in the table
below:
Name of Contract Notice
director date period
I Gorham 2 September 2010 12 months
P Hargreaves 5 April 2007 12 months
T Taylor 1 November 2008 12 months
Hargreaves Lansdown recognises that its
Directors may be invited to become non-
executive directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden
experience and knowledge which can
benefit the Company. Subject to approval
by the Board, Directors are allowed to
accept non-executive appointments and
retain the fees received, provided that
these appointments are not likely to lead
to conflicts of interest.  Peter Hargreaves
currently receives fees of £45,000 p.a. in
respect of his duties as a non-executive of
ITM Power plc. 
Executive Directors’ contracts of service
which include details of remuneration will
be available for inspection at the Annual
General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors’ contracts 
The Company’s policy is that that non-Executive Directors should have a fixed term
contract with a three month notice period.  Details of the non-executive Directors
contracts for services are as follows:
Name Commencement Date: Notice Period Notes
Michael Evans 1 September 2006 3 months 1 
Jonathan Bloomer 18 September 2006 3 months 2
Stephen Lansdown 26 August 2010 3 months
Chris Barling 26 August 2010 3 months
Notes:
1) Michael Evans’ contract for the position of non-executive Chairman took eﬀect from 1 December 2009  
2)  Jonathan Bloomer’s initial three year contract was renewed for a further three years from 18 September
2009
Performance graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) i.e capital growth and dividends paid, compared with the
performance of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index during the period since ﬂotation.  
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
DATE
Aug 07
Nov 07
Feb 08
May 08
Aug 08
Nov 08
Feb 09
May 09
Aug 09
Nov 09
Feb 10
May 10
Aug 10
Nov 10
Feb 11
May 11
Aug 11
HL TSR
FTSE 350 Financial
Services Index
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
Total Shareholder Return
Growth in EPS
This graph shows the value of £100 invested in Hargreaves  Lansdown plc shares on 15 May 2007
(admission to the Oﬃcial List )  comparedto £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Financial Services Sector
As the Company was not listed on a
stock exchange prior to May 2007 , a
comparison of TSR prior to 15 May
2007 has not been possible due to the
absence of a quoted share price.  
The Company’s performance measured
using underlying adjusted earnings
per share (EPS) has also been
compared against the performance of
the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
20
15
10
5
0
HL Underlying EPS
FTSE 350 
General Financial
42
Back to contents        
Outcome of the 2011 
remuneration review
The Remuneration Committee was
delighted by the strong results of the
Company delivered by the new CEO and
his executive team. The strong profits,
growth in EPS and increased dividends
achieved in trying market conditions
reflect very well, and the Committee felt
this warranted improved rewards
compared to the previous year.
During the year, the Remuneration
Committee has approved to increase the
salary payable to Ian Gorham, on his
appointment to Chief Executive Officer,
from £300,000 to £450,000.  No increases
were made to the salaries of Peter
Hargreaves or Tracey Taylor.
After a number of years of holding the
salaries payable to Directors of subsidiary
companies unchanged, the Committee
agreed to increase the minimum salary
from £150,000 to £200,000 per annum
from 1 June 2011, to reflect the
increasingly challenging environment in
which the executive team is working, and
the continuing strong performance of the
Group in difficult economic times.  
The Committee has also agreed the level of
bonuses to be paid to Executive Directors
and subsidiary Directors, and has
considered the level of the payments
proposed for staff more generally.  The total
bonus paid to Executive directors and
subsidiary Directors, as a percentage of
salary, was 223% (2010: 54%).  Note that
in 2010, Peter Hargreaves and a subsidiary
director waived their entitlement to a
bonus, and one other subsidiary director
was awarded no bonus.   Taking these
factors into account, a more comparable
percentage for 2010 would be 85%. 
Ian Gorham was awarded a total of
1,300,000 unapproved share options on
his appointment to Chief Executive Officer.
These share options are intended to align
his interests with those of our
shareholders.  The options have a three
year vesting period and, in line with our
policy detailed above, are subject to no
further performance conditions.  Other
than options taken via bonus waiver (total
of 655,528 unapproved share options), no
other share options or share awards were
granted to Executive or subsidiary
Directors during the year. 
Non-Executive directors
All non-executive directors have specific
terms of engagement, which are available
for inspection, and their remuneration is
determined by the Board within limits set
by the Articles of Association and based on
independent surveys of fees paid to non-
executive directors of similar companies.
Each non-executive director, other than
Stephen Lansdown, is a member of the
Remuneration Committee, Nomination
Committee and Audit Committee.  Mike
Evans, as Chairman, is a member of the
Remuneration and Nomination
Committees only. The range payable to
non-executive directors has also been
reviewed and the range extended from
£30,000 to £42,500 p.a, dependent on
experience, which includes a fee for
membership of each committee.
Additional fees are payable to Jonathan
Bloomer for chairmanship of the three
committees.  Following review of his
performance in his first year, the fees
payable to Chris Barling have also been
reviewed and from 1 August 2011 are
increased from £30,000 to £42,500.  Non-
executive directors cannot participate in
any of the Company’s share option
schemes and are not eligible to join the
Company’s pension scheme.
Appointments are for a fixed term of three
years from the commencement date unless
terminated by either party on three
months’ written notice or by the Company
at any time with immediate effect on
payment in lieu of notice.
Non-executive directors are entitled to
reimbursement of all reasonable and
properly documented travel, hotel and
other incidental expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties and the
Company maintains appropriate directors’
and officers’ liability insurance for their
benefit.
The following information is provided in respect of directors who served during the
year ended 30 June 2011: 
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
2011 2010
£’000 £’000
Emoluments 2,197 1,040
Pension contributions 47 32
Share-based payments 763 114
Gains on exercise of share options --
3,007 1,186
Audited information
Directors’ pension contributions
Two directors were members of a money purchase scheme during 2011 (2010: 1).
Contributions paid by the Company were:
2011 2010
££
Ian Gorham 18,384 -
Tracey Taylor 28,538 32,206
46,922 32,206
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
43
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Directors’ emoluments
Name of director Fees/ Beneﬁts Performance 2011 2010
Basic salary in kind Bonuses
£ ££ Total £ Total £
Current Executive directors
Ian Gorham 1 367,500 - 666,667 1,034,167 -
Tracey Taylor 190,645 204 250,000 440,849 296,906
Peter Hargreaves 50,167 20,572 440,000 510,739 405,917
608,312 20,776 1,356,667 1,985,755 702,823
Former Executive directors
Stephen Lansdown -- - - 186,494
186,494
Non-Executive directors
Michael Evans 90,000 -- 90,000 67,083
Jonathan Bloomer 55,000 -- 55,000 53,897
Chris Barling 25,460 -- 25,460 -
Stephen Lansdown 25,460 -- 25,460 -
195,920 -- 195,920 120,980
Former Non-Executive directors
Jonathan Davis 15,000 -- 15,000 30,000
15,000 -- 15,000 30,000
Aggregate emoluments 819,232 20,776 1,356,667 2,196,675 1,040,297
Name of director Type of At 1 July Exercised Granted Purchased Lapsed At 30 June Exercise Expiration Date from 
scheme 2010 2011 Price Date which 
exercisable
I Gorham Exec Scheme 10,569 -- - - 10,569 £2.84 Oct 2019 Oct 2012
Exec Scheme 239,431 -- - - 239,431 £2.84 Oct 2019 Oct 2012
Exec Scheme -- 500,000 -- 500,000 £4.09 Sept 2020 Sept 2013
Exec Scheme -- 800,000 -- 800,000 £4.58 Oct 2020 Oct 2013
JSOP 750,000 -- - - 750,000 - Dec 2019 Dec 2012
T Taylor Exec Scheme 15,355 -- - - 15,355 £1.95 Mar 2019 Mar 2014
SAYE 22,550 -- - - 22,550 £0.55 Nov 2012 May 2012
SAYE 2.373 -- - - 2,373 £1.75 Mar 2014 Oct 2013
JSOP 1,000,000 -- - - 1,000,000 - Dec 2019 Dec 2012
1
Emoluments for Ian Gorham are shown for the 10 months following appointment to the Board and include annual performance bonus accrued for the period.
Emoluments for Chris Barling and Stephen Lansdown are shown for the 10 months following appointment to the Board as non-executive directors. Emoluments for
Jonathan Davis are included up to date of resignation Directors’ share options and share awards
All of the executive directors of the Group as at 8 November 2006, with the exception of Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown,
were each awarded 12,650 Ordinary Shares on 8 November 2006 under the terms of the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan
(SIP).  At the award date the HMRC approved market value was £0.24 per share.  These shares mature on 8 November 2011 and will
be transferred to each director.  The ﬁgures shown below are exclusive of such awards.  Options granted under the share option
and share incentive schemes are not subject to performance criteria.  
The closing market price of the ordinary 0.4 pence shares at 30 June 2011 was £6.075 and the range during the year to 30 June 2011
was £3.174 to £6.465.
The interests of the directors who served during the year in options to acquire shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are as follows:
Approval
This report in its entirety has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
J Bloomer 
Chairman of the Committee
44
Back to contents Company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year.  Under that law the
directors are required to prepare the
Group financial statements in accordance
with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation and have also chosen to
prepare the parent company financial
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the
EU.  Under company law the directors
must not approve the accounts unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and of the profit or loss of the
Company for that period.  In preparing
these financial statements, International
Accounting Standard 1 requires that
directors:
• properly select and apply accounting
policies;
• present information, including
accounting policies, in a manner that
provides relevant, reliable,
comparable and understandable
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient
to enable users to understand the
impact of particular transactions,
other events and conditions on the
entity's financial position and
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company's
ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and
enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006.  They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information
included on the company’s website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our
knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in
accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards, as
adopted by the European Union, give a
true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit
or loss of the Company and the
undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the management report, which is
incorporated into the directors' report,
includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the
business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings
included in the consolidation taken as
a whole, together with a description of
the principal risks and uncertainties
that they face.
By order of the Board 
Ian Gorham
Chief Executive
13 September 2011
Tracey Taylor
Group Finance Director
13 September 2011
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement  
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
       
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
45
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
We have audited the financial statements
of Hargreaves Lansdown plc for the year
ended 30 June 2011 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the
Consolidated and Company Statements of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity, the
Company Statement of Changes in Equity,
the Consolidated and Company Balance
Sheets, the Consolidated and Company
Statements of Cash Flows and the related
notes 1 to 27.  The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union and, as regards the
parent company financial statements, as
applied in accordance with the provisions
of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor’s report and for
no other purpose.  To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than
the company and the company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of
directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’
Responsibilities Statement, the directors
are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair
view.  Our responsibility is to audit and
express an opinion on the financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those
standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the 
ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
error.  This includes an assessment of:
whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the group’s and the parent
company’s circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of
significant accounting estimates made by
the directors; and the overall presentation
of the financial statements. In addition,
we read all the financial and non-financial
information in the annual report to
identify material inconsistencies with the
audited financial statements.  If we
become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true
and fair view of the state of the group’s
and of the parent company’s affairs as
at 30 June 2011 and of the group’s
profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance
with IFRSs as adopted by the
European Union;
• the parent company financial
statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union and as
applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 2006;
and
• the financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Companies Act
2006 and, as regards the group
financial statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared
is consistent with the financial
statements.
Matters on which we are required to
report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the
following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not
been kept by the parent company, or
returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not
visited by us; or 
• the  parent company financial
statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’
remuneration specified by law are not
made; or 
• we have not received all the
information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to
review:
• the directors’ statement, contained
within the Directors’ Report, in
relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance
Statement relating to the company’s
compliance with the nine provisions of
the UK Corporate Governance Code
specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to
shareholders by the Board on
directors’ remuneration.
Simon Cleveland 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditor 
Bristol, United Kingdom
13 September 2011
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc
46
Back to contents Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
Note £’000 £’000
Revenue 4 207,904 158,970
Total operating income 207,904 158,970
Administrative expenses (83,459) (73,588)
Operating proﬁt 124,445 85,382
Investment revenue 8 1,496 854
Other gains 72 59
Proﬁt before tax 126,013 86,295
Tax 9 (34,066) (25,020)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 6 91,947 61,275
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 91,820 61,266
Non-controlling interest 127 9
91,947 61,275
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share * (pence) 11 19.8 13.2
Diluted earnings per share * (pence) 11 19.6 13.1
       
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
All income, proﬁts and earnings are in respect of continuing operations.
* Underlying earnings per share, excluding the impact of investment gains and one-oﬀ costs relating to the additional FSCS levy in 2011 and oﬃce costs
in 2010, are shown in note 11.
Group  Company
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 91,947 61,275 87,897 54,336
Other comprehensive income for the period:-
Increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments 39 168 39 185
Total comprehensive income for the ﬁnancial year 91,986 61,443 87,936 54,521
Attributable to:-
Equity holders of the Company 91,859 61,434 87,936 54,521
Non-controlling interest 127 9 - -
91,986 61,443 87,936 54,521
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
47
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
The share premium account represents the diﬀerence between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Group, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company's own shares. 
The Shares held by Employee Beneﬁt Trust (“the EBT”) reserve represents the cost of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc purchased in the market and
held by the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
The EBT reserve represents the cumulative gain on disposal of investments held by the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT.  The reserve is not distributable by
the Company as the assets and liabilities of the EBT are subject to management by the Trustees in accordance with the EBT trust deed.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s equity therein.  Non-controlling
interests consist of the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired at the date of the original business combination
and the non-controlling interest’s change in equity since that date.  The non-controlling interest represents a 25% shareholding in Library Information
Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
Attributable to the owners of the Company
Share Investment Capital Shares held Non-
Share premium revaluation redemption by EBT EBT Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2009 1,897 8 (77) 12 (10,965) 11,118 82,727 84,720 (70) 84,650
Proﬁt for the period -- - - - - 61,266 61,266 9 61,275
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets -- 168 -- - - 168 - 168
Employee Beneﬁt Trust:-
Shares sold in the year -- - - 50 -- 50 - 50
Shares acquired in the year -- - - (3,590) -- (3,590) - (3,590)
EBT share sale net of tax -- - - - (952) - (952) - (952)
Employee share option scheme:-
Share-based payments expense -- - - - - 608 608 - 608
Deferred tax eﬀect of 
share-based payments -- - - - - 1,104 1,104 - 1,104
Dividend paid -- - - - - (77,260) (77,260) - (77,260)
At 30 June 2010 1,897 8 91 12 (14,505) 10,166 68,445 66,114 (61) 66,053
Proﬁt for the period -- - - - - 91,820 91,820 127 91,947
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets -- 39 -- - - 39 - 39
Employee Beneﬁt Trust:-
Shares sold in the year -- - - 131 -- 131 - 131
Shares acquired in the year -- - - (2,155) -- (2,155) - (2,155)
EBT share sale net of tax -- - - - 128 - 128 - 128
Employee share option scheme:-
Share-based payments expense -- - - - - 1,618 1,618 - 1,618
Deferred tax eﬀect of 
share-based payments -- - - - - 4,510 4,510 - 4,510
Dividend paid -- - - - - (31,404) (31,404) - (31,404)
At 30 June 2011 1,897 8 130 12 (16,529) 10,294 134,989 130,801 66 130,867
48
Back to contents        
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Share Investment Capital 
Share premium revaluation redemption Retained 
capital account reserve reserve earnings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2009 1,897 8 (77) 12 35,691 37,531
Proﬁt for the period -- - 54,338 54,338
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on available-for-sale assets -- 185 -- 185
Dividend paid -- - - (77,260) (77,260)
At 30 June 2010 1,897 8 108 12 12,769 14,794
Proﬁt for the period -- - - 87,897 87,897
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on available-for-sale assets -- 39 -- 39
Dividend paid -- - - (31,404) (31,404)
At 30 June 2011 1,897 8 147 12 69,262 71,326
The share premium account represents the diﬀerence between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Group, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company's own shares.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
49
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
Group  Company
At 30 June At 30 June At 30 June At 30 June 
2011 2010 2011 2010
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 1,333 1,333 - -
Other intangible assets 13 296 211 - -
Property, plant and equipment 14 6,980 7,445 - -
Investments 16 - - 2,152 2,152
Deferred tax assets 18 8,117 2,941 38 48
16,726 11,930 2,190 2,200
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 176,178 104,174 269 104
Cash and cash equivalents 17 121,951 71,245 67,410 12,078
Investments 16 2,240 2,322 1,626 1,587
Current tax assets 12 33 - -
300,381 177,774 69,305 13,769
Total assets 317,107 189,704 71,495 15,969
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 167,439 108,692 53 983
Current tax liabilities 18,742 14,061 116 192
186,181 122,753 169 1,175
Net current assets 114,200 55,021 69,136 12,594
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 20 59 898 - -
59 898 - -
Total liabilities 186,240 123,651 169 1,175
Net assets 130,867 66,053 71,326 14,794
EQUITY
Share capital 21 1,897 1,897 1,897 1,897
Share premium account 8 8 8 8
Investment revaluation reserve 130 91 147 108
Capital redemption reserve 12 12 12 12
Shares held by Employee Beneﬁt Trust reserve (16,529) (14,505) - -
EBT reserve 10,294 10,166 - -
Retained earnings 134,989 68,445 69,262 12,769
Total equity, attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 130,801 66,114 71,326 14,794
Non-controlling interest 66 (61) - -
Total equity 130,867 66,053 71,326 14,794
The ﬁnancial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc, registered number 02122142, were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on
13 September 2011.
Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
50
Back to contents        
Statement of Cash Flows
Group  Company
Year ended   Year ended    Year ended   Year ended    
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities, after tax 22 84,257 71,530 (970) 383
Investing activities
Interest received 1,443 804 140 260
Dividends received from investments 53 50 87,500 53,800
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments 121 228 66 -
Proceeds on disposal of plant and equipment 78 102 - 100
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,596) (7,834) - -
Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (349) (263) - -
Net cash from investing activities (250) (6,913) 87,706 54,160
Financing activities
Purchases of own shares in EBT (2,155) (3,590) - -
Proceeds on sale of own shares in EBT 258 62 - -
Dividends paid (31,404) (77,260) (31,404) (77,260)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (33,301) (80,788) (31,404) (77,260)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 50,706 (16,171) 55,332 (22,717)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 71,245 87,416 12,078 34,795
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 121,951 71,245 67,410 12,078
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
51
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. General information
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 whose shares are publicly
traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered oﬃce is One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol BS1 5HL, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review. 
These ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. 
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee of the IASB (together “IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. The Company's ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the same basis
and as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement is presented for the Company.  The Company’s proﬁt after tax for the
year was £87,897,000 (2010: £54,336,000).
In the current year amendments to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures which extends the deﬁnition of a related party and IAS 32, Financial instruments:
Presentation on classiﬁcation of rights issues were conﬁrmed. In addition, the IASB's 2010 annual improvements project makes minor changes to IAS
27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IFRS 3, Business combinations and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures. None of these
changes have any impact on the ﬁnancial statements.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments was reissued, and new standards IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12,
Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement were issued, applicable from 1 January 2013. The Group is currently
reviewing the impact of these new standards but does not intend to adopt the standards early.
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments. The principal
accounting policies adopted are set out below.
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior ﬁnancial year.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries)
made up to 30 June 2011.  Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an investee entity so as
to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the eﬀective date of
acquisition or up to the eﬀective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by
the Group.  All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group and Company ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as discussed on page 39.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values,
at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the
acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that
meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. 
Any gains or losses on sale of the Company’s own shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Beneﬁt Trust (“EBT”) are credited directly to the
EBT reserve and are treated as undistributable proﬁts.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classiﬁed as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.  Non-
current assets and disposal groups are classiﬁed as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for
immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed
sale within one year from the date of classiﬁcation.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identiﬁable assets and
liabilities of a subsidiary, associate, or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least
annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or
loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS on 1 July 2005 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written oﬀ to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 30 June 1997 has not been reinstated and is not included in
determining any subsequent proﬁt or loss on disposal.
52
Back to contents        
Notes to the Financial Statements
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided in the normal
course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Fund based commissions are recognised on an accruals basis calculated
according to the level of assets under the administration, or agency, of the Group.  The Group’s stockbroking and unit trust management subsidiaries
earn initial commission on securities transactions entered into on behalf of clients. The commission earned is recorded in the accounts on the date of
the transaction, as this is the date on which the service is provided to the client and the Group becomes entitled to the income.
The Group also earns initial commission from third party providers on the set up of group pension schemes. Initial commissions are deemed to be
earned at the policy inception date on those policies where there are only negligible ongoing services. Where ongoing services are provided, an
appropriate proportion of the income is deferred over the relevant period. Where such commission is received on an indemnity basis, a provision is
made for clawbacks, if any, which would be due if the policy lapses during the indemnity period.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, using the eﬀective interest rate method.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Operating proﬁt
Operating proﬁt is stated before investment revenue and ﬁnance costs. Underlying operating proﬁt is stated before investment revenue, ﬁnance costs
and one-oﬀ costs relating to the FSCS additional levy and the new oﬃces.
Retirement beneﬁt costs
The Group operates a group self-invested personal pension plan for staﬀ.  Payments to the deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt scheme are charged
as an expense as they fall due.
Bonuses payable to employees
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for staﬀ bonuses where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice.  
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle
that obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date,
and are discounted to present value where the eﬀect is material. 
Provisions are recognised for future committed property lease payments when the group receives no beneﬁt from the property through continuing usage
and future receipts from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the group’s future committed payments.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.  The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year.
Taxable proﬁt diﬀers from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible
in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on diﬀerences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary diﬀerences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary diﬀerences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not
recognised if the temporary diﬀerence arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that aﬀects neither the tax proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary diﬀerences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group
is able to control the reversal of the temporary diﬀerence and it is probable that the temporary diﬀerence will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that suﬃcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also
dealt with in equity.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oﬀset when there is a legally enforceable right to set oﬀ current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities
on a net basis.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
53
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested
at 1 July 2005.  
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value
(excluding the eﬀect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest
and adjusted for the eﬀect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model. The expected life used in
the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the eﬀects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural
considerations.  Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore, in the absence of a readily available
market price for the shares, the share price was based on the market value agreed with HM Revenue & Customs and share price volatility was estimated
as the average of the volatility applying to a comparable group of listed companies.  
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.  Depreciation is provided, where material,
on all tangible ﬁxed assets at rates calculated to write oﬀ the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line
method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Fixtures, ﬁttings, plant and equipment:
Leasehold property tenants’ ﬁxtures over the life of the lease
Oﬃce equipment over 10 years
Computer equipment and software over 3 to 4 years
Motor vehicles: over 4 years
The carrying values of tangible ﬁxed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may
not be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the diﬀerence between the sales proceeds and
the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Leasing
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All
other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.  Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of
the relevant lease.  Beneﬁts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill
Other intangible assets comprise computer software which is stated at cost less amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.  Amortisation is
provided, where material, on all intangible ﬁxed assets excluding goodwill at rates calculated to write oﬀ the cost or valuation, less estimated residual
value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Computer software: over 3 to 4 years
The carrying values of computer software are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not
be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the diﬀerence between the sales proceeds and the
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Website development design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset, which
delivers beneﬁts at least as great as the amount capitalised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication
that those assets have suﬀered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and
value in use.  An intangible asset with an indeﬁnite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may
be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are declared and paid, or if
earlier, in the accounting period when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Notes to the Financial Statements
54
Back to contents        
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of
the instrument.  
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in proﬁt
or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange
member ﬁrms and other counterparties are included as debtors. Market debtors and creditors are presented net where there is a legal right of oﬀset.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The Group’s available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation gains and
losses reﬂected in the investment revaluation reserve, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 48, until sale when the
cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other
method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that cost is not materially diﬀerent to fair value, with
a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
Investments which are designated as being held at fair value through proﬁt or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted market price of the listed
investment, with any gain or loss reported within the income statement.  An investment is classiﬁed in this category if it is held principally for the
purpose of selling in the short term.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a
known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value.  Included within cash balances are amounts held on client settlement
accounts as shown in note 17.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at fair value which is equivalent to amortised cost.  In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients,
Stock Exchange member ﬁrms and other counterparties are included as creditors. Market debtors and creditors are presented net where there is a legal
right of oﬀset.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
55
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
3. Key sources of judgements and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the ﬁnancial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that aﬀect the reported amount of revenues,
expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on
management’s best judgement at the date of preparation of the ﬁnancial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and
assumptions will be modiﬁed as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change. The areas where a higher degree of judgement or
complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, are discussed below.
Share-based payments
In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions about
the future events and market conditions.  In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the fair value of
each award granted.  The fair value is determined using a valuation model which is dependent on future estimates, including the Group’s future
dividend policy, the timing with which the options will be exercised and the future volatility in the price of the Group’s shares.  Diﬀerent assumptions
about these factors to those made by the Group could materially aﬀect the reported value of share-based payments.
Staﬀ costs
Included in staﬀ costs is an estimate of the future liability for bonuses and other employee incentive schemes which have been earned but not paid.
Indemnity provision
Following a change in the proﬁle of the Group’s involvement with pension scheme policies, the provision for indemnity commission clawbacks is
immaterial and is no longer identiﬁed as a key source of estimation uncertainty. 
4. Revenue
Revenue represents commission receivable from ﬁnancial services provided to clients, interest on settlement accounts and management fees charged to
clients.  It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax.  An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Revenue from services:-
Fees and commission income 171,012 135,738
Interest and similar income 33,107 20,521
Subscriptions and sundry charges 3,785 2,711
Total operating income 207,904 158,970
5. Segment information
The Group is organised into three business segments, namely the Vantage Division, the Discretionary Division and the Third Party/Other Services
Division. This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision
Maker (CODM) is provided with ﬁnancial information. The CODM has been identiﬁed as the Board of Executive Directors.
The ‘Vantage’ division represents all activities relating to the Vantage service, our direct to private investor platform. 
The ‘Discretionary/Managed’ division is focused on the provision of managed services such as our Portfolio Management Service (PMS) and range of
Multi-Manager funds.  
The ‘Third Party/Other Services’ division includes activities relating to the broking of third party investments and pensions, certiﬁcated share dealing
and other niche services such as currency, CFD’s and spread betting.  In this division, clients’ investments are not administered within the Group.
The ‘Group’ segment contains items that are shared by the Group as a whole and cannot be reasonably allocated to other operating segments.
Segment expenses are those that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can reasonably be
allocated to the segment. Gains or losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments, investment income, interest payable and tax are not
allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items.
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.  At 30 June 2011 and 2010, these comprise cash and
cash equivalents, short-term investments, tax-related and other assets or liabilities.  
Consolidation adjustments relate to the elimination of inter-segment revenues, balances and investments in group subsidiaries required on
consolidation.
Notes to the Financial Statements
56
Back to contents        
Discretionary/ Third Party/ Consolidation
Vantage Managed Other Services Group Adjustment Consolidated
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 June 2011
Revenue from external customers 160,524 24,711 22,669 -- 207,904
Inter-segment revenue - 3,424 -- (3,424) -
Total segment revenue 160,524 28,135 22,669 - (3,424) 207,904
Depreciation and amortisation 1,737 205 376 -- 2,318
Investment revenue -- - 1,496 - 1,496
Other gains -- - 72 - 72
Reportable segment proﬁt before tax 96,688 16,905 11,269 1,151 - 126,013
Reportable segment assets 169,234 9,827 13,155 131,446 (6,555) 317,107
Reportable segment liabilities (139,238) (6,397) (11,686) (33,323) 4,404 (186,240)
Net segment assets 29,996 3,430 1,469 98,123 (2,151) 130,867
Year ended 30 June 2010
Revenue from external customers 112,189 22,901 23,879 1- 158,970
Inter-segment revenue - 2,560 -- (2,560) -
Total segment revenue 112,189 25,461 23,879 1 (2,560) 158,970
Depreciation and amortisation 1,618 321 468 20 - 2,427
Investment revenue -- - 854 - 854
Other gains -- - 59 - 59
Reportable segment proﬁt before tax 61,744 13,248 10,711 592 - 86,295
Reportable segment assets 87,968 6,853 10,906 87,687 (3,710) 189,704
Reportable segment liabilities (80,699) (3,686) (9,916) (30,908) 1,558 (123,651)
Net segment assets 7,269 3,167 990 56,779 (2,152) 66,053
Information about products/services
The Group’s operating segments are business units that provide diﬀerent products and services.  The breakdown of revenue from external customers for
each type of service is therefore the same as the segmental analysis above.
Information about geographical area
All business activities are located within the UK.
Information about major customers
The Group does not rely on any individual customer.
5. Segment information (continued)
Notes to the Financial Statements
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
57
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
6. Proﬁt for the year
Proﬁt for the year has been arrived at after charging: Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Depreciation of owned plant and equipment 2,055 2,138
Amortisation of other intangible assets 263 289
Operating lease rentals payable – property 2,191 3,052
Staﬀ costs (Note 7) 40,140 36,012
One-oﬀ costs – oﬃce move - 4,429
One-oﬀ costs -  FSCS interim levy 3,036 -
The analysis of auditor remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 5 5
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 85 79
Fees payable for the review of the Company’s half yearly ﬁnancial report 10 10
Other veriﬁcation work 6 7
106 101
7 . Staﬀ costs
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
No. No.
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including executive directors) was:
Operating and support functions 470 465
Administrative functions 183 163
653 628
Of which the following number were employed by the parent company:
Administrative functions 3 3
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 32,098 30,054
Social security costs 3,793 3,353
Share-based payment expenses 1,618 608
Other pension costs 2,631 1,997
40,140 36,012
The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees by rewarding them with competitive salary and beneﬁt packages, which may be
linked to the creation of long-term shareholder value. Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market
generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. All employees are eligible to be considered for an annual discretionary bonus. 
In addition to cash bonuses, the Group operates various share-based remuneration schemes as described in note 24.
8. Investment revenue
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Interest on bank deposits 1,443 804
Dividends from equity investment 53 50
1,496 854
Notes to the Financial Statements
58
Back to contents        
9. Tax
Proﬁt for the year has been arrived at after charging: Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Current tax 34,732 25,031
Deferred tax (Note 18) (666) (11)
34,066 25,020
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 126,013 86,295
Theoretical tax charge 34,653 24,162
- at the UK corporation tax rate of 27.5% 28.0%
Items (allowable)/not allowable for tax (92) 844
Eﬀect of adjustments relating to prior year (617) (7)
Utilisation of small company rate and rate applicable to trusts 3 21
Impact of the change in tax rate 119 -
Tax expense for the year 34,066 25,020
Eﬀective tax rate 27.0% 28.9%
Factors aﬀecting tax charge for the year
It is expected that the ongoing eﬀective tax rate will trend to a rate approximating to the standard UK corporation tax rate in the medium term.  The
Finance Act 2011 received Royal Assent on 19 July 2010 and reduced the standard UK corporation tax rate to 26% (from 28%) on 1 April 2011.  Deferred tax
has been recognised at 26%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date.  A deferred tax asset in respect of future share option deductions has
been recognised based on the Company’s share price as at 30 June 2011.  
Factors aﬀecting future tax charge
Any increase or decrease to the Company’s share price will impact the amount of tax deduction available in future years on the value of shares acquired
by staﬀ under share incentive schemes.   The standard rate of UK corporation tax is due to reduce to 25% for the 2012 ﬁnancial year, 24% for the 2013
ﬁnancial year and 23% for the 2014 ﬁnancial year.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the proﬁt per the income statement as follow:
Corporation tax is calculated at 27.50% of the estimated assessable proﬁt for the year to 30 June 2011 (2010: 28%).
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, certain tax amounts have been charged or credited directly to equity as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax relating to share-based payments (4,510) (1,104)
Current tax on gain on disposal of shares held by EBT - (965)
(4,510) (2,069)
Notes to the Financial Statements
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
59
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
10. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
2010 Final dividend of 0.58p (2009: 4.229p) per share 2,688 19,640
2010 Final special dividend of 1.7p (2009: 2.807p) per share 7,879 13,036
First interim dividend of 4.5p (2010: 8p) per share 20,837 37,154
First interim special dividend of nil (2010: 1.6p) per share - 7,431
After the balance sheet date, the directors declared a second interim (ﬁnal) ordinary dividend of 8.41 pence per share and a special dividend of 5.96
pence per share payable on 29 September 2011 to shareholders on the register on 9 September 2011.  Dividends are required to be recognised in the
ﬁnancial statements when paid, and accordingly the declared dividend amounts are not recognised in these ﬁnancial statements, but will be included in
the 2012 ﬁnancial statements as follows:
£’000
Second interim (ﬁnal) dividend of 8.41p per share 38,929
Special dividend of 5.96p per share 27,584
Under an arrangement dated 30 June 1997 the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Beneﬁt Trust, which held the following number of ordinary shares in
Hargreaves Lansdown plc at the date shown, has agreed to waive all dividends.
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Number of shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Beneﬁt Trust 11,214,774 10,693,671
Representing % of called-up share capital 2.36% 2.25%
Notes to the Financial Statements
60
Back to contents        
11. Earnings per share (EPS)
12. Goodwill - Group
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Cost
At beginning and end of year 1,450 1,450
Accumulated impairment losses
At beginning and end of year 117 117
Carrying amount
At end of year 1,333 1,333
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the period, including ordinary shares held in the EBT reserve which have vested unconditionally with employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares.  
Underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share are calculated as for basic and diluted earnings per share, but using an
underlying earnings ﬁgure such that the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company is stated before investment gains and before the FSCS levy
in 2011 and one-oﬀ costs relating to the new oﬃce in 2010. The directors consider that the adjusted earnings per share represent a more consistent
measure of underlying performance. 
The net carrying value of goodwill relates entirely to the acquisition of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited (HLPD).  The Group tests goodwill
annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  The Group has prepared ﬁnancial forecasts for the
business for the period to June 2013 which show that the group as a whole will remain highly proﬁtable and cash generative. Within the forecast, the
revenue streams which belong to HLPD continue to grow. HLPD is proﬁt making and has a net assets position as at 30 June 2011, therefore the directors
see no reason to impair the value of goodwill and continue to hold it at its carrying amount.
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Earnings (all from continuing operations):
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS - net proﬁt attributable to equity holders of parent company 91,820 61,266
Other gains (72) (59)
One-oﬀ costs relating to the new oﬃce - 4,429
Tax on one-oﬀ costs relating to the new oﬃce - (720)
One-oﬀ costs relating to the FSCS additional levy 3,036 -
Tax on one-oﬀ costs relating to the additional FSCS levy (844) -
Earnings for the purposes of underlying basic EPS and underlying diluted EPS 93,940 64,916
Number of shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 469,074,636 468,417,838
Weighted average number of shares held by HL EBT which have not vested unconditionally with employees (5,831,871) (3,944,947)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 463,242,765 464,472,891
Earnings per share: Pence Pence
Basic EPS 19.8 13.2
Diluted EPS 19.6 13.1
Underlying basic EPS 20.3 14.0
Underlying diluted EPS 20.0 13.9
Notes to the Financial Statements
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
61
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
13. Other intangible assets - Group
Computer software
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2009 2,081
Additions 263
At 1 July 2010 2,344
Additions 349
Other movements (13)
At 30 June 2011 2,680
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2009 1,844
Charge 289
At 1 July 2010 2,133
Charge 263
Other movements (12)
At 30 June 2011 2,384
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2011 296
At 30 June 2010 211
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use by the Group.
14. Property, plant and equipment
Group’s property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, ﬁttings, plant and equipment Motor vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2009 7,117 31 7,148
Additions 7,834 - 7,834
Disposals (1,338) - (1,338)
At 1 July 2010 13,613 31 13,644
Additions 1,596 - 1,596
Disposals (56) (31) (87)
Other movements (935) - (935)
At 30 June 2011 14,218 - 14,218
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2009 5,341 16 5,357
Charge 2,130 8 2,138
Disposals (1,296) - (1,296)
At 1 July 2010 6,175 24 6,199
Charge 2,053 2 2,055
Disposals (55) (26) (81)
Other movements (935) - (935)
At 30 June 2011 7,238 - 7,238
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2011 6,980 - 6,980
At 30 June 2010 7,438 7 7,445
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use by the Group.
Notes to the Financial Statements
62
Back to contents        
Company’s property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, ﬁttings, plant and equipment
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2009 1,368
Disposals (668)
At 1 July 2010 700
Other movements (630)
At 30 June 2011 70
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2009 1,342
Charge 21
Disposals (663)
At 1 July 2010 700
Other movements (630)
At 30 June 2011 70
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2011 -
At 30 June 2010 -
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use by the Company.
Notes to the Financial Statements
15. Subsidiaries
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, all of
which are incorporated in the UK, is shown
below:
• Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management
Ltd (100% shares held)
Unit trust equity broking, investment fund
management, life and pensions
consultancy
• Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Ltd
(100% shares held)
Stockbroking
• Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd
(100% shares held)
Unit trust management
• Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Ltd
(100% shares held)
Pension broking
• Hargreaves Lansdown Nominees Ltd (100%
shares held)
Nominee services
• Hargreaves Lansdown Insurance Brokers
Ltd (100% shares held)
Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown Investment
Management Ltd (100% shares held)
Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Ltd (100%
shares held)
Dormant company
• Library Information Services Ltd (75%
shares held)
Data provider
• Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Ltd
(100% shares held)
Trustee of the Employee Beneﬁt Trust
• Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Ltd
(100% shares held)
Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
63
14. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Group’s investments Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 2,322 2,382
Sales (121) (228)
Net increase in the value of available-for-sale investments 39 168
At end of year 2,240 2,322
Comprising:
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price 1,499 1,581
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost 741 741
£350,000 (2010: £471,000) of investments are classiﬁed as held at fair value through proﬁt and loss and £1,890,000 (2010: £1,851,000) are classiﬁed
as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation
gains and losses reﬂected in the investment revaluation reserve as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, until sale when the
cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other
method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that this is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent to fair value,
with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
16. Investments
Company’s investments Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 3,739 3,554
Net increase in the value of available-for-sale investments 39 185
At end of year 3,778 3,739
Comprising:
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price 1,148 1,109
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost 478 478
Non-current investments – Investments in subsidiaries valued at cost less impairment 2,152 2,152
£1,626,000 (2010: £1,587,000) of investments are classiﬁed as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where
a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation gains and losses reﬂected in the investment revaluation reserve in the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity, until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably
calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors
believe that this is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent to fair value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
Trade and other receivables Group  Company 
Year ended   Year ended    Year ended   Year ended    
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT -- 227 81
Trade receivables 147,738 91,306 - -
Other receivables 218 344 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 28,222 12,524 42 23
176,178 104,174 269 104
17 . Other ﬁnancial assets
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in proﬁt
or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange
member ﬁrms and other counterparties are included in debtors.  Trade receivables include £134.3 million (2010: £80.3 million) of counterparty
balances.
Notes to the Financial Statements
64
Back to contents        
17 . Other ﬁnancial assets (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and institutional cash funds with near-instant access.  Included in cash and cash
equivalents are amounts of cash held on client settlement accounts as shown above.  
At 30 June 2011 segregated deposit amounts held by the Group on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the Financial Services
Authority amounted to £2,248 million (2010: £2,071 million). The client retains the beneﬁcial interest in these deposits and accordingly they are not
included in the balance sheet of the Group.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Accelerated tax Future relief on Share-based Other deductible
depreciation capital losses payments temporary diﬀerences Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group
At 1 July 2009 610 98 816 302 1,826
(Charge)/credit to income (404) (98) 55 458 11
Credit to equity -- 1,104 - 1,104
At 30 June 2010 206 - 1,975 760 2,941
Credit to income 377 - 249 40 666
Credit to equity -- 4,510 - 4,510
At 30 June 2011 583 - 6,734 800 8,117
Company
At 1 July 2009 64 -- 13 77
Credit to income (29) -- - (29)
At 30 June 2010 35 -- 13 48
Credit to income (9) -- (1) (10)
At 30 June 2011 26 -- 12 38
18. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax has been
recognised at 26%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date.  The Finance Act 2011 reduces the standard UK corporation tax rate to 25% from 1
April 2012 which will reduce the deferred tax assets and liabilities shown below.
Cash and cash equivalents Group  Company
Year ended   Year ended    Year ended   Year ended    
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Restricted cash – client settlement account balances 13,538 9,729 - -
Restricted cash – balances held by EBT 469 3,289 - -
Group cash and cash equivalent balances 107,944 58,227 67,410 12,078
121,951 71,245 67,410 12,078
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
65
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements
Trade and other payables – current payables Group  Company
Year ended   Year ended    Year ended   Year ended    
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable to subsidiaries - - 12 949
Trade payables 147,450 91,494 - -
Social security and other taxes 3,359 3,233 2 2
Other payables 4,950 5,186 17 15
Accruals and deferred income 11,680 8,779 22 17
167,439 108,692 53 983
19. Other ﬁnancial liabilities
In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange member ﬁrms and other counterparties are included in creditors.
Trade payables include £146.7 million (2010: £88.7 million) of counterparty balances.  Accruals and deferred income principally comprise amounts
outstanding for trade purchases and revenue received but not yet earned on group pension schemes where an ongoing service is still being provided.
Other payables principally comprise amounts owed to clients as a loyalty bonus and to staﬀ as a bonus.
Commission on Property 
indemnity terms costs Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Included within non-current liabilities:
At 1 July 2009 375 409 784
(Utilised)/charged during the year (103) 217 114
At July 2010 272 626 898
(Utilised) during the year (272) (567) (839)
At 30 June 2011 - 59 59
20. Provisions - Group
The indemnity provision represented management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to repay commission received on indemnity terms.  
The provision was based on past experience and the volume of indemniﬁed commission. 
The provision on property related costs represents the Group’s future committed lease payments on non-cancellable leases and other contractual
obligations that arise on the surrendering of operating leases.
Year ended            Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Authorised:
525,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.4p each 2,100 2,100
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 0.4p each 1,897 1,897
Shares Shares
Issued and fully paid:
Number of ordinary shares of 0.4p each 474,318,625 474,318,625
21. Share capital
The company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income.
66
Back to contents        
Notes to the Financial Statements
Group  Company
Year ended   Year ended    Year ended   Year ended    
30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Proﬁt for the year after tax 91,947 61,275 87,897 54,336
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (1,496) (854) (87,640) (54,059)
Other gains (72) (59) (66) (95)
Income tax expense 34,066 25,020 117 221
Depreciation of plant and equipment 2,055 2,138 - 21
Amortisation of intangible assets 263 289 --
Share-based payment expense 1,618 608 --
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (839) 114 --
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 127,542 88,531 308 424
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (72,004) (28,757) (165) 324
Increase/(decrease) in payables 58,748 32,700 (930) (407)
Cash generated by operations 114,286 92,474 (787) 341
Income taxes (paid)/received (30,029) (20,944) (183) 42
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities, after tax 84,257 71,530 (970) 383
22. Notes to the consolidated cash ﬂow
Operating lease commitments – The Group as lessee Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating lease recognised as an expense in the year 2,191 3,052
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under the remaining term of non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Within one year 2,873 1,907
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 11,495 11,101
After ﬁve years 28,447 31,222
Total minimum lease payments 42,815 44,230
23. Commitments
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its oﬃce properties. The Group leases various oﬃces under non-cancellable
operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation values and renewal rights.
VAT group registration
As a result of group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other companies within the VAT group
which at 30 June 2011 amounted to £27,000 (2010: £256,000).  
Capital commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group had no signiﬁcant capital commitments (2010: £nil). 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
67
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Year ended 30 June 2011 Year ended 30 June 2010
Share Weighted average Share Weighted average
options exercise price options exercise price
No. Pence No. Pence
SIP
Outstanding at beginning of the year 748,825 23.5 776,600 23.5
Exercised during the year (63,250) 23.5 (23,375) 23.5
Forfeited during the year -- (4,400) 23.5
Outstanding at the end of the year 685,575 23.5 748,825 23.5
Exercisable at the end of the year 685,575 23.5 748,825 23.5
SAYE
Outstanding at beginning of the year 4,915,877 82.8 4,634,561 66.4
Granted during the year 203,697 477.1 418,676 268.3
Exercised during the year (104,501) 60.3 (53,006) 60.4
Forfeited during the year (170,215) 149.1 (84,354) 87.8
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,844,858 97.6 4,915,877 82.8
Exercisable at the end of the year 112,556 71.6 53,973 90.8
Executive Option Scheme
Outstanding at beginning of the year 1,326,135 242.1 829,170 195.4
Granted during the year 3,430,648 466.7 512,320 316.3
Exercised during the year (65,355) 297.9 (15,355) 195.4
Forfeited during the year (30,787) 292.3 --
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,660,641 406.3 1,326,135 242.1
Exercisable at the end of the year 89,350 295.0 30,710 195.4
JSOP
Outstanding at beginning of the year 2,750,000 -- -
Interests in shares purchased during the year -- 2,750,000 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,750,000 - 2,750,000 -
Exercisable at the end of the year -- --
24. Share-based payments
The weighted average market share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 503.35 pence.
Equity - settled share option scheme
The Group seeks to facilitate signiﬁcant equity ownership by employees, principally through schemes which encourage and assist the purchase of the
Company’s shares.  
The Group operates four share option plans: the Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”), the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Share
Incentive Plan (“SIP”),  the Hargreaves Lansdown Company Share Option Scheme (the “Executive Option Scheme") and the Hargreaves Lansdown Joint
Share Ownership Plan (“JSOP”).
Awards granted under the Employee SAYE scheme vest over ﬁve years. Awards granted under the Employee Share Incentive Plan vest over a three-year
period.  Awards granted under the Executive Option Scheme vest between nil and ten years.  Options are exercisable at a price equal to the market value
of the Company’s shares on the date of grant.  There are currently no performance conditions attached to any options granted under any of the schemes,
although options are forfeited (in most circumstances) if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.  
Interests in shares purchased under the JSOP were settled at under market value, with tax and National Insurance being paid on the diﬀerence.  The
shares must be held for a minimum of three years under the terms of the Deeds and are realisable in only very limited circumstances before that date.
There are no performance conditions attached to the shares.
The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 which had not vested by 1 July 2005. They
have not been applied to any grants made prior to 7 November 2002.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
Notes to the Financial Statements
68
Back to contents        
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 June 2011 Year ended 30 June 2010
Weighted average Weighted average
Share expected Share expected
options No. remaining life options No. remaining life
Options exercise price range (pence)
23.5 685,575 0 years 748,825 0 years
54.5 3,906,537 0.8 years 4,081,825 1.8 years
175.0 367,217 2.3 years 421,171 3.3 years
195.4 767,750 2.8 years 813,815 3.8 years
286.3 369,691 3.7 years 412,881 4.7 years
268.8 2,750,000 1.4 years 2,750,000 2.4 years
283.8 250,000 1.3 years 250,000 2.3 years
347.2 262,320 3.7 years 262,320 4.7 years
388.8 1,142,874 4.2 years --
409.8 500,000 2.2 years --
458.0 800,000 2.3 years --
477.1 201,413 4.7 years --
595.0 212,897 4.7 years --
606.3 724,800 2.9 years --
12,941,074 1.9 years 9,740,837 2.2 years
At 30 June 2011 At 30 June 2010
Weighted average share price 516.27p 296.25p
Expected dividend yields 2.94% 4.09%
SAYE
Weighted average exercise price 477.08p 268.30p
Expected volatility 36% 47%
Risk-free rate 2.50% 3.00%
Expected life 5 years 5 years
Executive scheme
Weighted average exercise price 466.73p 316.28p
Expected volatility 40% 38%
Risk-free rate 2.50% 3.00%
Expected life 4 years 4 years
JSOP
Expected volatility - 37%
Risk-free rate - 3.00%
Expected life - 3 years
24. Share-based payments (continued)
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year ended 30 June 2011 and the year ended 30 June 2010 has been estimated by the
Black-Scholes methodology and the principal assumptions required by the methodology were as follows:
The share options outstanding at the end of each year have exercise prices and expected and remaining lives as follows:
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price existed for the shares.
The share price of share option awards granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market value agreed with HM Revenue & Customs using an
earnings multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies.  Similarly, share price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility
experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies.  The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best
estimate, for the eﬀects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.  Since 15 May 2007, a quoted market price has
been available for the Company’s shares. 
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions as shown in note 7.
25. Events after balance sheet date
On 1 September 2011 the Directors proposed a second interim (ﬁnal) ordinary dividend payment of 8.41 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend
of 5.96 pence per ordinary share, payable on 29 September 2011 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 September as detailed
in note 10. 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
69
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
26. Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and with its directors and members of the Executive Committee (the “key management
personnel”). Transactions between the Group and its key management personnel are disclosed below.  Details of transactions between the Group and
other related parties are also disclosed below.      
Trading transactions
The Group entered into the following transactions with directors and related parties who are not members of the Group:
During the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 the Group has been party to a lease with P K Hargreaves and S P Lansdown, who are both
directors of the Company, for the rental of the old head oﬃce premises at Kendal House. Previously the rental was £302,400 per annum for the whole
building but as from 6 April 2011 a new ten year lease was signed for a rental of part of the building, to be used for disaster recovery purposes at a rental
of £105,000 per annum. No amount was outstanding at either year end.
Following the move to the new oﬃce in February 2010, notice was given to terminate the lease on Kendal House. As part of the termination from that
lease, an exit fee of £150,000 and £215,000 in dilapidation costs were paid in the year ended 30 June 2011. Both amounts had been fully accrued for in
the Group accounts for the year ended 30 June 2010. Both amounts ultimately went to P K Hargreaves and S P Lansdown.
On 31 March 2011 Hargreaves Lansdown plc sold 10% of the ordinary share capital it held in its subsidiary undertaking Library Information Services
Limited (LIS). The shares were sold to Stuart Louden the founder director of LIS and currently the only other shareholder, who is an employee of
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. The price paid per share was £671. There is no readily available market for these shares and hence a
valuation was arrived at based on the book value of the business discounted by 25% to allow for the lack of market for these shares. The directors of
Hargreaves Lansdown plc deemed this to be a fair price in the circumstances. The total amount paid was £67,100 and this was settled immediately in
cash. Following the share sale Hargreaves Lansdown plc now holds 75% of the ordinary share capital in LIS and Stuart Louden holds 25%. The
transaction was completed in order to provide further incentive to Stuart Louden to successfully develop the business of LIS. Hargreaves Lansdown plc
retains control of LIS which continues to be accounted for as a subsidiary.
During the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 the Group has provided a range of investment services to shareholders, directors and staﬀ on
normal third party business terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration, excluding National Insurance costs, of the key management personnel of the Group being those personnel who were either a member
of the Board of a Group company or a member of the Executive Committee during the relevant year shown below, is set out below in aggregate for each
of the categories speciﬁed in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.  
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 (£’000) 30 June 2010 (£’000)
Short-term employee beneﬁts 6,877 3,979
Deﬁned contribution pension costs 245 243
Share-based payments 1,097 337
8,219 4,559
Included within the previous table are the following amounts paid to directors of the Company who served during the relevant year.  Full details of
directors’ remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Committee report. 
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 (£’000) 30 June 2010 (£’000)
Wages and salaries, excluding national insurance costs 2,197 1,040
Pension contributions 47 32
Share-based payments 763 114
3,007 1,186
Emoluments of the highest paid director 1,034 406
Number of directors who were members of money purchase pension schemes 2 1
Transactions between subsidiaries and between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.
The parent Company, Hargreaves Lansdown plc, entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and the Employee Beneﬁt Trust, which are
related parties.
Year ended Year ended
30 June 2011 (£’000) 30 June 2010 (£’000)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 87,500 53,800
Management charges to subsidiaries 720 720
Amount owed to related parties at 30 June 12 949
Amounts owed by related parties at 30 June 227 81
All amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash.  No guarantees have been given or received in respect of
amounts outstanding.  No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties.  
Notes to the Financial Statements
70
Back to contents        
Notes to the Financial Statements
27 . Financial instruments
Fair value
The fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are not materially diﬀerent from their carrying values.  Market values have been used to
determine the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets where there is a quoted market price.  Investments in
equity instruments which do not have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost
which the directors believe is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent to fair value.  
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides an analysis of ﬁnancial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1
to 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable:
Level 1 - Fair value measured using unadjusted quoted market prices
Level 2 - Fair value measured using inputs derived from observable market data
Level 3 - Fair value measured using valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2011
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 350 -- 350
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 1,149 - 741 1,890
1,499 - 741 2,240
At 30 June 2010
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 471 -- 471
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 1,110 - 741 1,851
1,581 - 741 2,322
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Nature and extent of risks arising from ﬁnancial instruments
(a) Financial risk management
Financial assets principally comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and current asset listed and unlisted investments.
Financial liabilities comprise certain provisions and trade and other payables. The main risks arising from ﬁnancial instruments are market risk
(including interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk), liquidity risk, and credit risk. Each of these risks is discussed in detail below. 
The Group monitors ﬁnancial risks on a consolidated basis.  Hargreaves Lansdown’s ﬁnancial risk management is based upon sound economic
objectives and good corporate practice.  No hedging transactions have taken place during the years presented.  The Group has designed a
framework to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the Directors have in place risk management practices appropriate to a listed
company. The management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board. 
(b) Market risk
• Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest bearing assets.  There is an exposure to
interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business.  At 30 June 2011 the value of ﬁnancial instruments on the Group
balance sheet exposed to interest rate risk was £121,951,000 (2010: £71,245,000) comprising cash and cash equivalents.  A 100bps (1%) move
in interest rates, in isolation, would not have a material impact on the Group balance sheet or results.  This exposure is continually monitored to
ensure that the Group is maximising its interest earning potential within accepted liquidity and credit constraints. The Group has no external
borrowings and as such is not exposed to interest rate or reﬁnancing risk on borrowings.  Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on
daily bank deposit rates.  Short term deposits are also made for varying periods of between one day and 12 months depending on the
immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective ﬁxed term deposit rates.  As a source of revenue is based on the
value of client cash under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to interest rate risk on cash balances held for clients. These
balances are not on the Group balance sheet. 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
71
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
• Foreign exchange translation and transaction risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates.  With substantially
all of the Group's businesses located within the UK, and therefore with minimal net assets and transactions of the Group denominated in
foreign currencies, the Group is not exposed to signiﬁcant foreign exchange translation or transaction risk and as such does not hedge any
foreign current assets or liabilities.  The Group deals in foreign currencies on a matched basis on behalf of clients, limiting foreign exchange
exposure.  
• Price risk
Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts on the proﬁtability of the Group as a result of an asset not meeting its
expected value.  
The Group is exposed to price risk on corporate investments held on the Group balance sheet.  At 30 June 2011, the fair value of investments
recognised on the Group balance sheet was £2,240,000 (2010: £2,322,000).  A 20% move in equity prices, in isolation, would not have a
material impact on the Group balance sheet or results. 
As a main source of revenue is based on the value of client assets under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to security price
risk on investments held for clients. These assets are not on the Group balance sheet.  The risk of lower revenues is partially mitigated by asset
class diversiﬁcation.  The Group does not hedge its revenue exposure to movements in the value of client assets arising from these risks, and so
the interests of the Group are aligned to those of its clients.
In addition, the Group acts as a private client investment manager, unit trust manager and agency stockbroker on a matched basis so its
exposure to market price movements in this capacity is limited to when there is a trade mismatch or error, or if one matched counterparty fails to
fulﬁl its obligations.  The impact of these risks is minimised 
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, namely the risk that it may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.  The Group is highly
cash generative and holds signiﬁcant liquid assets.  The Group actively maintains cash balances on short-term deposit to ensure that the Group has
suﬃcient available funds for operations.  
The table below analyses the maturities of the undiscounted cash ﬂows relating to ﬁnancial liabilities of the Group based on the remaining period to
the contractual maturity date at the balance sheet date.
27 . Financial instruments (continued)
0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2011
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 147,089 271 90 - 147,450
Social security and other taxes 3,156 13 - 190 3,359
Other payables 4,914 - 36 - 4,950
Accruals and deferred income 1,945 34 -- 1,979
157,104 318 126 190 157,738
Current tax 9,519 9,223 -- 18,742
Long-term provisions -- - 59 59
Total ﬁnancial liability exposed to liquidity risk 166,623 9,541 126 249 176,539
At 30 June 2010
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 91,494 -- - 91,494
Social security and other taxes 3,156 77 -- 3,233
Other payables 4,734 391 61 - 5,186
Accruals and deferred income 2,105 845 1,645 - 4,595
101,489 1,313 1,706 - 104,508
Current tax 7,011 6,102 948 - 14,061
Long-term provisions 898 -- - 898
Total ﬁnancial liability exposed to liquidity risk 109,398 7,415 2,654 - 119,467
Notes to the Financial Statements
72
Back to contents        
Notes to the Financial Statements
(d) Credit risk
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk as credit exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.  
Within the Group’s Stockbroking operation, the Group is exposed to credit risk from counterparties to a securities transaction during the period
between the trade date and the settlement date. This period is generally three business days. The Group has credit exposure that extends beyond
the original settlement date if the counterparty fails either to make payment or to deliver securities. These transactions are with ﬁnancial
institutions and clients.  Settlement risk is substantially mitigated as a result of the delivery versus payment mechanism whereby if a counterparty
fails to make payment, the securities would not be delivered to the counterparty. In that instance, the securities could be sold in the market and
therefore the economic substance of the transaction is that securities serve as collateral in the case of delivery versus payment trade debtors. As a
result, the risk exposure is eﬀectively to an adverse movement in market prices between the time of trade and settlement.  
Other credit risk within the Group is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and the majority represents balances due from other regulated
ﬁnancial institutions where there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and institution. Credit risk is therefore considered to be limited.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an
identiﬁed loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash ﬂows.
Cash is held with UK banks. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by
international credit-rating agencies and since November 2008 the banks consist of certain eligible banks under the UK Government Credit
Guarantee Scheme. The Group takes a conservative approach to treasury management and selection of banking counterparties, and carries out a
regular review of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings.    
27 . Financial instruments (continued)
The following table discloses the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk on ﬁnancial assets:
At 30 June 2011 At 30 June 2010
£’000 £’000
Receivables at cost:
Cash and cash equivalents 121,951 71,245
Trade and other receivables 176,178 104,174
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss:
Financial investments 350 471
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets:
Financial investments 1,890 1,851
300,369 177,741
The following table contains an analysis of ﬁnancial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date.  An asset is past due when the counterparty has
failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Neither 
impaired nor 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 12 months
past due past due past due past due past due Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2011
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 145,409 1,949 221 92 67 147,738
Other receivables 218 -- -- 218
Prepayments and accrued income 28,222 -- -- 28,222
173,849 1,949 221 92 67 176,178
Held-for-trading assets 350 -- -- 350
Available-for-sale assets 1,890 -- -- 1,890
176,089 1,949 221 92 67 178,418
At 30 June 2010
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 85,823 4,444 565 417 57 91,306
Other receivables 343 1- -- 344
Prepayments and accrued income 12,524 -- -- 12,524
98,690 4,445 565 417 57 104,174
Held-for-trading assets 471 -- -- 471
Available-for-sale assets 1,851 -- -- 1,851
101,012 4,445 565 417 57 106,496
The following table contains an analysis of ﬁnancial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date.  An asset is past due when the
counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
73
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
The table below shows the credit quality of ﬁnancial assets that are neither past due nor impaired using the following counterparty gradings:
• Financial institutions
In respect of trade receivables, £14.5 million (2010: £3.2 million) is due from ﬁnancial institutions regulated by the FSA in the course of settlement
as a result of daily trading and £10.0 million (2010: £7.3 million) relates to revenue items due from ﬁnancial institutions regulated by the FSA.
For prepayments and accrued income, the balance predominantly relates to accrued interest due from ﬁnancial institutions regulated by the FSA on
own and client cash balances.
• Corporate clients 
Prepayments relating to businesses other than ﬁnancial institutions, mainly purchase suppliers.
• Individuals
In respect of trade receivables, the balance is related to amounts due from individual clients in the course of settlement as a result of daily trading. 
In respect of prepayments and accrued income, the balance includes management fees and charges due from clients.
27 . Financial instruments (continued)
Financial Corporate 
institutions clients Individuals Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2011
Trade receivables 24,811 37 120,561 145,409
Other receivables 218 -- 218
Prepayments and accrued income 23,670 2,323 2,229 28,222
Held-for-trading assets 350 -- 350
Available-for-sale assets 1,890 -- 1,890
50,939 2,360 122,790 176,089
At 30 June 2010
Trade receivables 10,531 - 75,292 85,823
Other receivables 343 -- 343
Prepayments and accrued income 8,482 2,108 1,934 12,524
Held-for-trading assets 471 -- 471
Available-for-sale assets 1,851 -- 1,851
21,678 2,108 77,226 101,012
Notes to the Financial Statements
Capital management
Capital is deﬁned as the total of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves. Total capital at 30 June 2011 was £130,867,000
(2010: £66,053,000) and this capital is managed via the net assets to which it relates.  
Regulatory capital is determined in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive prescribed in the UK by the Financial
Services Authority (“FSA”), and the Group’s regulatory capital is divided into two tiers:
• Tier 1 capital, which is the total of issued share capital, retained earnings and reserves created by appropriations of retained earnings, net of the
book value of goodwill and other intangible assets; and 
• Tier 2 capital, which is unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are i) to comply with the regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA; ii) to safeguard the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders; and iii) to maintain
a strong capital base to support the development of its business.
All regulated entities within the Group are required to meet the Pillar 1 regulatory Capital Resources Requirements (CRR) set out in the Capital
Requirements Directive (the “Directive”).  The CRR is the higher of i) the ﬁxed overhead requirement and ii) the sum of the credit risk capital requirement
and the market risk capital requirement. 
The Group is also required to comply with the requirements of the Directive under Pillar 2 (Operational Risk) and Pillar 3 (Disclosure) in respect of the
Group’s regulatory capital requirements. The Directive requires continual assessment of the Group’s risks in order to ensure that the higher of Pillar 1
and 2 requirements is met, the objective being to ensure that the regulated ﬁrms have adequate capital to enable them to manage their risks. The Group
completes its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) under Pillar 2, which
is a forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major risks, such as a signiﬁcant market downturn, and identifying mitigating action. The
ICAAP covers current as well as projected capital requirements, and is used to manage regulatory capital. Under the requirements of Pillar 3, the Group
is required to disclose regulatory capital information, and has done so by making the disclosures available in the Group’s website at
http://www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/pillar-3-disclosures.
All of the regulated ﬁrms maintained surplus regulated capital throughout the year.  The aggregated regulatory Pillar 1 capital surplus across the four
regulated subsidiaries was approximately £46 million at 30 June 2011 (2010: £42 million).The regulated subsidiaries are limited in the distributions that
can be paid up to the parent by their individual capital requirements. Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group’s
management. 
74
Back to contents        
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Ian Gorham
Peter Hargreaves  
Tracey Taylor
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Chris Barling
Jonathan Bloomer 
Michael Evans
Stephen Lansdown 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Judy Matthews
AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP , Bristol
SOLICITORS
Burges Salmon LLP , Bristol
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Bristol
BROKERS
Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
Numis Securities Limited
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
REGISTERED OFFICE
One College Square South
Anchor Road
Bristol
BS1 5HL
WEBSITE
www.hl.co.uk 
COMPANY NUMBER
02122142
Directors, Company Secretary, Advisers and Shareholder Information
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
75
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Five Year Summary
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 207,904 158,970 132,845 120,332 98,769
Administrative expenses (83,459) (73,588) (63,038) (62,553) (58,098)
Underlying operating proﬁt 127,481 89,811 69,807 57,779 40,671
One-oﬀ administrative expenses (3,036) (4,429) -- (29,628)
Operating proﬁt 124,445 85,382 69,807 57,779 11,043
Investment revenue 1,496 854 2,534 3,113 1,430
Other gains and losses 72 59 740 53 11,917
Proﬁt before tax 126,013 86,295 73,081 60,945 24,390
Tax (34,066) (25,020) (20,968) (18,551) (7,435)
Proﬁt after tax 91,947 61,275 52,113 42,394 16,955
Equity minority interests (127) (9) 10 7-
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to members of the parent company 91,820 61,266 52,123 42,401 16,955
Equity shareholders’ funds 130,801 66,114 84,720 70,371 44,495
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted EPS (million) 469.07 468.42 469.32 470.98 474.32
pence pence pence pence pence
Equity dividends per share paid during year 6.78 16.636 7.809 3.065 3.00
Basic earnings per share
19.8 13.2 11.2 9.1 3.6
Diluted earnings per share
19.6 13.1 11.1 9.0 3.6
Underlying basic earnings per share 20.3 14.0 11.3 9.1 6.5 
Underlying diluted earnings per share 20.0 13.9 11.3 9.0 6.4 
76
Back to contents        Back to contents Issued by Hargreaves Lansdown plc
One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Registered number: 02122142
Back to contents
