 One College Square South,
Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Registered number 02122142
www.hl.co.uk
Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc
Report and 
Financial 
Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 We have been helping clients choose and 
manage their own investments since 1981 
and are now the UK’s largest direct to 
investor ‘investment supermarket’ with an 
annual turnover in excess of £358 million.  
We provide execution only, advisory services 
and third party investments for individuals 
and corporates.  We administer 
£46.9 billion of investments in our ISA, 
SIPP and Investment accounts for 652,000 
clients, and have arranged investments for 
over a million clients.
Our success is built around providing our 
clients a high quality service tailored to their 
needs, and ensuring that our clients have 
access to enough information to support 
them with making their own investment 
decisions. Our knowledgeable and helpful 
staff, technology and experience enable us to 
provide a high quality and convenient service 
to our clients.  
This year’s report contains a new strategic report on pages 1 to 28, 
which includes an explanation of our business model, an analysis of 
our performance, a review of the business during the year and an 
outline of the principal risks and uncertainties we face. The strategic 
report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer
Ian Gorham  Tracey Taylor  
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
16 September 2014
About us
“WE AIM TO HELP INVESTORS 
MAKE MORE OF THEIR 
INVESTMENTS” 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 1
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
Highlights 1 
Our services 2
Chairman’s statement 7 
Chief Executive’s review 8
Business model  10
Strategic priorities and progress 12
Business review 14
Market review 17
Measuring our performance (KPIs) 18
Financial review  19
Principal risks and uncertainties 23
Corporate social responsibility 26
Our people 28
GOVERNANCE
 
Governance overview 29 
Board of directors 30
Corporate governance report 32
Audit committee report 39
Directors’ remuneration report 42
Directors’ report: other information 55 
Statement of directors’  
responsibilities 58
Highlights 
NET REVENUE (£M)
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (PENCE) DIVIDEND PER SHARE (PENCE)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (£M)
2010
147.2
2010
13.1
2010
86.3
2010
11.88
192.2
2011
19.6
2011
126.0
2011
18.87
2011
222.3
2012
24.1
2012
152.8
2012
22.59
2012
269.2
2013
31.4
2013
195.2
2013
29.59
2013
291.9
2014
34.2
2014
209.8
2014
32.0
2014
£291.9m
34.2p
32.0p
£209.8m
£46.9 BILLION
Value of investments 
administered for clients,  
a 29% increase.
9.3 MILLION
Number of trades dealt 
for clients in the year, 
a 33% increase.
£6.4 BILLION
Value of net new business 
inflows, a 25% increase. 
652,000
Number of clients, up by 
144,000, a 28% increase.
• Profit before tax increased by 7% to £209.8 million
• Continued strong organic growth in Assets Under 
Administration
• 28% increase in the total number of clients
• Total dividend up 8% at 32.0 pence per share
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Independent auditors’ report 59 
Consolidated income statement 62
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income  62
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 63
Consolidated balance sheet 64
Consolidated statement of cash flows 65
Notes to the consolidated financial  
statements 66
Parent company financial statements 93
Directors, company details, advisers 101
Five-year summary 102
Definition of terms 103
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 2  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Our services
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help 
each client make more of their money 
throughout their lifetime.  We have 
established a reputation for providing 
high quality service and value-for-money 
products to private investors, whether 
they are making their own investment 
decisions or looking for an advisory or 
discretionary service. 
Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments. Clients can hold all their 
funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, investment trusts, ISAs and self-invested 
personal pensions (SIPPs) in a single, low cost, easy-to-manage 
place.
Whether a first time investor or wanting to improve the way that 
existing investments are managed, our aim is to give our clients 
all the tools, help and information they need to make their own 
investment decisions and save money. In effect we want to help 
people become their own financial adviser.
The Vantage Service allows clients to bring all their ISAs, Pensions 
(SIPPs), and funds and share accounts into one easy to manage 
place. It puts them in control. Clients can consolidate their 
investments – for example, pensions accumulated in previous 
employment – into the Vantage service to keep track of their 
investments and manage them in one place.  Clients can manage 
their investments by telephone, post, online or mobile and by 
dealing with us directly, they can save time and money.
CORPORATE VANTAGE 
In addition to services for private individuals we are a leading 
provider and broker of corporate pension and wrap solutions. Our 
corporate wrap allows employees to benefit from the Hargreaves 
Lansdown Vantage service via their workplace. Corporate Vantage 
includes award-winning SIPP , ISA, Fund and Share accounts.   
Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown also provides other 
services to companies including a market-leading retirement and 
annuity broking service allowing employees to obtain a higher 
income via our annuity search engine.  Our Corporate annuity and 
Corporate Vantage wrap services are provided to many household 
names.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SERVICE
If clients are not able to give their investment portfolio the attention it 
deserves, our solution is the Portfolio Management Service.
Our experienced investment managers work closely with our research 
analysts to continually find the best fund managers for our portfolios. 
The portfolios are constantly reviewed by the manager and rebalanced 
to maintain the investment objectives. Where necessary, changes are 
made to the portfolios by the investment manager.
HL MULTI-MANAGER FUNDS
HL Multi-Manager funds offer a broad, managed portfolio of funds 
through a single investment, for those who wish to leave the choice of 
underlying funds to our experts.
Whether they are a first time investor in need of a simple way to invest 
in the stock market or a more experienced investor looking for a broadly 
based fund around which to group specialised holdings, each HL Multi-
Manager fund provides a professionally monitored portfolio holding what 
we believe are some of the best fund managers in their field.
Vantage Service – our investment 
service for self-directed investors
Discretionary service and 
managed funds
£221.0m net revenue 
+8%
£44.9m net revenue 
+32% 3 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
During the financial year our website and apps were visited 73 million 
times, up 65% on the previous year. These visits gave rise to over 767 
million page views (up 68%).  In August 2014 our website was ranked 
5th in the UK Business and Finance - Stocks and Shares category by 
Experian Hitwise. 
A number of digital initiatives over the past year have contributed to 
this growth. The HL Live iPad app launched in December has already 
received more than 67,000 downloads and now accounts for around 
10% of unique daily visitors. Free live share prices launched in May this 
year, along with improved information and research on funds, shares, 
investment trusts and bonds, has increased visits and engagement 
among both clients and prospective clients.
We have continued to invest heavily in digital marketing; making better 
use of technology and data to improve our targeting and conversion of 
prospective clients. Much of the benefit of which will be seen over the 
coming financial year. New and experimental channels have delivered 
promising volumes of new clients. Meanwhile more traditional channels 
such as natural/organic search are also performing well (natural search 
traffic is up more than 90% on the last financial year). 
The Third Party and Other services division distributes investment 
products that are not held in Vantage accounts. 
ANNUITIES SERVICE - A RETIREMENT SERVICE THAT COULD 
INCREASE INCOME BY UP TO 40%
As the UK’s number one annuity broker (source: MyTouchstone) we 
help individuals obtain a superior retirement income. Our annuity 
service enables clients to find a better pension income - in some 
health or lifestyle cases it can improve income by up to 40%. We 
provide instant personal no obligation quotes completely online 
in minutes, allowing clients to compare live annuity rates from the 
UK’s top annuity providers across the open market.  The online 
annuity service is clear and simple to use, and is supported by our 
knowledgeable annuity specialists who are available to answer any 
query.   We also make this annuity service available to employers for 
use by their employees.
For those who prefer more flexibility and accept a higher risk 
approach, we also offer a very competitive Vantage Income 
Drawdown service to be used alongside or as an alternative to a 
secured annuity income. 
CERTIFICATED SHARE DEALING 
Most clients prefer the convenience and cost of the Vantage share 
dealing service.  For those who prefer to hold paper share certificates 
our low cost, quick and easy Certificated Share Dealing Service 
allows clients to buy or sell shares in certificated form without fuss or 
inconvenience.
OTHER SERVICES
We offer  a foreign currency service to both private clients and 
companies and for more sophisticated investors we offer the ability to 
invest in Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs), Contracts For Difference and 
Financial Spread Betting. The full range of our services can be viewed 
on the website at www.hl.co.uk/investment-services
Our website and digital apps Third party and other services
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73m visits to our 
websites and apps
+65%
£26.0m 
+16%
INVESTMENT TIMES IPAD MAGAZINE 4  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Why clients choose Hargreaves Lansdown 
On this and the following two pages 
we have set out some of the reasons 
why clients choose to use Hargreaves 
Lansdown.
When choosing an investment service, 
the 4 most important considerations are:
 SECURITY  
  
 SCOPE AND QUALITY  
OF SERVICE
 CONVENIENCE AND  
EASE 
 VALUE FOR MONEY
Hargreaves Lansdown is a trusted brand 
and a financially secure business.  We 
offer an exceptional range of investments 
and services, and have invested in 
skilled helpdesk staff and advanced 
technology to ensure that we provide a 
consistently high quality, accessible and 
convenient service.  We do not set out 
to be the cheapest; instead we aim to 
offer the best value.  We offer a range 
of information, tools and services for 
clients who prefer to choose their own 
investments as well as financial advice 
for those who want more help.
We aim to provide the best service, best 
information and best prices to ensure 
that we remain the best place in the UK 
to buy investments.
Our business is scalable, which means 
as we grow our costs do not increase as 
much as our income. This means we can 
regularly invest to improve our service 
and/or reduce our prices. During 2014 we 
have implemented further improvements 
to our services, and negotiated lower 
cost investment funds for our clients.  
MARK DAMPIER – HEAD OF RESEARCH (LEFT), LEE GARDHOUSE – INVESTMENT DIRECTOR
“Excellent as always. Service is 
key in financial services & HL 
have certainly achieved this for 
me over last 10 years.”
MR SIMON ANNEAR, DEVON
“Very helpful and knowledgeable 
staff; real people take calls – 
brilliant in this day and age.  
The best organisation I have ever 
dealt with in all my business life 
spanning 45 years.” 
MR SMITH, EAST SUSSEX
“Fast, efficient - hassle free 
transfer. Excellent source of info 
available on web site. Easy to 
navigate and full of ‘useful stuff.” 
MR NAITHAN TUCKER, ESSEX
“I wanted somebody else to do 
the investing for me. I’ve been 
very, very, very pleased with the 
results!”
ROGER THOMPSON, SOMERSET
1
2
3
4
RECENT CLIENT COMMENTS . . . 5 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
TRUST AND SECURITY
A recognised, trusted and 
financially secure FTSE100 
business. Dedicated to keeping 
our clients' investments safe and 
secure.
EXCELLENT SERVICE
94.4%
*
 of clients rated our 
service as excellent, very good 
or good.
*Based on a survey of 9,371 respondents in 
August 2014.
CONVENIENCE AND EASE
Our mobile App has been 
downloaded 200,000+ times
and the iPad App 67,000+ times.
HELPFUL AND  
KNOWLEDGEABLE STAFF
The call response target time of 
our helpdesks is 10 seconds.
INVESTMENT EXPERTS
We have been helping clients 
to make the most of their 
investments since 1981.
TRUSTED SOURCE OF 
USEFUL, INDEPENDENT 
INFORMATION
The number of visits to our 
website and apps this year was 
73.0 million.
ADVICE WHEN YOU NEED IT
We offer financial advice, 
financial planning and portfolio 
management, or tools and 
support to do it yourself.
SAVINGS, VALUE FOR MONEY
On behalf of our clients we have 
negotiated some of the best 
(and often exclusive) discounts 
on funds in the market.
CHOICE
A wide range of investments 
– 2,500+ funds, 10,000+ 
UK, US and European shares, 
investment trusts, gilts, ETFs, 
bonds and cash.
CLIENT FOCUSSED 
IMPROVEMENT WE LISTEN 
TO OUR CLIENTS. 
Their feedback is key to how we 
improve and grow our services.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Award-winning services
Our experience gained over 
four decades has allowed 
us to develop a service 
tailored precisely to the 
needs of private investors. 
94.4% of our clients rate 
our service good, very 
good or excellent, we win 
numerous prestigious 
industry awards and our 
clients’ continued loyalty 
has created a successful 
and financially secure blue 
chip company.
All our awards are listed on our website – 
but underlying all of them is a commitment 
to excellence shared by everybody in the 
Hargreaves Lansdown team. 
www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/our-awards
Recent awards include
Which? 2014 
Which Recommended
Provider
BRITAINS MOST 
ADMIRED 
COMPANIES
2013/14
MT
BEST DIRECT 
PLATFORM 2014
THE PLATFORUM
BEST ONLINE 
JUNIOR STOCKS 
& SHARES ISA 
PROVIDER 2014
YOUR MONEY
BEST FOR 
BEGINNERS
DIRECT PLATFORM 
AWARDS 2014
THE LANG CAT
BEST FINANCIAL 
SERVICES 2013
UK STOCK 
MARKET AWARDS
TECHNOLOGY 
INOVATION OF 
THE YEAR 2014
UK PENSION 
AWARDS
BEST SERVICE 
2014
THE PLATFORUM
BEST DIRECT 
SIPP PROVIDER
2013 & 2014
YOUR MONEY
BEST DIRECT 
PLATFORUM
2013
THE PLATFORUM
BEST SIPP 
PROVIDER 
2007-2013 
WHAT INVESTMENT 
READERS AWARD
Best SIPP Provider 
Hargreaves Lansdown 
2007, 2008, 2009,
2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
2013 7 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s statement
I have great pleasure introducing our Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 
2014 in which we announce another strong set of results.  
In accordance with the new reporting rules, we have enhanced our 
annual report with the inclusion of a Strategic Report to present a clearer 
articulation of our strategy and business model. This report places more 
focus on giving investors the strategic forward-looking information 
that they need to guide their investment decisions. In addition revised 
remuneration reporting regulations have been incorporated as explained 
on page 42. 
This year has been dominated by regulation. The introduction of the 
Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”) for platforms in April has necessitated 
significant Board and management attention. Successfully designing, 
announcing and implementing a completely new charging structure for 
our clients holding fund investments to the satisfaction of our clients, our 
shareholders and the regulator was a major achievement. Despite this 
challenge, we managed to maintain our focus on growing the business 
organically, enhancing our digital proposition, adding functionality to our 
stockbroking business whilst continuing to work on improvements and 
the long term sustainability of our IT platform. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, the Group has once again increased 
both profits and assets under administration as we achieved record new 
business flows and record new client numbers.  We continue to be a 
financially strong organisation with a simple, strong, debt-free balance 
sheet retaining a healthy margin over the regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements.  Therefore after careful review of the company’s future 
cash requirements, the Board has decided to increase the dividend by 
paying a second interim ordinary dividend of 15.39p per share (2013: 
14.38p) and an increased special dividend of 9.61p per share (2013: 
8.91p) representing total dividends for the year of 32.0p per share 
(2013: 29.59p); an increase of 8%.
Good governance continues to be at the heart of what we do. The 
majority of the agreed actions from last year’s Board effectiveness 
review have been implemented, with the introduction of more frequent 
board meetings and a greater focus on strategy. Much attention has 
been paid to developing the talent within the business and refreshing 
the organisational structure to meet the future challenges of the Group. 
Details of our governance statement can be found on pages 29 to 41. 
In October 2013, we made a number of changes to our Board and 
Committee membership: we were delighted to welcome Shirley 
Garrood to the Board as a new independent Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chris Barling was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
Jonathan Bloomer stepped down after over seven years on the Board. 
Jonathan’s extensive experience of the financial services industry and 
thoughtful contributions have been very valuable. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank him for all his contributions. 
As ever, the coming year will be a challenging one with competition 
intensifying in all areas of our business but we remain well placed to 
continue to satisfy our clients and thrive in our chosen markets. Our 
people are integral to our success and, as always my gratitude goes to 
the Board and the talented people we employ for their continuing hard 
work, diligence and enthusiasm. 
Michael Evans – Chairman
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s review
We are pleased to present our results for 
the year ended 30 June 2014, once again 
reporting record new clients, net new 
business and operating profits.   
The year to 30 June 2014 was characterised by continued substantial 
new asset and client flows into Hargreaves Lansdown’s services and 
successful adoption of extensive regulatory change.
The standout result was our record growth in net new business and 
clients.  Net new business was £6.4 billion (+25%) and we welcomed 
144,000 net new clients (+89% compared to last year).
Hargreaves Lansdown is the largest business of its type in the UK, with 
an estimated 32% of the direct investment market (Source: The Direct 
Platform Guide Issue 4, February 2014), up from 28% last year.
High service levels were rewarded not only through record new clients 
and assets, but also through a number of awards. We were delighted 
to be voted by Which? as the U.K.’s best and recommended investment 
platform.  Hargreaves Lansdown also won numerous other awards, 
including the Platforum’s best user experience and Management Today’s 
Britain’s Most Admired Company for Speciality and Other finance.
During the year the Company had to cope with major regulatory change, 
the most significant of which being the FCA’s Retail Distribution Review 
(“RDR”).  We are pleased we have been able to deliver this change 
successfully and delivered lower costs of investing for the majority of our 
clients at the same time. We now look forward to seeking to maintain 
our success in our growing marketplace.  
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN’S 2014 RESULTS 
We are pleased to report a record profit before tax of £209.8 million, up 
7% on last year’s £195.2 million. Our ability to attract and retain assets 
and clients by accessing key distribution channels and delivery of service 
excellence continues to be a primary driver of revenue growth.  Our 
revenue has also been enhanced by growth in complementary services 
such as stockbroking, fund management, discretionary management and 
pension drawdown services. 
We also report a 29% increase in client assets under administration from 
£36.4 billion to £46.9 billion. Net new business for the year was £6.4 billion 
(2013: £5.1 billion) with market movement and other factors adding a further 
£4.1 billion.  An additional net new 144,000 investors (2013: 76,000) 
became clients during the year, of which 42,000 related to IPOs, taking total 
active clients for Vantage and advised services combined to 652,000. 
Positive sentiment, allied to continued low interest rates, served to 
improve stock markets during the year, with the FTSE All-Share index 
advancing 9.4% in the year to 30 June 2014.  
The interest rate environment remains depressed, and therefore income 
from cash balances has reduced over the period.  Interest income 
should increase when rates recover.  However, in the short term we are 
experiencing reduced margins on cash balances which is the primary 
reason why asset and client growth exceeded expansion in profit.
A busy year of stock market activity has been beneficial to Hargreaves 
Lansdown in terms of adding new clients and new business. Of particular 
note was the Royal Mail flotation, where around 118,000 people, 
approximately 18.5% of the UK public who invested in Royal Mail shares, 
did so through Hargreaves Lansdown. We saw days when up to 60,000 
people tried to call Hargreaves Lansdown, and during the two key 
weeks of the Royal Mail flotation our website received 3.5 million hits. 
For a short period of time this put pressure on service levels. We have 
implemented changes as a result of this experience and service levels 
were improved as we dealt with the combined peak impact of the TSB 
flotation and Woodford fund launch in June 2014. 
Our Corporate Vantage service continues to expand, with 211 schemes 
live or in implementation (2013: 167).  This increase in schemes has 
been accompanied by a 59% increase in Corporate Vantage assets, 
which now stand at £984 million, and post year-end passed the 
£1 billion landmark.  Although this project remains long-term in nature 
we remain satisfied with the success to date.
2014/2015 MARKET OUTLOOK
There are welcome signs of a return to stronger economic trading 
conditions, and greater capitalisation of banks has served to enhance 
stability across most markets.  Whether this will translate into stronger 
stock markets remains to be seen.  In particular markets are likely to be 
influenced by the performance of Asian economies, particularly China, and 
markets generally remain subject to the influence of geopolitical events.
COMPANY OUTLOOK
The delivery of the changes required by the Retail Distribution Review 
engaged company resources and time for the best part of 18 months.  
Whilst regulatory intervention across the financial services industry 
shows no sign of reducing, with the retail distribution review having been 
delivered successfully we are now able to re-deploy staff and resources 
on improving the business. 9 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Our core strategic priorities remain as; the delivery of growth in assets 
and client numbers through the provision of excellent and efficient 
service, research and information at good value.  
We shall also seek to enhance our complementary revenue generating 
services over the coming year.  This will include expanding our range 
of successful multi-manager funds, enhancing our cash strategy, and 
considering other growth opportunities.  At the same time, we will 
remain focused on our core business, delivering improvements and 
enhancements to our service to delight our clients, and continuing to 
enhance our distribution through the addition of new channels.
THE IMPACT OF REGULATION AND GOVERNMENT POLICY
During the year we implemented the remaining requirements of the 
Retail Distribution Review.  From 1 March 2014 clients began paying 
charges for holding investment funds with Hargreaves Lansdown, and in 
return more commission received on those funds was returned to them.  
By 6 April 2016 Hargreaves Lansdown will not retain any commission on 
Vantage fund investments.
This change has been a massive undertaking, requiring the design 
of a new competitive charging structure with few reference points, 
and then the communication of the changes to clients and seamless 
implementation.  After an understandable period of familiarisation and 
questions clients seem to have accepted the changes, recognising the 
value of the Hargreaves Lansdown service and our competitive charges 
and enjoying our (often exclusive) discounts on fund management 
charges from leading houses that we have negotiated.  It was gratifying 
to note that the third quarter of our year, where these changes took 
effect, was a record quarter. In this year of change, client and asset 
retention ratios have remained high at 93.3% and 92.3% respectively. 
Regulation has also substantially affected revenue from cash in the 
form of interest margin.  The reasons for this are twofold.  Risk averse 
governments and regulators requiring greater capitalisation of major 
banks has reduced banks’ demand for cash deposits.  At the same time, 
recent regulatory constraints on the ability to place cash on longer term 
deposit have also been imposed.  There are several potential mitigating 
strategies to partially address these structural changes, focused around 
the technicalities of how monies are classified and held. We expect that in 
the short term our cash margin will reduce slightly but longer term these 
mitigating strategies should offset some of the effect.  If interest rates rise, 
we also expect this to have a positive effect on revenue.
On the plus side, coupled with some welcome ISA changes, revolutionary 
changes to pensions will mean that the UK public now has previously un-
heard-of flexibility of pension saving.  Whilst in the short term we have seen 
a reduction in annuity business of around 50%, this has been counteracted 
by a substantial shift to drawdown arrangements. New assets into pensions 
drawdown arrangements were up 35% on the year. From our perspective, 
the opportunity to help clients make the most of their money for longer is 
beneficial both for investors and for company revenue, as our relationship 
with the client continues for longer under drawdown than an annuity pur-
chase.  As we are a major provider of both independent annuity broking and 
drawdown services in the UK, we are planning a range of enhancements to 
our pension services to reflect the opportunities offered by the new regime.
We also expect some positive regulatory change around the information 
and guidance that we can give to clients.  These changes are currently 
being consulted upon by the Financial Conduct Authority. There seems 
to be an increasing realisation amongst government and regulators 
that providing online and telephone-based information will be the most 
effective primary method for the UK public to be properly informed 
about financial matters in future.  This realisation has been accelerated 
by various promises from the authorities that the public will have access 
to “the information they need”, in particular as part of pensions reform.  
We welcome these changes, which potentially allow us to expand our 
information, research and ability to assist clients without increased liability.
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Hargreaves Lansdown is an ethical company and champion of the retail 
investor.  We campaign tirelessly on behalf of retail investors to improve 
their lot and their wealth.
This year we instigated further price competition within the fund industry 
which has resulted in reduced costs of both active and passive funds for 
investors. The market leading discounts we have negotiated on some of the 
best UK funds will save our clients millions of pounds over the coming years.  
The 2015 financial year should also see the ability for children with child trust 
funds to transfer them to Junior ISAs for the first time, allowing more than 
6 million children to potentially benefit from lower charges, better service 
and returns.  This change is also something we have campaigned for over a 
considerable period and we are delighted to see it come to pass.
Other campaigns have included making it easier and quicker for investors 
to transfer their investments and pensions from one provider to another, 
campaigning to reform the retirement annuity market, which means we 
welcome the Chancellor’s recent announcement of greater freedoms for 
pension investors at retirement, and we are currently challenging HMRC 
on the issue of taxation of loyalty bonuses, the so called “discount tax”. A 
successful challenge would see money being returned to investors.
Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its corporate taxes in full in the 
UK, and we shall continue to seek to be a role model for how financial 
services companies deliver a great service, reputable behaviour and 
profitability in harmony with the UK public.
During the year the company supported Penny Brohn Cancer Care as 
its staff charity, the Youth Adventure Trust and the Wallace and Gromit 
Grand Appeal, amongst others.
CONCLUSION
I would like to thank our clients, shareholders, staff and my fellow directors 
in what has been a very busy year and one of significant change. The support 
and dedication they have shown has delivered another set of great results.
Ian Gorham – Chief Executive    
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Business model
As one of the UK’s largest investment brokers Hargreaves Lansdown aims to make 
profit by providing investors with a competitively priced service for acquiring, managing 
and disposing of a wide range of authorised investments. The service incorporates 
provision of a wealth of information and research into opportunities with potential.
We aim to be the best place in the UK to buy investments directly.
We aim to constantly improve internal efficiencies embracing all proven technology.
At the same time we strive to offer the best research and information across an 
increasing spectrum of investments and markets using Hargreaves Lansdown’s buying 
power to secure the best prices and lowest charges from providers.  
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO
We have been helping clients choose and manage their own investments 
since 1981 and are now the UK’s largest direct to investor ‘investment 
supermarket’ with an annual turnover in excess of £358 million.  We 
provide execution only, advisory services and third party investments for 
individuals and corporates.  We administer £46.9 billion of investments 
in our ISA, SIPP and Investment accounts for 652,000 clients, and have 
arranged investments for over a million clients.
Our success is built around providing our clients a high quality service 
tailored to their needs, and ensuring that our clients have access to 
enough information to support them with making their own investment 
decisions.  Our knowledgeable and helpful staff, technology and 
experience enable us to provide an excellent and convenient service to 
our clients.  
HOW OUR BUSINESS GENERATES VALUE
Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms typically focus on servicing 
the IFA community.  Our investment supermarket services the private 
investor directly. The Hargreaves Lansdown business model allows 
us to offer highly competitive prices to our clients and achieve strong 
profitability.  We aim to create shareholder value by retaining our 
position as the best place in the UK for private investors to buy 
investments. 
We earn the majority of our income based on the value of assets under 
administration (AUA).  This income is based on a percentage of the 
value of AUA and is expressed as basis points (bps).  Income levels vary 
according to the class of investment, the type of account and the amount 
held – some fees are stepped, tiered or capped.  The mix of investments 
and products has an impact on the levels of revenue. 
We aim to grow our business by retaining existing clients, obtaining 
continued new investments from our existing clients and by winning 
new clients.  We do this by providing the best service, best information, 
and best prices. When combined with the security we offer and the 
trust in our brand it provides a compelling reason for clients to choose 
Hargreaves Lansdown.
New business grows our AUA, but there will also be a natural loss of 
business whether from investors using their savings upon retirement, 
death or the effects of competition. However, investors can readily 
switch between different investments without the need to leave our 
investment platform, which means we do not see the outflows of AUA 
that an asset manager would experience when an investor decides 
to sell their fund – the cash or the new investment can remain on our 
investment platform.  We aim to retain as much AUA as possible with 
a constant focus on excellent service and providing a ‘one stop shop’ 
offering a broad range of investments and services.  AUA may also grow 
or be reduced due to the effect of market movements.
WHERE WE ARE BASED AND HOW WE OPERATE
We have been based in Bristol ever since the business was started 
in 1981.  Our clients are located across the UK, with the majority of 
business taking place through our website. 85% of our clients have 
access to our website and all of our clients have access to our telephone 
helpdesk.  For those clients who require advice, and prefer face to face 
advice, we have a team of 101 financial advisers located throughout the 
UK.
Our people, our culture, our technology and IT infrastructure are key to 
our success.  We employ 844 people and are committed to recruiting 
and retaining great people who understand our client-led culture.  We 
have a flat management structure and aim where possible to promote 
from within, building knowledge and loyalty.
WHO OUR CUSTOMERS ARE
Our investment supermarket service is provided directly to the private 
investor in the UK.  Our clients may be investing for their future, saving  11 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Best service, information, prices...
...and life-cycle product range
Drives client recruitment, 
retention and growth in AUA
High levels of asset client retention
Economies of scale, reduction 
in cost ratio
And sticky assets
and quality recurring revenue 
streams
Expanding of proﬁt margin and 
strong cash ﬂows
Maximising 
shareholder
returns
Reinvestment back
Into the service
And better prices
We put the client at the
heart of everything we do
for retirement, investing for children or grandchildren, making the most 
of tax allowances by using ISA and pension allowances, or they may be 
drawing down on their investments after retirement. The majority of 
our clients select and manage their own investments using our Vantage 
platform. Through the Vantage service our clients are able to access 
13,000 different investments including over 2,500 investment funds, 
shares listed on the UK, US, Canadian and European stock exchanges, 
bonds, ETFs and investment trusts, and can also hold cash balances. We 
have 643,000 Vantage clients as at 30 June 2014.
We also provide services such as workplace pension schemes and 
annuity purchase services to private investors through corporate clients.  
We work on behalf of 500 corporate clients, of which 211 are Corporate 
Vantage schemes – the 40,700 individual clients within those schemes 
are included in the number of Vantage clients.
Some of our clients prefer to have an investment manager looking after 
their investments for them, and they can use our Portfolio Management 
Service (PMS).  We have 14,865 PMS clients. 
Read more on these and the other services we provide on pages 2 to 3.
HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT
Everyone these days talks about excellent service.  It is easy to talk 
about it, but it takes experience and commitment to actually deliver it.  
Our service is joined up – one website, one login, one conversation, one 
platform offering a huge range of investments – a one stop shop.  There 
is more we can do to keep improving, but we are in a strong position 
when it comes to delivering great service as evidenced by recent awards 
from Which? and The Platforum.
A founding principle of our business is ‘simplicity’ – the financial services 
industry is weighed down with complexity, yet when we deal directly 
with self-directed investors we make it simple for them.  
We use our scale and position in the market to negotiate favourable 
discounts for our clients, we lobby for better savings products, and we 
put the client at the heart of everything that we do.
Most changes and opportunities within our business require an element 
of systems or web development.  We own, control and develop our 
own IT systems.  We have our own proprietary systems that are not 
sold to others in the industry, and we have in-house development 
knowledge and expertise.  This makes us nimble and quick to respond to 
opportunities.  Our business is not capital intensive, but we employ 114 
IT staff to maintain, develop and operate our IT infrastructure, website 
and systems. The long-term sustainability of our IT platform continues to 
be a key strategic priority for us.
HOW OUR BUSINESS IS SUSTAINABLE
We have a consistent track record of growing AUA, active clients, 
revenue, profits, EPS and dividends.  We believe this is because we have 
the right distribution channel, offer the right service and products, and 
operate with the right cost structure.  Going forward we believe that 
market and demographic trends continue to be favourable.
A large proportion of AUA (69%) are “sticky”, by this we mean that they 
are held within tax wrappers which makes investors less likely to spend
them. Our excellent service standards and breadth of service means that
we have very high rates of asset and client retention (92.3% and 93.3%
respectively).  As a result, we attract high quality recurring revenue streams.
We utilise technology to ensure that our service is efficient.  The 
business operations are very scalable, and as it continues to grow we 
benefit from economies of scale and increasing cost efficiency.
To ensure that the business continues to thrive, we reinvest some of the 
increased profits back into the business to provide improved services, 
better functionality and better prices.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategic priorities and progress
How are we doing? 
OUR 2014 PRIORITIES PROGRESS AGAINST OUR OBJECTIVES
ATTRACT 
AND RETAIN 
CLIENTS 
> EXCELLENT 
SERVICE
Service improvements including stockbroking initiatives, 
simple investing and wider research coverage to 
enhance the client experience.
94.4% of clients responding to an August 2014 survey 
rated our service as good, very good or excellent. 
Live price feeds for share dealing launched.
iPad app was launched in December 2013. 
In 2014 we maintained an excellent client retention rate of 
93.3%.
Better deals on investment funds to reduce the total 
expense ratio for clients.
We secured great discounts on new “unbundled” funds.
Campaign on issues which affect our clients. The government has indicated that Child Trust Funds 
should be transferable into a Junior ISA as from April 2015.
GENERATE 
PROFITABLE 
GROWTH 
> ASSET 
GATHERING
Progress the Investment Supermarket, Pensions and 
Digital initiatives. 
In 2014, assets under administration (AUA) increased by 
£10.5 billion.  The asset retention rate remained very high 
at 92.3%. 
Corporate Vantage service gained an additional 44 
corporate clients during the year with AUA as at 30 June 
2014 of £984 million (2013: £618 million).
Continued focus and refinement of digital marketing 
channels.
Value of transfers into Vantage up 24% on last year. 
Regular contributions up 25% year-on-year.
Implementation of RDR. RDR operational and pricing changes implemented during 
the year.
INCREASE 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE 
> EFFICIENCY 
IMPROVEMENTS
Continued investment into IT and a focus on mobile and 
digital technologies.
The proportion of Vantage clients who manage their 
investments online has increased with 92% of share 
dealing in Vantage carried out online (2013: 90%). 85% of 
our clients have registered for online access (2013: 81%). 
We have invested in our IT development capacity and 
initiatives to future proof our systems; principally through 
the recruitment of additional IT development staff.  First 
phase of electronic re-registration implemented.
Focus on industry automation improvements, including 
electronic re-registration.
Cost ratio (costs as a proportion of AUA) reduced by 
4.4bps to 20.1bps.
SATISFYING 
CAREERS FOR 
STAFF 
> RECRUIT, 
DEVELOP 
AND RETAIN 
QUALITY STAFF
Continue to develop the apprentice program for financial 
practitioners.
Assisted 171 staff across the company in taking 
professional exams. 
Enhanced certain teams, including the Compliance and Risk 
teams.
Continue to offer share-based incentives to staff where 
feasible, encourage staff share ownership.
Continued use of share incentives for key staff and SAYE 
scheme for all staff. 83.2% of eligible staff are in one or 
more SAYE schemes.
Undertook first employee survey, and started putting key 
actions in place. 13 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
We have enhanced our mobile and tablet apps, added 144,000 new clients to our service, 
transacted 6.3 million fund trades and 3.0 million share trades, implemented significant 
regulatory changes in the platform part of our business. This page summarises our progress
against the priorities we set last year, and sets out our priorities for the year ahead.
Service improvements, in particular cash and 
pension services.
Continue to campaign on issues which affect our 
clients, be a force for good within the industry.
Focus on opportunities in the pensions market 
arising from 2014 budget.
Identify and execute opportunities for additional 
revenues within the Vantage service.
Focus on industry automation improvements, 
including further automation of transfer business.
Continued investment into IT to ensure that 
the IT platform remains scalable and efficient to 
support future growth.
Build on the actions arising from the 2014 
employee survey.
Increase the focus on talent management, 
building from the bottom-up to strengthen future 
management teams and better help staff achieve 
their ambitions.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OUR 2015 PRIORITIES
2014 652
2014 85
2014
2014
6.4
368
2014
2014
2014
2014
92
71.3
46.9
794
2013 507
2013 81
2013
2013
5.1
370
2013
2013
2013
2013
94
71.5
36.4
731
2012 432
2012 78
2012
2012
3.2
338
2012
2012
2012
2012
94
67.8
26.3
657
2011 386
2011 74
2011
2011
3.5
299
2011
2011
2011
2011
92
64.7
24.6
643
2010 336
2010 71
2010
2010
3.3
234
2010
2010
2010
2010
90
58.0
17.5
628
No. of active clients ('000)
Proportion of online clients (%)
Net new business (£bn)
Net revenue per employee (£’000) 
Vantage asset retention (%)
Net operating profit margin (%)
Assets under administration (£bn)
Average number of staff
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Business review
It has been a year of unprecedented levels of regulatory change, but our focus 
has remained on providing our clients with excellent service and value, making 
Hargreaves Lansdown a natural choice for investors. Record levels of organic growth 
from new business and new clients mean that we now look after a record 
£46.9 billion of AUA on behalf of our clients. 
ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION (AUA) AND NEW BUSINESS INFLOWS
During the year the value of total AUA has increased by 29%. The Group achieved net new business inflows of £6.4 billion, and the positive impact of 
the rise in investment markets and other growth factors increased client assets by a further £4.1 billion. Total AUA can be broken down as follows:
Net new business in the Vantage SIPP , ISA and other Vantage nominee 
accounts was respectively £2.1 billion, £2.2 billion and £1.8 billion (2013: 
£1.8 billion, £1.9 billion, £1.1 billion), in total £6.1 billion (2013: £4.8 billion). 
Net new business generated within PMS was also strong at £304 million 
(2013: £271 million). The increase was assisted by an increase in the 
number of financial advisers employed by the Group this year. 
Investment markets improved during the year, with the average month-
end level of the FTSE All-Share index being 11.9% higher compared to FY 
2013, contributing to market growth of £4.0 billion in Vantage AUA and 
£0.2 billion in PMS.
The second half of the year is our busiest as the tax year-end is an important 
driver of new business.  This year £3.60 billion of net new business came 
in the second half versus £3.45 billion for the prior year comparative. The 
comparative was boosted by the introduction of a loyalty bonus on Vantage 
SIPP accounts, the requirement to offer in-specie transfer of client assets 
following phase 1 of RDR and significantly increasing stock markets. This 
year UK stock markets have largely been flat in the second half and the 
only real fresh impetus has come from the TSB IPO and Woodford fund 
launches both of which took place in June 2014 and resulted in c£293m 
of new business. Achieving such a strong net new business figure, in a 
period when we have communicated and implemented the significant client 
tariff changes resulting from the Retail Distribution Review, has been very 
pleasing and testament to the value our clients place on our services.
Cash deposit rates on offer from banks have remained at historically 
low levels, partly as a result of the government’s “Funding for Lending” 
scheme. Those seeking a higher return have turned to alternative 
investment options such as funds and shares, which offer higher yields 
and potential capital growth. This factor has spurred clients to divert more 
of their savings into investments in Vantage.
More clients are investing through Hargreaves Lansdown than ever 
before. In total we now administer investments for 652,000 clients 
(2013: 507,000, +29%).
DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE
The Group is organised into three core operating divisions, based around 
WE NOW ADMINISTER 
£46.9 BILLION OF 
INVESTMENTS ON 
BEHALF OF OUR 
CLIENTS.
£6.4 BILLION TOTAL 
NET NEW BUSINESS.
At 30 June 
2014 
At 30 June 
2013 
% 
movement
(£’bn) (£’bn)
Vantage Assets Under Administration (AUA) 44.2 34.2 +29%
Assets Under Administration and 
Management (AUM)
- Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 2.6 2.1 +24%
- Multi-manager funds held outside of PMS 1.9 1.2 +58%
AUM Total 4.5 3.3 +36%
Less: 
Multi-manager funds (AUM) included in 
Vantage AUA (1.9) (1.2) +58%
Total Assets Under Administration 46.9 36.4 +29% 15 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
the products and services described on page 3:
- Vantage: represents 77% of Group operating profit.  
- Discretionary and Managed: represents 15% of Group operating profit. 
- Third Party and Other services: represents 8% of Group operating profit.
VANTAGE
As highlighted in the Chief Executive’s statement, during the year we 
implemented the remaining requirements of the RDR. As a consequence 
the total revenue earned from investment funds held by clients 
significantly increased as a new platform fee was introduced ranging from 
45bps down to nil depending on the value of funds held by clients in their 
various accounts. At the same time commission income is being received 
from the fund management groups on funds purchased by clients before 
the RDR implementation date. Where we still receive commission on 
these pre RDR or “legacy funds” the vast majority is now passed back to 
our clients in the form of a significantly higher loyalty bonus. In order to 
compare performance year-on-year it is therefore necessary to look at net 
revenue which is total revenue less the loyalty bonus.
The Vantage division increased its net revenues by £16.7 million or 8%, 
from £204.3 million to £221.0 million. Positive growth factors were the 
29% growth in AUA this year, the impact of a full year’s income on assets 
gathered during the previous year and the significantly higher share 
dealing volumes which improved stockbroking commission by £12.3m. 
Offsetting these growth factors was, as expected, a further decline in 
interest on client money which fell from £58.7 million to £33.7 million as 
the interest rate margin declined significantly.
The £6.1 billion growth in AUA resulting from net new business inflows, 
or ‘organic growth’, represented 18% this year (2013: 20%). 
• The increase in AUA derived from stock market and other growth 
factors was 12% (2013: 19%). The combined impact of organic growth 
and market growth resulted in SIPP AUA growing by 29%, ISA by 26% 
and the Fund and Share account by 35%. 
• Included within the Fund and Share account is a significant holding 
in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares which increased in value by 31% 
during the year. Excluding Hargreaves Lansdown shares, the growth in 
Fund and Share AUA was 37%. 
• As at 30 June 2014, the value of the Vantage ISA was £17.1 billion (30 
June 2013: £13.6 billion), the Vantage SIPP was £13.4 billion (30 June 
2013: £10.4 billion) and the Vantage Fund and Share Account was 
£13.8 billion (30 June 2013: £10.2 billion).
During the year the number of active Vantage clients increased by 
143,000 to 643,000, including a total of 16,000 new Corporate Vantage 
scheme members, taking the total Corporate Vantage members to 
42,000 (2013: 26,000). We now administer 192,000 SIPP accounts, 
462,000 ISA accounts and 243,000 Fund and Share accounts on behalf 
of our clients.
28% more clients contributed to their SIPP than in the year to 30 June 
2013, with the average new contribution into a Vantage SIPP this year 
reducing by 6% to £8,275. There was also a 41% increase to the number 
of clients subscribing to their Vantage Stocks and Shares ISA with the 
average subscription decreasing by 3% to £8,178.  
2014 3.0 2014 92
2013 1.9 2013 90
2012 1.5 2012 87
2011 1.3 2011 83
2010 1.1 2010 79
Share dealing volumes (m) Share dealing (% online)
58% GROWTH IN 
SHARE DEAL VOLUMES
92% OF VANTAGE 
SHARE DEALS ARE 
DEALT ONLINE
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TOTAL VANTAGE 
AUA £44.2BN 
(2013 £34.2BN)
+35%
£13.8bn
(2013 £10.2bn)
+29%  
£13.4bn
(2013 £10.4bn)
+ 26%
£17.1bn
(2013 £13.6bn)
 Fund & Share Account
 ISA 
 SIPP
VANTAGE 
AUA 2014 16  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Clients continued to transfer SIPP and ISA investments held elsewhere 
into our Vantage service. The value of transfers in increased this year by 
a significant 24%. More clients sought to consolidate their investments 
and benefit from the advantages of having them all held in one place 
with a company they trust.
Clients have decreased their cash weightings during the period as 
investor sentiment improved and clients were prepared to take on more 
risk given the low interest rates available on cash. The composition of 
assets across the whole of Vantage at 30 June 2014 was 9% cash (30 
June 2013: 10%), 36% stocks and shares (30 June 2013: 34%), and 55% 
investment funds (30 June 2013: 56%).
 
A number of our clients make regular contributions into their ISA, SIPP 
or Fund and Share accounts.  The ‘Regular Savers’ service has been 
growing steadily since being introduced 11 years ago, and as at 30 June 
2014 we had 81,000 clients (2013: 66,000) saving a total of £28 million 
each month by way of direct debit instruction. Our Corporate Vantage 
service has the potential to significantly increase the value of regular 
monthly savings and Corporate Vantage clients currently subscribe an 
additional £12.5 million each month.
We handled over 9 million dealing instructions on behalf of 652,000 
clients.  Our website (www.hl.co.uk) and apps were visited 73 million 
times, an increase of 65% on the previous year.  
Vantage clients transacted 6.3 million fund deals (2013: 5.1 million) and 
3.0 million share deals in the year (2013: 1.9 million). No charge is made 
to our clients for dealing in investment funds and therefore fund dealing 
does not generate revenues. The increased volume of share dealing 
resulted in an increase in stockbroking commission of £12.4m to a total 
of £39.0 million.
DISCRETIONARY AND MANAGED
The Discretionary division earns recurring income on underlying 
investments held in the Group’s Portfolio Management Service (PMS), 
and on investments in the Group’s multi-manager funds.  Net revenue 
in the Discretionary division increased by 32% from £34.0 million 
to £44.9 million. The growth in net new business helped grow initial 
charges and the increase in AUA helped to increase management fees 
and ongoing advice charges. In addition following the implementation 
of RDR from 1 March 2014, the annual management fee charged on the 
HL Multi-Manager funds of 0.75% has been retained wholly within the 
discretionary division. Previously under the legacy fund class charged 
at 1.00% there would have been a 0.5% renewal commission paid into 
Vantage where Vantage clients held the fund. The net impact is an 
effective increase in revenue to the discretionary division.    
 
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves Lansdown through its own 
range of multi-manager funds and PMS increased by  39% to £4.6 billion as 
at 30 June 2014 (2013: £3.3 billion).  The growth in assets is due to net new 
business of £0.9 billion combined with a market increase of £0.4 billion.
Our advisory service generates initial and ongoing advice fees on assets 
introduced into PMS. The Group has increased the number of financial 
advisers during the year from 92 as at 30 June 2013 to 101 as at 30 June 
2014. We aim to capture more of the advised market, particularly as many 
Independent Financial Advisers and high street banks continue to exit this 
market on the back of regulatory rules such as the Retail Distribution Review. 
Increased adviser numbers has helped drive a 12% increase in net new 
business introduced into PMS during the year. Net new business amounted 
to £304 million (2013: £271m).  The proportion of PMS assets invested in 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds as at 30 June 2014 was 90% 
(2013: 89%).
THIRD PARTY AND OTHER SERVICES
Third party and other services net revenues fell 16% during the year, 
from £30.9 million to £26.0 million.
The key reason for the decline has been the reduction in annuity 
volumes brokered following pension reforms introduced in the March 
2014 budget and hence the commission income received. The reforms 
have introduced greater flexibility in terms of how people access their 
pension savings and as a result the demand for annuities has declined. 
Annuity income has fallen from £7.7m in 2013 to £4.7m this year. 
The total revenues from Hargreaves Lansdown Currency and Markets 
(CFDs, spread betting and currency services) were up £0.5m on last year 
as increased numbers of clients utilise these additional services, driving 
transactional volumes higher.  
Revenue from our Funds Library service remained the same at £6.0 
million; however, the service has experienced underlying growth in client 
numbers and recurring revenues during the year but did not get a repeat 
of the one-off development revenues achieved in the previous year. 
Third party business has been in decline over recent years. Although the 
Group continues to act as an intermediary for some third party pension 
schemes there is a focus on the Corporate Vantage service which 
together with regulatory changes means that we expect that third party 
business will continue to decline. 
IT AND SYSTEMS
The initiative to continually develop and improve our dedicated and 
bespoke in-house systems has continued throughout the year with 
a focus on replacement and enhancement of hardware and systems 
in order to increase the long term sustainability and capacity of our 
key administration system.  From the client’s perspective we have 
introduced a number of significant improvements to our service, such 
as the introduction of Live Prices to our equity trading functionality 
and an upgrade to the on-line security infrastructure.  Such work has 
run alongside significant systems development in order to implement 
regulatory changes and the delivery of a number of high quality business 
as usual initiatives.  
We have continued to recruit high quality IT staff to support our 
investment in technology. Constantly improving our technical 
architecture remains key to our success. 17 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Market review
Regulation, competition and markets
The Chief Executive has highlighted changes to the regulatory landscape; 
in particular the FCA’s Retail Distribution Review (RDR) which we 
highlighted last year has now been implemented. The fast pace of 
regulatory change looks set to continue in the next 12 months. As noted 
within the Financial Review, BASEL 3 and CRD 4 regulatory changes 
affecting banks and new FCA regulations (contained within the FCA’s 
publication CP14/09) are examples of regulation that will impact our 
business and will require our focus to produce a good outcome for 
our clients.  We believe Hargreaves Lansdown’s experience, business 
model and financial position will enable us to accommodate changes 
without harmful effect on long-term profitability.  During the history of 
Hargreaves Lansdown there have been various market factors which, 
when initially revealed, have created conjecture about profitability and 
our responses resulted in increased volumes of business which more 
than compensated for any reduction in margin they brought.  
The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown operates are highly 
fragmented. Competitors include IFAs, execution-only brokers, banks, 
building societies, life assurers, fund supermarkets and certain wrap 
platforms.  Given the success of our business, direct competition is 
predicted to increase; however, significant barriers to entry exist.  We 
have 32 years’ experience and have developed the IT systems and 
infrastructure in-house, both to facilitate efficient administration and 
more specifically to fulfil clients’ needs of which we have unparalleled 
knowledge. Our direct postal marketing reach is in excess of 2.0 million 
people, a contact list which would be difficult to compile today, and 
we have ensured that we have grasped the opportunities offered by 
digital marketing, creating a powerful distribution network. Given our 
brand reputation and scale, if increased competition leads to increased 
awareness and growth in our markets we see this as positive.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s market share has increased in the majority of 
relevant markets that figures are available for. For example, for the year 
to 5 April 2014, HMRC figures show that 10.9% of all stocks and shares 
ISA subscriptions were made via Hargreaves Lansdown. This compares 
to 8.4% for the year to 5 April 2013. At 30 June 2014 our share of the 
execution only stockbroking market in the UK had risen to 22.5%, 
compared to 18.8% at the end of the previous year (source: Compeer). 
In addition, transfers of client assets from competitor companies to 
Hargreaves Lansdown increased by 5%. Hargreaves Lansdown is a net 
recipient of assets from the vast majority of other companies in the 
market every year. Our own asset retention, however, remains extremely 
strong, at 92.3% of all assets under administration. This is testament to 
our excellent service. 
We must not be complacent, as there are many companies who would 
like to emulate the success of Hargreaves Lansdown. However, for now 
our service remains unparalleled and we must work hard to maintain our 
competitive advantage.
ISAs
The ISA market continues to grow. HMRC figures published in August 
2014 show that new subscriptions into stocks and shares ISAs have 
grown by more than 18% to £18.4 billion in the last three tax years, 
and over £241 billion is now held within stocks and shares ISAs. In the 
tax year ended 5 April 2014 3.0 million adults contributed into a stocks 
and shares ISA with the average subscription being £6,163. Hargreaves 
Lansdown saw 252,000 adult clients contributing an average of £8,178. 
Each year our excellent customer service results in net transfers of client 
assets from other ISA providers. This year 40,846 clients transferred 
£1.03 billion of investments to us. With continued low interest rates, 
stocks and shares ISAs remain attractive. The increase in the ISA 
allowance from £11,880 to the new NISA allowance of £15,000 will 
serve to increase the size of the ISA market.
The launch of the Junior ISA in November 2011 has widened the ISA 
market with the ability to currently save up to £4,000 for each child per 
annum.  We successfully lobbied the Treasury to permit transfers from 
Child Trust Funds (CTFs) to Junior ISAs and the Government following 
a period of consultation has agreed that this will probably commence 
from April 2015. Over six million children in the UK currently have CTFs 
with circa £4.8 billion pounds invested. Given the superiority of Junior 
ISAs compared to CTFs this should provide us with an opportunity to 
boost new business and to acquire new young clients who will hopefully 
become long-term adult clients too.
PENSIONS/SIPPS
The SIPP market is estimated to have assets under administration of 
£150 billion. As at 30 June 2014 our Vantage and PMS SIPP together 
held £14.0 billion, representing 9.3% of this current market.
Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is currently being phased in and 
by 2017 all employers will have to auto-enrol eligible staff into a 
suitable workplace pension and pay contributions on their behalf. 
Escalating minimum contributions have been set. By 1 October 2018 
the minimum contribution will be 9% of which the employer will have 
to pay a minimum of 4%. The scheme has been introduced principally 
to get UK citizens to take greater responsibility for their financial well-
being in retirement. For many years the number of people paying into 
occupational pensions has been in decline and this scheme should 
reverse this trend. Our Corporate Vantage service seeks to take 
advantage and existing schemes we administer will also benefit. The 
engagement of many for the first time should also be to the benefit of 
the industry as a whole and in particular to us as a trusted brand and 
respected company.
In future people will be less able to rely on state assistance or defined 
benefit pension provision. As a result there is an increasing need for 
people to make their own pension provision. 
The gap between current saving and the amount needed to adequately 
fund retirement is being partially addressed through auto-enrolment. In 
addition the increased flexibility being introduced to pensions following 
the budget announcements in March 2014 should make them a more 
popular investment.  Combined, these two factors should provide the 
stimulus for long-term growth in the pension market. The current market 
is estimated at around £2.5 trillion and defined contribution schemes 
such as our SIPP are set to grow rapidly over the next few years. We see 
this as a key growth market.
The UK has the largest savings gap in Europe. The importance of saving has 
never been greater and consequently the tax breaks on offer for children 
in the form of a SIPP or Junior ISA are becoming increasingly popular too. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Our performance over the year - key indicators 
We use a range of indicators in order to assess performance. We consider the following
measures to be the key financial, operational and commercial indicators when looking 
at the overall performance of the Group. We refer to these measures throughout the 
Strategic Report. 
A key indicator of success for the Group is the extent to which we have 
increased total assets under administration (AUA) during the period.  
This involves encouraging existing clients to entrust us with more of 
their savings through the provision of quality service, information and 
pricing, whilst also attracting new clients through our various marketing 
initiatives.  In 2014 the 29% growth in value of total AUA (2013: 38%) 
was attributable to strong new business volumes, a beneficial market 
increase, and maintaining very high client and asset retention rates 
and client satisfaction scores. 
Analysis of our AUA suggests that the FTSE All-Share index is a reasonable 
benchmark to use for the market and so any change in this index can form 
a useful comparison against the growth in AUA.  The FTSE All-Share index 
increased by 9.4% during the year ended 30 June 2014 and on average the 
FTSE All-Share index has been 11.6% higher than during the 2013 financial 
year. The positive effect of the market and the impact this had on investor 
confidence has in part helped to drive new business volumes. 
The importance of AUA is that they produce a recurring revenue stream 
consisting of renewal commission, platform fees, management fees and 
interest.  The percentage of recurring net revenue attributable to these 
‘quality earnings’ fell slightly from 78% in 2013 to 76% in 2014. The value 
of recurring net revenues increased by 5% from £209.8 million to £220.8 
million.  Not all of our AUA generates recurring revenue, so when looking 
at the growth in total AUA, it is relevant to consider another indicator, the 
proportion of assets earning recurring revenue. This has decreased 
slightly from 83% in 2013 to 82% in 2014. 
The number of active clients acts as an indicator of how successful the 
Group has been at adding to its client bank. In 2014, the number has 
increased by 29% (2013: 17%) and as at 30 June 2014 stood at 652,000. 
The net operating profit margin decreased from 71.5% to 71.3%.  Efficient 
and scalable operations and robust control of costs have continued, and we 
saw a further improvement to the cost ratio during FY 2014 but the decline 
in interest revenue meant overall the margin fell slightly.  We consider the 
diluted earnings per share figure to be the most appropriate measure of 
financial performance.  This increased by 9% in the year to 34.2 pence.
Strategy/objectives Performance indicator 2014 2013 +/-
Growing the value of assets under 
administration and management
Growth in AUA (1) £46.9bn £36.4bn +29%
Vs. FTSE All-Share index (2) 3600.19 3289.71 +9%
Excellent client service and client retention Client satisfaction survey (3) 94.4% 96% -1.6pts
Client retention rate (4) 93.3% 94.5% -1.2pts
High earnings quality Percentage of recurring net revenue (5) 76% 78% -2pts
Proportion of assets earning recurring revenue (6) 82% 83% -1pt
Strong organic growth - asset gathering 
and client recruitment
Number of active clients (7) 652,000 507,000 +29%
Net new Vantage business inflows (8) £6.1bn £4.8bn +27%
Total net new business inflows (8) £6.4bn £5.1bn +25%
Asset retention rate (9) 92.3% 93.6% -1.3pts
Maintaining tight cost control and 
operating efficiency
Net operating profit margin (on net revenue) (10) 71.3% 71.5% -0.2pts
Group cost ratio (11) 20.1bps 24.5bps -4.4bps
Shareholder value and superior financial 
performance
Diluted earnings per share (12) 34.2p 31.4p +9%
1. The value of all assets under administration in Vantage and PMS plus assets held by third parties in the HL Multi-Manager Funds.
2. The closing values as at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013, sourced from ProQuote
3. Based on Aug 2014 & May 2013 client surveys of 9,371 & 13,833 respondents, where service was voted as good, very good or excellent.
4. Based on the monthly lost clients as a percentage of the opening months total clients and averaging for the year.
5. Total value of renewal commission (after deducting loyalty bonuses), management fees, platform fees and interest earned on client money, as a percentage of total revenue.
6. Percentage of assets either held in an account which generates a fixed management fee or held in an account which generates management fees, renewal commission or interest proportionate to the value of assets held.
7. Unique number of clients holding at least one PMS or Vantage account with a value over £100 at the year-end.
8. Net new business inflows represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less withdrawals and assets transferred out (refer to the Business review section on page 16 for more information on net new business inflows). 
9. Based on the monthly lost AUA as a percentage of the opening months AUA and averaging for the year.
10. Net operating profit (profit before investment gains) divided by net revenue after deducting loyalty bonus and commission payments.
11. Operating costs (excluding loyalty bonus) divided by the average of the opening and closing level of total AUA. (100bps = 1%)
12. Based upon earnings and the weighted average fully diluted share capital. 19 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Financial Review 
Despite a year of significant regulatory change, we have maintained our track record 
of growth and have again achieved record financial results for the Group.  
The Group achieved net revenues of £291.9m, an 8% increase, driven 
primarily by increased levels of AUA and share dealing commission.
Continued robust control of costs and scalable operations has 
contributed to maintain a high net operating profit margin (on net 
revenue) which fell slightly to 71.3% (FY 2013: 71.5%). 
The effective tax rate for the Group this year was 22.4% (FY 2013: 
23.7%).  The 8% increase in operating profit, together with a lower rate 
of corporation tax, combined to increase the diluted earnings per share 
from 31.4 pence to 34.2 pence per share.
The Business review on pages 14 to 16 contains information about the 
performance of the Group, in particular further information about Assets 
Under Administration (AUA), new business inflows and the performance 
of the three divisions – Vantage, Discretionary & Managed, and Third 
Party & Other services and the markets they operate in.
Year ended
30 June 2014
£’million
Year ended
30 June 2013
£’milion
% movement
Revenue 358.4 292.4 +23%
Commission payable / loyalty bonus (66.5) (23.2) +187%
Net revenue 291.9 269.2 +8%
Other operating costs (83.1) (77.2) +8%
Total FSCS levy (0.8) 0.5
Operating profit 208.0 192.5 +8%
Non-operating income 1.8 2.7 -33%
Profit before taxation 209.8 195.2 +7%
Taxation (47.1) (46.2) +2%
Profit after taxation 162.7 149.0 +9%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 34.5 31.7 +9%
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 34.2 31.4 +9%
Financial performance
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tracey Taylor –
Chief Financial 
Officer
TOTAL REVENUE
As highlighted on page 15 of the Business Review, following the 
implementation of the RDR we now focus on the net revenue of the Group 
as this gives a better indication of the year-on-year performance. Total net 
revenue was up 8% for the year as the group benefitted from record highs 
of AUA, net new business, new active clients and transaction volumes. 
Vantage net revenue increased by 8% but was held back by the reduction 
in interest revenue resulting from lower interest margins. The increase in 
other revenue streams excluding interest revenue was 29%, which shows 
that the underlying performance of the division is strong but was held 
back by the interest rate margin which is a factor largely outside of our 
control. The Discretionary division only has a negligible amount of interest 
revenue and hence the growth in AUA and net new business can clearly  20  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
be seen as drivers of the strong 32% growth in revenue. Third party and 
other services net revenue fell principally as we focus less on third party 
business and because of the drop off in annuity commission following 
pension reforms introduced in the March 2014 budget. Other services such 
as foreign currency and Funds Library continue to show underlying growth 
and we would expect this to continue.
Growing the value of AUA was a key factor in driving net revenue up by 8%. 
Average levels of AUA were up by 36% in Vantage. The assets held in 
Vantage can be split between investment funds, shares and other stock, 
and cash. The net revenue margin earned on each asset class varies. 
Investment funds on average represented 54% of Vantage AUA and the 
net revenue margin earned was 56 bps (2013: 62bps). The reduction 
related to the new RDR pricing implemented in March 2014 which 
represented a conscious investment by Hargreaves Lansdown to make 
investing in funds cheaper for our clients. This is in accordance with our 
long-term strategy of lowering the cost of investing for our clients over 
time which in turn will help retain existing and attract new clients and 
assets. The pre-RDR net margin on funds was 60bps while post RDR it was 
49bps. Looking ahead the post RDR net revenue margin will trend down 
as we move through the transition phase of RDR until April 2016 when any 
renewal commissions still received from fund management groups relating 
to pre-RDR funds will be passed on fully to clients. From this point, barring 
any other changes, we would expect the net revenue margin earned on 
investment funds to be c44bps. 
Shares on average represented 37% of Vantage AUA. The revenue margin 
on shares and other stock was 35bps (2013: 37bps). The increase in share 
dealing volumes helps to improve the margin but counteracting that are 
the caps in place in the SIPP and Stocks and Share ISA accounts, which 
limit the ability to charge fees on shares once holdings are above £44,444 
in the SIPP and £10,000 in the ISA. Over time as clients grow their 
portfolio of shares this could cause a slight dilution to the margin.
Cash on average represented 9% of Vantage AUA. As mentioned above, 
as expected, the interest revenue margin earned on cash balances has 
fallen significantly during the year from an average of 185bps in FY2013 to 
an average of 91bps in FY2014.  We start the 2015 financial year with an 
interest revenue margin for July 2014 of 70 bps.
In the short term the interest revenue margin is likely to continue to reduce 
as interest rates attainable from banks fall further, largely as a result of 
BASEL 3 and CRD 4 regulatory changes affecting banks and new FCA 
regulations which effectively restrict the use of term deposits to durations 
of no more than 30 days.  There is an alternative treatment available for 
client money held in the SIPP , which equates to 51% of total client money, 
such that term deposits may still be used.  Work is progressing to achieve 
this treatment which will mitigate some of the downward pressure on the 
interest revenue margin.  In addition we are exploring other options available 
to us that will enable us to achieve a better return on cash balances and offer 
improved cash services to our clients.  Following a period of unprecedented 
low interest rates in the UK, sentiment suggests that within the next 12 
months the Bank of England may start to increase interest rates.  Such a 
move should have a positive effect on the interest revenue margin.   
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS 
Total operating costs are made up of operating costs which are under our 
control plus the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) costs 
that are outside our control.  
 
Commission payable is primarily the portion of renewal income which 
the Group receives on investment funds held in Vantage which is rebated 
to clients as a ‘loyalty bonus’. This rebate was paid to clients throughout 
the year but following the implementation of the RDR in March the 
amounts paid back to clients were significantly increased to effectively 
compensate them for the introduction of a new platform fee. 
Other than commission payable, staff costs remain our largest expense. 
The number of staff on a full-time equivalent basis (including directors) 
at 30 June 2014 was 844, and the average number of staff during the 
year was 794, an increase of 9%.  The increase in staff numbers resulted 
from increased investment in IT and web services, along with recruitment 
Net revenue Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’million
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’million
%  
movement
Vantage 221.0 204.3 +8%
Discretionary 44.9 34.0 +32%
Third Party and 
Other services 26.0 30.9 -16%
Total net revenue 291.9 269.2 +8%
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’million
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£’million
% 
movement
Commission payable / 
loyalty bonus
66.5 23.2 +187%
Other operating costs:
Staff costs 51.3 50.3 +2%
Marketing and 
distribution costs 11.3 11.0 +3%
Office running costs 4.2 3.8 +11%
Depreciation, amortisation 
& financial costs 3.0 2.0 +50%
Other costs 13.3 10.1 +32%
Other operating costs 83.1 77.2 +8%
Total FSCS levy 0.8 (0.5) +160%
Total operating costs 150.4 99.9 +51% 21 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
of additional financial advisors and administrative staff to deal with the 
growing volume of account openings, transfers and helpdesk calls. 
Group marketing and distribution spend increased by 3%, from £11.0 
million to £11.3 million and includes the costs of printing and sending 
information and newsletters to existing and potential clients, media 
advertising, online marketing and client incentives. In the first half of the 
year only £4.5 million had been incurred which was 20% down on the 
prior year but in the second half spend increased to £6.8 million reflecting 
the significant increase in marketing activity and client communication; 
we communicated to all of our clients about the impact of the RDR and 
the new pricing tariffs, about the discounts that we had negotiated on 
many popular funds, about various IPOs including TSB, and the biggest 
fund launch for some years in the Woodford Equity Income Fund.  A key 
strategic focus for the business is our use of mobile and digital media. 
We increasingly invest in paid search traffic, cost per click relationships, 
HLTV and smart phone and tablet apps. These have also contributed to 
additional cost this year but have served to reinforce our strength in digital 
media which helps drive client and asset recruitment. 
Depreciation has increased significantly following the increase in capital 
expenditure seen last year and this year. 
Other costs which include dealing costs, insurance, computer 
maintenance, external administration charges and irrecoverable VAT 
increased by £3.2 million or 32%.  These increases are a result of the 
increased size and scale of the business and enhancement to the 
services we have provided.
FSCS LEVY
Costs relating to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (“FSCS”) 
are beyond our control.  The FSCS is the compensation fund of last resort 
for customers of authorised financial services firms.  All authorised firms 
are required to contribute to the running of the scheme and the cost of 
compensation payments.  Contributions to the scheme are proportional 
to the amount of eligible income of a firm, rather than its risk profile or 
track record of running a compliant service.   As such, as a large business 
we usually make a significant contribution to the cost of compensation on 
investments we have never recommended or been involved with.  FSCS 
costs increased from a £0.5 million credit to a £0.8 million charge this year. 
Last year we made a successful challenge to the basis of calculation of the 
levy, resulting in a refund of part of the FSCS levy relating to earlier years.  
TAXATION
The charge for taxation increased in line with higher profits to £47.1 million 
from £46.2 million. The effective tax rate fell from 23.7% in 2013 to 22.4% 
in the current period due to the standard UK corporation tax rate falling 
from 24% to 21% since the start of the prior period, the 2014 applicable 
HL IPAD APP LAUNCHED
The Group is organised 
into three core operating 
divisions, based around 
the products and services 
described on pages 2 
and 3.
Divisional Group 
operating profit
THIRD PARTY AND 
OTHER SERVICES
VANTAGE
DISCRETIONARY AND 
MANAGED
77%
15% 8%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
rate being 22.5% (2013: 23.75%). In total, taxation of £3.9 million has also 
been credited directly to equity and relates to share-based payments.  
The Group’s policy on corporate taxes is to pay the right amount of tax at 
the right time.  We aim to be transparent in our activities; we prefer not 
to engage in aggressive, artificial or sophisticated tax planning activities, 
and we actively engage with the UK tax authorities both on corporate 
taxes and tax issues affecting our clients.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
The diluted EPS increased by 9% from 31.4 pence to 34.2 pence. EPS 
is calculated as the earnings for the year divided by the total weighted 
average fully diluted number of shares, including those held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”).  Further information on the EBT 
and potential dilution of share capital is provided within the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.  
PENSION SCHEMES
There were no changes to the defined contribution pension scheme in 
the year, with staff and directors participating on equal terms. Pension 
costs are recognised as an expense when the contribution is payable.  
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure, primarily on IT hardware and software, totalled £7 .6 
million this year, compared with £6.2 million last year. The increase relates to 
the cyclical replacement of hardware and the continuation of the project to 
enhance the capacity of our key administration systems.  
All of our core systems are developed and maintained in-house and 
as such we have significant IT resource dedicated to IT support and 
development. For the year ended 30 June 2014 an average of 86 staff 
were employed in developing our systems with most of their related 
costs expensed within staff costs.  Any costs relating to the development 
of new systems have been capitalised and will be depreciated over the 
useful economic life of the new system once implemented. In the year 
we capitalised £1.04 million of staff costs. 
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW
The Group is soundly financed with a strong balance sheet and no borrowings. 
This is an important strength which in addition to being attractive to clients
provides both resilience and flexibility. The Group is highly cash generative 
and the cash conversion ratio measured by the operating cash flows as a 
percentage of operating profits remained high at 103%.
Group cash balances totalled £201.2 million at the end of the year.  
The only significant cash outflow from profits has been the second 
interim ordinary and special dividends totalling £109.1 million paid in 
September 2013 and an interim dividend of £32.9 million paid in 
April 2014. 
The Group has four subsidiary companies authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  These firms maintain capital resources 
at a level which satisfies both their regulatory capital requirements and their 
working capital requirements.  Industry regulatory capital requirements have 
increased in recent years and we expect this to continue as a result of FCA 
requirements.  The Group continues to hold a level of capital that provides 
significant headroom over the regulatory minimum.  As at 30 June 2014, the 
aggregated Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirement across the four regulated 
subsidiary companies was approximately £11.2 million compared to capital 
resources of approximately £92.2 million. Capital resources equate to 
approximately three times the Pillar 2 capital requirement, which the Board 
assessed as adequate during our Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).  Further disclosures are published in the Pillar 3 document 
on the Group’s website at www.hl.co.uk.
INCREASE IN COUNTERPARTY BALANCES
In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock 
Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included in the 
balance sheet.  These balances fluctuate according to the volume and 
value of recent trading.  At the year-end, trade receivables and trade 
payables included counterparty balances of £242.9 million (2013: £231.2 
million) and £241.1 million (2013: £230.0 million) respectively.
DIVIDENDS
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy, and has 
declared a second interim (final) ordinary dividend of 15.39 pence and a 
special dividend of 9.61 pence per ordinary share.  These dividends will 
be paid on 26 September 2014 to all shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 12 September 2014.  This brings the total dividends 
in respect of the year to 32.0 pence per ordinary share (2013: 29.59p), 
an increase of 8%. This total ordinary dividend pay-out equates to 65% 
(2013: 65%) of post-tax profits, with a further 28% (2013: 28%) of post-
tax profits paid by way of special dividend. Any special dividend in future 
years will depend upon future cash requirements and therefore may vary.   
An arrangement exists under which the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has 
agreed to waive all dividends.
Tracey Taylor – Chief Financial Officer 
16 September 2014
Dividend (pence per share) 2014 2013 Change
First interim dividend paid 7.0p 6.30p +11%
Second interim dividend 
declared 15.39p 14.38p +7%
Total ordinary dividend 22.39p 20.68p +8%
Special dividend declared 9.61p 8.91p +8%
Total dividend for the year 32.0p 29.59p +8% 23 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk Management 
Framework
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Like all businesses, the Group faces a number of potential risks which, if 
not properly controlled, could hinder the successful implementation of its 
strategy and have a material impact on the long-term performance. The 
Board believes that a successful risk management framework balances 
risk and reward.  The Board has responsibility for risk management and 
internal control, further details of which can be found in the Corporate 
Governance statement. 
Each year we highlight the risk of earnings being impacted by market 
volatility or a fall in interest rates. Markets were less volatile in 2014, 
over the year the FTSE All-Share index rose by 9.4%. This helped the 
business to grow the value of clients’ investments which in turn helped 
increase Group revenue. Interest rates on cash deposits continued to fall 
during the year, and in the low interest rate environment we expect to 
continue to see downward pressure on this revenue stream in the short 
term.  Furthermore, on 10 June 2014 the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) issued Policy Statement PS14/9 setting out changes to the client 
assets sourcebook (CASS) which restricts the use of term deposits for 
client money from 1 July 2014, and this is going to provide a further 
significant revenue headwind in the coming year. Market volatility arising 
from such factors as the Euro crisis or Geo-political events such as 
Ukraine and Iraq remain an accepted risk, although the high percentage 
of assets in tax wrappers mitigates the impact of market turbulence on 
client asset retention. 
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) platform rules as issued in Policy 
Statement PS13/1 were implemented by us as from 1 March 2014 
following a full communication to our clients explaining the rationale 
and the actual changes in January 2014. The new rules mean that for 
Platform business we must move away from commission income to 
explicit platform fees that clients pay directly to us for our services. 
Transitional rules apply however, enabling us to continue to earn 
commission on existing platform assets until 5 April 2016 after 
which any commissions received will be passed entirely on to the 
client. Where we still receive commission the vast majority is now 
passed back to our clients in the form of a significantly higher loyalty 
bonus. 
The risk factors mentioned below do not purport to be exhaustive as 
there may be additional risks that the Group has not yet identified or has 
deemed to be immaterial that could have a material adverse effect on 
the business.
Executive Committee and Audit Committee
Risk Committee
Group Risk Register Process
Operational Managers
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rank
Mitigate Assess
Monitor Identify 24  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk Mitigating Factors/Controls
Industry Risks
Fluctuations in the capital markets
Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading activity 
and/or the value of the Group’s assets under administration or 
management, from which we derive revenues.
• Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile 
transaction-based alternative.
• High proportion of assets under administration in tax wrappers so 
clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
• Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Changing markets and increased competition
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment with 
developing demographic trends and our continued profitability 
depends on our ability to respond to these pressures and trends. 
• Strong market position with pricing power. 
• Full control over flexible platform.
• Experienced management team with a strong track record of 
innovation and responsiveness to the market.
• Client focused with a high level of client satisfaction.
Evolving technology
The Group’s technology needs to remain current if we are to develop 
our systems to accommodate changing preferences, increased 
volumes, new products and the emergence of new industry standards. 
Risks arising from technology change projects need to be minimised.
• Track record of successful development with a high awareness and 
sponsorship of the importance of technology at Board level.
• Substantial development and scalability project teams in place.
• IT change management controls including, where appropriate, 
oversight by project board and steering committees.
Regulatory
The Group may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or 
revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or 
enforcement of existing laws and regulations emanating from the UK 
or Europe.
The Group has needed to replace its significant platform commission 
revenue stream following the implementation of the new FCA Platform 
Rules. 
• Strong compliance culture and culture geared towards FCA focus on 
consumer outcomes.
• Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should the 
capital resource requirement be increased.
• Alternative recurring revenue models are successfully operated by 
the Group and these are being used to mitigate the reduction in 
commission income.
• Competitive prices and service offering have been maintained to 
help ensure business will not be lost to competitors many of whom 
are in any case faced with the same rule change. 
Changes in taxation law
Changes made to tax legislation could reduce the attractiveness of 
some of the Group’s investment products such as ISAs and SIPPs.
• The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings in order 
to plan for an ageing population, which is currently under-provided 
for. This creates opportunity for SIPP and ISA business.
• HMRC has recently confirmed that commission rebates paid to 
clients remain tax-free in both the ISA and SIPP wrappers.
• Recent announcements to potentially permit transfers of Child 
Trust Funds to Junior ISAs from April 2015, and to raise the limit to 
£15,000, show positive Government support for ISAs.
• Recent Budget announcement of changes to pensions rules provides 
opportunities for increased income drawdown and other retirement 
business.
Damage to the Group’s reputation
The risk of reputational damage through our own actions or the actions 
of unassociated third parties (such as copycat websites to fraudulently 
target client funds) needs to be minimised. 
• Clients educated to improve awareness of potential ‘boiler room’ and 
other online scams, and security procedures are communicated to clients.
• Ongoing monitoring and response to emerging threats.
• Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams monitor 
HL’s controls.
Operational Risks
Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in respect of the Group’s 
information, data, software or information technology systems
Serious or prolonged security breaches, cyber-attacks, errors or 
breakdowns in the Group’s software or IT systems must be avoided, 
and IT changes must be carefully controlled to avoid introducing 
system integrity problems or other business continuity issues.
• High level of resilience built into daily operations.
• IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top priorities by 
the Board. 
• Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals, established 
name suppliers and dedicated Information Security Team.  
• IT change management controls including, where appropriate, 
oversight by project board and steering committees.
Business continuity
The risk of disruption to the business as a result of IT or power failure, 
fire, flood, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks, relocation problems and 
similar must be minimised.
• Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across primary and 
two secondary sites, and two alternative sites available for staff 
relocation should the main headquarters be out of action.
• Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice 
methodologies and tested regularly. 25 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Employee actions damaging reputation
The risk of reputational damage e.g. from employee misconduct, failure to 
manage inside information, conflicts of interest, or fraud must be controlled.
• High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
• Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams. 
• Strong compliance culture.
Key personnel 
Key personnel must be recruited and retained to prevent a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s operations and implementation of its 
strategy.
• Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management 
and staff objectives.
• Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
• A continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes is in 
operation to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
Litigation or claims made against the Group
The Group needs to protect against the risk of litigation and actions 
taken by regulatory agencies. 
• High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover. 
• Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing literature.
Reliance on third parties
Outsourced service providers must meet appropriate standards 
to protect the Group from the risk of regulatory sanctions and 
reputational damage.
• Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key suppliers, 
and ongoing review of key business partners.
Strategic risk
Management must remain focused on appropriate strategies and 
implement the Group’s strategy effectively.
• Very experienced management team, with a highly successful 
track record to date.  Management has demonstrated an excellent 
understanding of the market and continues to monitor this 
effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of in-house managed funds
Investment performance of the Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager 
funds needs to remain good relative to the market or in absolute 
terms, or the Group may be vulnerable to outflows in those funds and 
a consequential reduction in revenues.
• HL only manages Fund of Funds to focus on core strength.
• Fund analysis focuses on ‘stock selection’ skills of manager rather 
than basic performance analysis.
• HL Multi-Manager Funds are well diversified at the underlying fund 
level as well as by number of funds, so are less vulnerable to sector 
specific poor performance than more focused funds.
• Well established and proven investment process overseen by an 
internal Investment Committee. 
Financial Risks
Liquidity
The Group must remain able to meet liabilities as they become due and 
be able to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding as necessary.
• Highly cash generative business with low working capital 
requirement, and the Group maintains a substantial surplus above 
regulatory and working capital requirements.
• Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid 
funds at short notice.
Bank default
Given the current economic climate and in particular the 
unprecedented problems faced by banks, the Group must protect 
against the risk that a bank could fail.
• Only use UK banks where we do not believe the Government would 
allow them to fail.
• Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
• Regular review and challenge of Treasury Policy by management.
Interest rates
Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest rates or 
regulatory changes affecting interest income.
• The size and diversity of cash balances we have gives us scope 
to develop alternative cash services which could alleviate margin 
pressure.
• Access to competitive rates due to large value of deposits placed 
and ability to determine the interest on client balances.
• Close interaction with the FCA on all regulatory changes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Corporate social responsibility
At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a positive 
one. Our company values are rooted in providing great service at a great price. We 
believe that doing the right thing makes great business sense. For more information visit 
our website at www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-social-responsibility.
OUR CULTURE
We have worked hard to create what we believe to be a unique working 
culture at Hargreaves Lansdown.
Putting clients first:  At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an embedded 
culture whereby the interests of clients are always put first and this is 
communicated to all employees in the business during their induction 
and throughout their careers. In practice this includes elements such as 
ensuring that:
• all product design and information is clear and understandable 
• information and client support is available to clients after the point of 
sale
• appropriate complaints handling procedures are in place
• financial promotion and marketing practices are unbiased and 
appropriate for their audience 
To ensure we are getting things right with clients, we listen to them 
about the changes they would like to see to our services and we 
encourage and actively seek feedback from clients. If clients ever feel the 
need to complain, our complaints handling team carefully investigates 
our client’s complaint and endeavours to provide them with a fair 
resolution. We benchmark our performance in treating clients fairly 
against statistics published annually by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for the industry. The results for the 2014 financial year compared 
to the last figures published by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves 
Lansdown is achieving good results in treating our clients fairly.
Integrity: The Company prides itself on its integrity in dealing with clients 
and staff openly and honestly. This is achieved through our policy of 
putting clients first. All staff are trained and made fully aware of anti-money 
laundering procedures which must be adhered to at all times. The Company 
takes the views of its employees very seriously and as such operates a 
“Whistleblowing Policy” with any concerns raised about malpractice or 
wrongdoing within the workplace being treated with the utmost confidence 
and in full compliance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act.
Efficiency: We believe that costs require constant consideration and 
have built an ethos of employees continually asking themselves whether 
their actions are cost effective and efficient. 
We are committed to managing the environmental impact of our 
operations, treating our employees well and maintaining a great 
culture and working environment.  Our approach to corporate social 
responsibility includes these key elements:
Quality: We want to offer the best products and offer an excellent 
service, and are always looking for ways to improve.
Sustainability: We work for the long-term, looking beyond immediate 
success.
Integrity: We deal with people openly and honestly, building strong 
relationships.
ENVIRONMENT
As a service business that does not own its business premises and is 
fundamentally based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves Lansdown has 
a limited direct impact on the environment.  Nevertheless the Group 
continues to promote energy efficiency and the avoidance of waste 
throughout its operations.
Last year we commissioned a report to investigate our output of
greenhouse gas emissions and reductive measures we could undertake
(for more information visit www.hl.co.uk/csr). As part of this report 
Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to FTSE 100 companies in the 
same sector and this comparison has been updated in the chart below. 
The results demonstrate the relatively low impact our business has on 
the environment.
This low impact on the environment has not stopped us from enacting 
initiatives to continue reducing our environmental impact.
Environmental initiatives: Our objective of reducing waste and 
minimising the environmental impact of our business is aligned with 
our objectives of protecting client data, reducing costs, and improving 
efficiency. It is our aim to deal with clients and other businesses 
electronically wherever possible not only to speed up information transfer 
but also to reduce the amount of paper we use. We have invested heavily 
in providing a user-friendly, comprehensive website and automated links 
to banks and fund providers. The benefits will grow as more people and 
businesses choose to transact business and receive information online. 
We aim to increase the take-up of online and paperless services, and have 
been successful in doing this during the year:
0           1           2           3           4           5           6          7
Tonnes C02e per employee per annum
HL
Lowest                    Average                                          Highest 27 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
  
Business travel and commuting: We do not provide company cars 
to managers or to our network of advisers. These advisers are spread 
throughout the UK which minimises travel time and carbon emissions. We 
also provide a telephone advice service where a face-to-face meeting is 
not required. We also provide a secure bike park at our office enabling up 
to 150 staff to cycle to work. 
Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle confidential waste and have 
arrangements for the collection of recyclable waste such as printer toner 
cartridges, cardboard, plastics, newspapers and out-of-date literature.  We 
also continue to recycle redundant IT equipment through specialist third 
parties. 
Electricity usage: Our electricity usage is not high enough to mean that 
we have to participate in Phase 2 of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme. This scheme is compulsory for UK 
organisations that consumed over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered 
electricity for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013.  During that period 
we consumed well below that level and for the year ended 30 June 2014 
we had consumed only 3,285 MWh (2013: 2,731 MWh). 
Greenhouse gas emissions: In 2013 we engaged a consultant to assess 
our carbon emissions and benchmark us against other firms in our sector. 
The report was positive and reinforced our belief that we were already 
making good progress towards being resource efficient. For the year 
ending 2014 our use of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per employee 
fell by 10% (2013: 23% fall) while our electricity use per employee 
increased by 22% (2013: 15% fall) compared to the previous year. The 
increase in electricity use was driven by the occupation of additional floor 
space, and additional computing power, in our head office.  
Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 which fall within our consolidated financial statements. 
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not 
included in our consolidated statement. We have used the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised) and emission 
factors from UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting 2014. 
COMMUNITY
With the exceptions described below, we have made it company policy to 
focus our support and fundraising activities on one charity or non-profit 
organisation each year which is selected from suggestions received from 
employees within the Group. We do not make political donations.  During 
2014 the chosen charity was “Penny Brohn Cancer Care”. This charity 
is based in a purpose built centre on the outskirts of Bristol and helps 
people to live well with the impact of cancer through their “Whole Person 
Approach”. 
Charitable activity outside of our chosen charity for the year
• The Group supports a grass-roots sports club. A monthly donation is 
made to the Bristol & West Athletics Club which is the leading all-round 
athletics club in the Southwest of England.
• We are again supporting two teams of staff from Hargreaves Lansdown 
who are competing in the Invesco Perpetual Highland Adventure Race in 
September of this year. This event raises money for the Youth Adventure 
Trust, which aims to provide outdoor adventure programmes for youths 
in order to help give them hope, confidence and life skills. 
The Group also makes significant tax payments which help society as a 
whole. Corporation tax and employers national insurance paid in respect 
of the year ended 30 June 2014 was £52.5 million (2013: £45.0 million). In 
addition other taxes such as VAT, stamp duty and business rates paid.
Campaigning: The Company also actively seeks to lobby via public 
consultation documents where they believe that investors in the UK will 
benefit. Our latest success has been the Government’s agreement to 
consult on what will be the first step in allowing Child Trust Funds to be 
transferred to far superior Junior ISAs from April 2015. 
30 June 
2014
30 June 
2013
Vantage clients were 
registered as paperless 65% 47%
Vantage equity deals 
placed online 92% 90%
Clients registered to use 
our online services 85% 81%
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014
Emissions from: Current 
reporting 
year
2013-2014
Comparison 
year
2012-2013
Change (%)
Combustion of fuel and 
operation of facilities
214.8 220.9 -2.8
Electricity, heat, steam 
and cooling purchased 
for own use
1623.7 1216.4 +33.5
Tonnes of CO2e per 
average full-time 
equivalent employee
2.32 1.97 +17.8
FTSE4Good
Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to be 
included in the FTSE4Good Index series, 
having been independently assessed 
according to the FTSE4Good criteria. The 
FTSE4Good index measures the performance 
of companies that meet globally recognised 
standards on corporate social responsibility. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Our people
We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented people who put our clients 
at the heart of our business. 
Employment and diversity: Hargreaves Lansdown proudly fosters a 
working environment that wholly supports the principals of diversity and 
equality and is committed to ensuring that everyone is treated with dignity 
and respect. We are an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy 
to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on 
merit regardless of any discriminatory factor to ensure the Group attracts, 
retains and promotes the best available talent.  The table above shows the 
gender split at different levels within the organisation as at 30 June 2014:
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment 
and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons 
by the Group. If members of staff become disabled the Group continues 
employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate 
retraining being given if necessary. A full assessment of any disabled 
employee’s needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are made to 
the work environment or practices in order to assist them.
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing a safe and healthy 
environment in which its employees can work.   We use Health and Safety 
consultants on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are maintained, 
and the Health and Safety policy is made available to all staff via our 
intranet.
Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages employee involvement and 
consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed 
of the Company’s activities and financial performance by such means as 
the employee intranet and publication to all staff of relevant information 
and corporate announcements.  During the year we undertook our first 
employee survey.  Over 68% of our staff responded to the survey.  The 
results were positive and we have put in place action plans to address 
improvements where they are needed.
We have successfully implemented “auto-enrolment”, the introduction of 
a compulsory employee pension contribution, to sit alongside the existing 
employer contributions which Hargreaves Lansdown continues to make on 
behalf of its employees.
Recruitment and development: Our aim is to recruit at graduate, or entry, 
level with a strong emphasis on internal development.  We encourage 
internal moves within the business such that internal talent is used to fill 
new opportunities. We believe that this fosters staff loyalty whilst at the 
same time building a strong team of future managers.  
Professional development is actively encouraged and many of our staff 
embark on professional qualifications to further their knowledge and 
careers within the Company. In total we have supported 222 individuals to 
at least begin the process of studying for professional qualifications during 
the 12 months ended 30 June 2014 and in the same period 171 staff have 
sat and passed a professional exam and 124 completed a professional 
qualification.
Each year we offer a number of university students the opportunity 
to work in positions throughout the business during their professional 
placement year. A number of these students have subsequently returned 
to Hargreaves Lansdown in a full time capacity.
Competitive pay: Rewarding employees for their contribution and 
performance is key to ensuring that we retain talented staff and to 
fostering a positive culture whereby staff are proud to work here.  Further 
information on how we set remuneration packages is provided in the 
Directors Remuneration Report.
We continue to focus on motivating and retaining our best staff.  The Board 
believes the use of share schemes best aligns staff interests with those 
of other shareholders. During April 2014 we granted new options under a 
SAYE scheme and now have 83.2% of eligible staff participating in one or 
more equity schemes. This year the majority of employees also received 
an annual bonus related to the overall performance of the Group and 
their own individual contribution.  We also retain and attract staff through 
the provision of training, career progression, good communication and 
a vibrant culture. The continued growth and success of the organisation 
continues to create opportunities for staff. 
As a UK based organisation with clients and employees located within 
the UK we have not provided further information about any policies of 
the company in relation to human rights issues since it is not considered 
necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or 
position of the Group’s business activities.
 
Notes: 
1. Company Directors consists of the Company’s Board as detailed on page 30.
2. Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, 
direction or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the 
company, other than the Company Directors.
Male Female
Company Directors
1
6 (75%) 2 (25%)
Other senior management
2
23 (85%) 4 (15%)
Total employees 578 (68%) 266 (32%)
Total workforce = 844 29 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Governance overview from the Chairman 
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to 
high standards of Corporate Governance, 
as befits a FTSE 100 company entrusted 
with looking after the investments of its 
valued clients. This section of the Report 
and Financial Statements provides 
an insight into the governance of the 
Company.
The Group complies with the vast majority of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’). The statement of compliance can be 
found on page 32. The Audit Committee report has also been updated 
this year to incorporate the revisions to the Code. Key areas of note 
are the disclosures surrounding the support that that Committee has 
provided to the Board in making the statement that the Report and 
Financial Statements when taken as a whole are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and the further disclosures on the Audit Committee’s 
role in the appointment and interaction with the external auditor.
STRATEGY
As a Board, we set strategic direction, define risk appetite and provide 
oversight of the day-to-day running of the business. As Chairman, I seek 
to ensure that adequate time is set aside at Board meetings for the 
discussion and debate of proposed strategic initiatives and direction. 
Once a decision is reached, management are responsible for executing 
that decision with the Board’s ongoing oversight and support. This 
process underpinned our decisions around the operational and pricing 
changes arising from the implementation of the requirements of the 
FCA’s Retail Distribution Review during the year. 
In this 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the new Strategic 
Report replaces the old “Strategic Review and Performance Review” 
section of the 2013 Report and Financial Statements and has been 
used to articulate a number of key aspects of our business, such as our 
strategic aims, our business model, a business and financial review of the 
year, our approach to risk management and an insight into Hargreaves 
Lansdown’s approach towards corporate and social responsibility.
PEOPLE AND REMUNERATION 
Within the Group we want to ensure that we have the right talent, and 
the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, background, gender 
and perspectives.  This year we have set out on page 28 improved 
reporting on this to give better insight into ‘Our People’ such as training, 
development and diversity. It is also vital that we have on the Board this 
right diversity, and also independence of thought and action.  All Board 
appointments are made on merit, while at the same time considering 
the diversity required for an effective Board, including diversity of skills, 
experience, background and gender. Details of our diversity policy can 
be found on page 28, and a copy of our full statement on Board Diversity 
can be found on www.hl.co.uk.
This year has seen the introduction of new remuneration rules, in regard 
to both the process for setting and agreeing Directors’ remuneration 
policy and how this is reported. This represents the biggest change 
in this field for some time. The new Remuneration Report on pages 
43 to 55 addresses this new legislation and will assist with providing 
shareholders with a clearer picture on the processes that are used to 
determine how Directors are remunerated, and how these processes link 
with strategic goals. The new report has three key sections:
– The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee: This provides an overview of the work of the 
Remuneration Committee during the year. 
– Directors Remuneration Policy: This articulates the policy that, 
subject to shareholder approval, will be effective from the AGM and 
will govern the way we set and manage Directors’ remuneration. 
– Annual Report on Remuneration: This report shows the level of 
remuneration paid to the Directors in the financial year.
The new rules have introduced a new concept of a “single figure” of 
remuneration for each Director, and now provides more analysis over 
the pay of the Chief Executive, including comparison to other financial 
metrics, coupled with a 5-year history of his pay. 
WORKING EFFECTIVELY
As Chairman my prime responsibility is to ensure that the Board is 
operating effectively and focusing its time, attention and efforts on 
the right things.  Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation 
of its own effectiveness.  The 2014 Board Effectiveness Review 
was completed in August 2014, and the Board has agreed a set of 
priorities against which we will report progress in next year’s Corporate 
Governance Report. 
Michael Evans – Chairman
16 September 2014
Michael Evans 
Chairman 30  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Board of Directors 
MICHAEL EVANS, FIA
CHAIRMAN, 53  
Appointed Chairman in December 2009
Chairman of the nomination Committee, member of the Remuneration Committee
Michael became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in September 2006 and was appointed 
Non-Executive Chairman in November 2009. Michael is a qualified actuary with over 30 years’ 
industry experience. He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc, a Non-
Executive Director of esure Group PLC and Chesnara PLC. He is a member of the advisory board 
of Spectrum Corporate Finance and is a Trustee of Wessex Heartbeat. Michael was formerly Chief 
Operating Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
IAN GORHAM, ACA
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 42
Appointed CEO in September 2010
Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 as Chief Operating Officer. Previously he qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant and worked for Deloitte where he helped build their UK financial services 
operations and was Head of Grant Thornton’s UK financial services business. Ian has worked with 
many financial services companies on a wide range of strategic and operational matters. Ian holds 
no external Director appointments.
TRACEY TAYLOR, FCCA MSC
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, 42
Appointed CFO in November 2008
Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.  Her previous responsibilities within the Group have 
included the operational areas of IT systems and client accounting, group finance, treasury and 
the company secretarial function. In 2006 Tracey was appointed to the role of Group Accounting 
Director and to the Executive Committee before being appointed to the main Board in 2008. Prior 
to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualified as an accountant before working for LloydsTSB.  
Tracey holds no external Director appointments.
PETER HARGREAVES, FCA
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 67
Appointed to his current role in  September 2010 (formerly CEO)
Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the Group until 
September 2010. Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant and worked for KPMG, Unisys 
Group and Whitbread Plc.  Peter is also a Non-Executive Director of ITM Power Plc. 31 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CHRIS BARLING, BSC
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 58
Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2010
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee and Nomination 
Committee
Chris has over 30 years’ IT industry experience and formerly held senior IT roles in Cable & 
Wireless and Reuters. He is the co-founder of Actinic, the software company specialising in 
ecommerce solutions for SMEs.  Actinic went public on the London Stock Exchange in May 2000. 
He is also co-author of a well respected book on online business. He is a director of User Replay 
Limited and Powered Now Ltd.
SHIRLEY GARROOD, BSC, ACA
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 56
Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2013. 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration 
Committee
Shirley was Chief Financial Officer of Henderson Group Plc from 2009 to June 2013, and prior to 
that, she had been Chief Operating Officer since 2001. She trained as an accountant with KPMG 
and is also a Corporate Treasurer. Shirley is currently also a Non-Executive Director of esure Group 
Plc and joined the Peabody Trust Board in 2013.
DHARMASH MISTRY, BA (OXON), MENG
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 44
Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011
Member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee
Dharmash is a former partner at Balderton Capital LLC, one of Europe’s leading venture capital 
firms.  He has previously served on the board of Dixons Retail plc and Lovefilm (AMZN) and was 
Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer Media. He started his career as a Brand Manager at 
Procter and Gamble, followed by a period at The Boston Consulting group.
STEPHEN ROBERTSON, BSC, FRSA
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 59
Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011. Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee
Stephen is a Non-Executive Director of Timpson Group plc, Clipper Logistics plc and Chairman 
of Business West Limited. Stephen’s career has spanned 14 years on the boards of major UK 
retailers and earlier roles with Mars Inc, Unilever and Alberto-Culver. Stephen served for seven 
years as Marketing Director at B&Q plc before leading the acquisition of Screwfix Direct which he 
then chaired. Previous positions also include board membership of Woolworth plc and Director 
of Communications at Kingfisher plc. He is a former Chairman, and now fellow, of the Marketing 
Society, and is former Director General of British Retail Consortium (BRC). 32  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the 
Financial Reporting Council (the ‘Code’).  The FRC introduced a number 
of new requirements into the Code, for financial years ending on or 
after 30 September 2013, for the Directors to confirm that the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable. This is the first year that this 
requirement applies to Hargreaves Lansdown plc and although we have 
always believed that our annual report meets these criteria, we reviewed 
our processes this year to ensure that we can provide the necessary 
confirmation and have the evidence to back up this statement. In order 
to assist the Board in making this confirmation, we asked the Audit 
Committee to provide advice on this point, and further detail of the review 
and process in place can be found in the Audit Committee report.
We consider that the Group complied with all of the provisions of the Code 
throughout the year ended 30 June 2014 and can confirm that the Board be-
lieves the Annual Report and Financial Statements for 2014, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess our performance, business model and strategy. 
During the year ended 30 June 2014, Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it 
has applied the principles of the Code with the following exceptions:
1. Board effectiveness and performance evaluation
 We did not comply with Section B.6.1 of the Code which states that the 
evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every 
three years. This year, as per the three previous years, the Board carried 
out an internally facilitated review, led by the Chairman. Prior to deciding 
to perform an internal review, the Board debated the issue having due 
regard to the requirements of the Code. In reaching its decision the Board 
took account of the following factors: the Group had enjoyed another 
successful business year, the previous internally led evaluations have led 
to positive developments and the presence of the largest shareholder on 
the Board ensures that the Board’s focus remains on driving shareholder 
value. Finally the culture of the Group is to avoid unnecessary 
discretionary spending and the Board deemed the prospective costs of 
an externally facilitated review would outweigh the likely additional value 
and therefore not in the best interest of shareholders.
2. We did not comply with Section D.2.3 of the Code which states that 
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should be made within the 
limits set in the Articles of Association. Retrospective approval for 
these payments will be sought at the Company’s AGM on 24 October 
2014, and a resolution increasing the remuneration limit will be put to 
shareholders.
Further explanation of how the main principles and supporting principles of 
the Code have been applied is set out in this Corporate Governance statement 
and in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. A copy of the Code is publicly 
available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. 
The Company’ s auditor , PwC, is required to review whether the above statement 
reflects the Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report 
if it does not reflect such compliance; no such report has been made. 
The Board 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD
The Board has overall responsibility for the management and performance 
of the Group. It sets the strategic direction of the Group, monitors 
performance, determines the appropriate risk appetite, and ensures 
that sufficient resources in talent and capital are in place to achieve 
the objectives set and ensures solid succession planning for senior 
management. It ensures that risk, regulatory and compliance management 
within the Group is effective. The Board reviews performance, including 
that of the senior management and senior executives. The Board is also 
responsible for engaging with shareholders.  It is the decision-making body 
for all other matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial 
and reputational terms.  
The Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business 
operations.  The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for constructively 
challenging proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of 
management, determining levels of remuneration and for succession 
planning for the Executive Directors.  The Non-Executive Directors must 
also satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that 
financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that obligations to 
shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, and that 
a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained. All Directors are 
equally accountable to our shareholders for the proper stewardship of our 
affairs and the success of the Company.
Except for a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, 
the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the 
Chief Executive who is supported by the Executive Committee and senior 
management.  The Chief Executive and Executive Directors of the Group 
are responsible to the Board for developing strategy and the profitability 
and overall performance of the Group. 
There is a documented schedule of matters which are reserved for 
Board decision and approval. These matters are significant to the Group 
as a whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational implications, 
and include, but are not limited to, the agreement of strategies, 
recommendation of dividends, approval of acquisitions and major 
capital expenditure. In addition, it is only the Board which can appoint 
and remove Directors and our Company Secretary. The Board also has 
overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal controls and risk 
management.  Risk management arrangements are described below.
Corporate Governance Report  33 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is 
outlined in the diagram above and set out in the report that follows. The 
Group’s internal control and risk management framework is described 
below in the Internal Controls section.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the Board 
Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to 
ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management.  
Other non-board committees form part of the Corporate Governance 
framework, but are not formally appointed committees of the Board. These 
committees feed back to the main Board and Board Committees via an 
Executive Director where appropriate.  
BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION AND CHANGES DURING THE YEAR
As at 30 June 2014 there were eight Directors on the Board: the Chairman, 
four independent Non-Executive Directors, and three Executive Directors. 
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board 
and, in particular the Nominations Committee, to ensure that there is an 
appropriate and diverse mix of skills and experience.
During the year, the following changes were made:
• Jonathan Bloomer retired from the Board as a Non-Executive Director 
on 25 October 2013; and
• Shirley Garrood was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 25 October 2013.
Details on our Board members, including other directorships, are on 
page 31.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant to the Board 
in determining whether each Non-Executive Director is independent. We 
have given due regard to provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and the Board has concluded that Dharmash Mistry, Stephen 
Robertson, Chris Barling and Shirley Garrood were independent directors 
throughout the financial year.  Jonathan Bloomer was an independent 
director until his retirement from the Board. Michael Evans was 
independent on appointment as Chairman.  Chris Barling is currently the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.  
DIVERSITY
When assessing new appointments to our Board, we review carefully the 
combined skills and experience of the existing Board members to determine 
what characteristics we are looking for from a new director. Each member 
of the Hargreaves Lansdown Board must have the skills, experience and 
character that will enable each director to contribute both individually, and 
as part of the team, to the effectiveness of the Board and the success of 
the Company. We believe that diversity amongst Board members is of great 
value but that diversity is a far wider subject than just gender. We will give 
careful consideration to issues of overall Board balance and diversity in 
making new appointments to the Board. 
As of today, the Board numbers eight in total, of which three are executive 
and five independent (including the Chairman). Female directors constitute 
25% of the Board and 14% of the Executive Committee (25% when including 
the Company Secretary). Subject to the requirements set out above, 
Hargreaves Lansdown will aim to maintain female representation on the 
Board at least at the current level and give due consideration to increasing 
the level if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise. 
A copy of our full statement on Board Diversity can be found on 
www.hl.co.uk.
THE ROLES OF CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined, separate 
and approved by the Board.
Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board
External audit
Internal audit
Executive committee and Non-Board committees
Nomination
committee
Remuneration
committee
Board 
committees
Audit 
committee
Investment
committee
Treasury
committee
Interest rate
committee
IT Steering
Group
Risk
committee
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Governance framework 34  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and governance 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.  In 
conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the 
Chairman plans agenda items and timings for Board meetings. The 
Chairman ensures that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the 
needs of the business and that Board committees carry out their duties, 
including reporting back to the Board.
The Chief Executive has executive responsibilities for the operations, 
results and strategic development of the Group. He is responsible for the 
delivery of strategy and leads the executive management team.
BOARD SUPPORT
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board 
procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied 
with and that the Board is advised on governance and relevant regulatory 
matters.  All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.    
In order for Directors to fulfil their duties they can also seek independent 
professional advice, at the Company’s expense. 
 
BOARD MEETINGS 
The Board convenes at least four times each financial year and the Board 
convened nine times in the last financial year.  Five of these were physical 
meetings and four were conference calls.
Physical meetings are held in such a way as to encourage robust and 
constructive challenge and debate which enables the Non-Executive 
Directors to use their knowledge and experience to critically review 
strategies proposed by management.  This approach ensures that we act 
in the long-term best interests of our shareholders.
From July 2013, as a direct result of the Board Effectiveness review last 
year, the Board introduced interim Board meetings to fall between the four 
main Board meetings, which take place in the form of conference calls.  
These further help the Non-Executive Directors to keep fully informed 
of recent developments and ensure that Directors fully work together to 
ensure the smooth running of the business. 
Between Board meetings, Directors are also provided with monthly 
information packs which include detailed commentary and analysis.  
To ensure that Directors are as fully informed as possible, minutes are 
circulated from each Committee, including the Executive Committee, and 
each Board meeting includes a report from the Committee Chairmen as 
appropriate.  The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have also held 
meetings separate to those with the Executive Directors, including meeting 
with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit. 
DIRECTORS
Under the existing Articles of Association all directors have to submit 
themselves for re-election annually if they wish to continue serving and 
are considered by the Board to be eligible.   All current directors wish 
to be re-elected and the Board confirms that all individual performance 
reviews demonstrated that the directors continue to demonstrate effective 
performance and commitment to their roles.  
TRAINING
Our Chairman is responsible for preparing and implementing a 
personalised induction programme for all new Directors, to include 
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of 
the Company.  We believe that the best way to learn about a business is to 
spend time within it, and we encourage new Directors to spend time with 
our senior managers and executives in a number of business areas and to 
receive demonstrations of key operations and systems where relevant. 
Every director has access to appropriate training throughout their 
appointment as director and we regularly assess the requirement for 
director training as part of each director’s annual appraisal.
Our overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional standards 
for all our employees.  We believe that these standards are particularly 
important for all staff who fall under the scope of the FCA Training and 
Competence rules.  All staff under the scope of these rules are required to 
perform certain training annually.  
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
This year, the Board carried out an internally facilitated Board 
effectiveness review. The review was led by the Chairman and covered 
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its individual Directors and its 
Committees.  One to one discussions were held between the Chairman 
and the Non-Executive Directors and between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive. All Directors were given the opportunity to provide 
comments on the draft report. The effectiveness review was discussed 
and approved at the Board meeting in August 2014. The conclusion 
was that, despite the focus of the work of the Board being dominated 
by the RDR, the Board’s effectiveness had improved over the year. 
The increased number of meetings had helped and a greater focus 
on strategy and its implementation had been achieved. Greater input 
and challenge had been provided by the Non-Executive Directors both 
inside and outside the Board meetings. As always, there is room for 
improvement and a number of actions have been agreed to be pursued 
in the coming year which should deliver further improvements. 
Individual appraisal of each Executive Director’s performance is undertaken 
by either the Chief Executive or Chairman each year and involves meetings 
with each director on a one-to-one basis.   The Non-Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, carry out an appraisal of the 
performance of the Chairman.  The Chief Executive’s performance was 
evaluated by the Chairman with input from the rest of the Board.
OTHER INFORMATION
Certain additional information in relation to the Company’s share capital,  35 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
the powers of directors and amendments to the Articles of Association 
that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.6 may be found in 
the Directors Report on pages 55 to 57.
Board committees 
This section of the report sets out how the Board and its Committees 
work within the Group’s governance framework and corporate 
governance guidelines.
The Board is authorised to manage the business of the Company in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. The Articles of 
Association may be amended by special resolution of shareholders, 
unless the Articles specify otherwise.  Certain responsibilities of the 
Board are delegated to the Board Committees to assist the Board 
in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent oversight 
of internal control and risk management. The three principal Board 
Committees (Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination) play an essential 
role in supporting the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities. The Chairman 
of each Committee reports to the Board. The minutes of each Board 
Committee meeting are circulated to the attendees.  
The Board Committees all have formal terms of reference that have been 
approved by the Board, and performance of the Committees is assessed 
annually by the Board.  Each Committee’s terms of reference sets out 
the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given by the 
Board. These terms of reference are reviewed annually and the terms 
of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee are 
available on the Group’s website (www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations). 
A summary of the terms of reference for each committee is included in 
the committee summaries below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Details of the composition and work of the Audit Committee are 
provided in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 41. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Details of the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee are 
provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 55.
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments, 
re-election and succession of directors and the Chairman.  It is responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition 
and skills of the Board including proposed appointees to the Board and 
the membership of the Committees. The Committee is chaired by Michael 
Evans and the Committee’s other members at 30 June 2014 were Chris 
Barling, Dharmash Mistry, Shirley Garrood and Stephen Robertson.   
Jonathan Bloomer was on the Committee until his retirement from the 
Board on 25 October 2013. The Nomination Committee meets at least 
twice each year and the Committee met twice during this year.  The 
attendance by each director is set out in the table on page 38.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors to the Board. The process involves the Nomination 
Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by 
existing Board members, by an external search company, or via searches 
performed by the Company itself.  Consideration will be given to ensure 
appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that 
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board will be 
maintained.  When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the 
Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board 
and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following 
recommendation from the Committee. 
During the year the Committee completed the successful search for 
a new Non-Executive Director, resulting in the appointment of Shirley 
Garrood.  Details of the process used in the recruitment of Mrs Garrood 
were detailed in the 2013 Annual Report. Following this appointment, 
the Committee reviewed the composition of the Committees and 
recommended the appointment of Chris Barling as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and also as Senior Independent Director and 
the appointment of Shirley Garrood as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and to join the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Committee has reviewed the succession plans for the senior 
management team and considered individuals with the potential to take 
on management positions in the future.  The Board is further considering 
the organisation structure and succession will form part of these 
discussions.
Other committees
These committees form part of the Corporate Governance framework, 
but are not formally appointed Non-Executive committees of the Board.  
The two main Committees are the Executive Committee and the Risk 
Committee:
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee 
subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full 
Board only.  In particular, the Executive Committee is responsible to 
the Chief Executive for developing and monitoring every aspect of the 
Group’s business on a continuing basis, for developing and implementing 
business strategy as agreed by the Board and ensuring that day-to-day 
operations are conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory 
and statutory requirements. The Executive Committee meets at least 
quarterly but more frequently when required, and met seven times 
during the current financial year.  The attendance by each director is set 
out in the table on page 38.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, 
and in his absence by either Tracey Taylor or Peter Hargreaves.  During 
the year the committee also comprised the following:
• Nigel Bence – Chief Operating Officer
• Nick Marson – Vantage and Broking Operations Director 
• Ian Hunter – Investment Marketing Director 
• David Davies – IT Director
• Alex Davies – Director of Pensions (until December 2013)
 
Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are 
invited to attend the Executive Committee. Biographies of the above are 
available on our website: www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations.
RISK COMMITTEE
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and also 
comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, IT Director, Operations 
Director, Marketing Director and a Non-Executive Director.  The Committee 
reports back to the Board and the Audit Committee on the management of 
the major risks facing the Group as assessed against the Group’s Risk Appetite. 
We also have a Treasury Committee, which recommends and oversees
changes to the treasury management policy , an Investment Committee, which
monitors the investments held in the HL Multi-Manager funds, as well as an 
Interest Rate Committee, CASS Oversight Committee and an IT Steering Group.  
* Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they 
are unable to attend at short notice. In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, five additional Board calls were held as updates between the formal Board meetings. 
(1) Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in October 2013. (2) Attendance represents number of meetings since appointment in October 2013. (3)Attendance represents 
number of meetings prior to stepping down in December 2013.
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee
Board 
Meetings * 
Board calls Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nomination 
Committee 
Executive 
Committee 
Risk 
Committee 
Directors
Ian Gorham 5/5 4/4 - - - 7/8 4/4
Peter Hargreaves 5/5 2/4 - - - 6/8 -
Tracey Taylor 5/5 4/4 - - - 8/8 -
Michael Evans 5/5 4/4 - 4/4 2/2 - -
Jonathan Bloomer (1) 1/1 2/2 2/2 4/4 2/2 - -
Chris Barling 5/5 4/4 4/4 4/4 2/2 - -
Dharmash Mistry 4/5 4/4 4/4 4/4 2/2 - -
Stephen Robertson 5/5 4/4 4/4 - 2/2 - 4/4
Shirley Garrood (2) 4/4 2/2 2/2 2/2 - - -
Executive Committee
Nigel Bence - - - - - 8/8 3/4
Alex Davies (3) - - - - - 3/4 -
Nick Marson - - - - - 7/8 4/4
Ian Hunter - - - - - 8/8 3/4
David Davies - - - - - 6/8 4/4
Relations with shareholders
We are committed to maintaining good communications with our 
shareholders.  We have a programme of communication with shareholders 
based on our financial reporting calendar including the interim and annual 
reports, Interim Management Statements, the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
and the Investor Relations section of the corporate website at www.hl.co.uk.  
In addition to this, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet with 
institutional investors after results announcements and upon request on an 
ad hoc basis during the year. They, together with the Company Secretary 
and Head of Investor Relations, also provide a point of contact for investors 
who wish to raise questions, queries or concerns.  Chris Barling, our Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, is also available to meet key investors. 
Following dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer ensured the Board was fully 
briefed on shareholders’ views such that any issues or concerns were fully 
understood and considered by the Board.   Analyst and broker briefings are 
regularly provided to the Board.  In addition, the Group’s brokers sought 
feedback from investors following the 2013 final and 2014 interim results, 
and this feedback was reported to the Board.
All Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM 
and they value the opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and 
other investors to communicate directly and address their questions.  
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings separate 
resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject.  Resolutions have been 
passed on a show of hands, and proxy votes for, against and withheld 
for each resolution are displayed at the meeting.  Following the AGM, the 
results of voting are published through a Regulatory Information Service 
and on our website. 37 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Internal controls 
INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK 
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
of internal control and risk management, the key features of which are 
outlined in the following chart and detailed below. 
Through the monitoring processes set out below, the Board has 
conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control 
during the year ended 30 June 2014. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance as to the effectiveness of the 
safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss 
or fraud.  In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not 
indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board 
is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of 
this Annual Report. However, in acknowledgement that the business 
and the risks it faces are continually evolving and as part of a process 
of continuous improvement, steps are being taken to further embed 
internal controls and risk management into business operations. 
KEY FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Terms of Reference
The Board operates within clearly defined terms of reference, and it 
reserves certain matters for its own consideration and decision. It has 
established appropriate committees to oversee control activities. These 
committees also have clearly defined terms of reference. The Board 
and Committee processes are fundamental to the effectiveness of our 
internal controls. 
Organisational structure and policies
The Board regularly reviews the Group’s organisational structure to 
seek to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility exist, with 
appropriate delegation of authority.  Roles and responsibilities are clearly 
communicated to each member of staff within their ‘Apportionment 
Forms’.  These forms are reviewed annually and updated if necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the Group’s policies which are in place to 
manage the Group’s exposure to risks, such as treasury, interest rate risk
and counterparty risk. Our public interest disclosure (whistleblowing) 
policy encourages employees to raise concerns about anything that 
they suspect is fraudulent, corrupt, dangerous or seriously wrong.  They 
can raise concerns on  a confidential basis, enabling proportionate and 
independent investigation to be undertaken.  We thoroughly investigate 
any allegations of misconduct and irregularity and consider the 
implications for our control environment. 
Organisational
structure and 
policies
Group risk 
strategy
Management
information
Risk
committee
Remuneration
policy
Our values
and culture
Group ﬁnance
Group 
compliance
Internal 
audit
Terms of 
reference
Internal control 
framework
External 
audit
Regulatory 
supervision 
and monitoring
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to attempted fraud on 
a regular basis.  Strict processes and controls mean that we are able to 
identify attacks and deal with them appropriately on a timely basis.  We 
are continually looking at ways of making our clients’ transactions with 
us more secure and have dedicated resource within the business whose 
focus is on managing fraud risk. We also employ external consultants to 
test our defences and to minimise fraud risk.
Group Risk Strategy
The Group Risk Strategy requires senior managers to identify, 
evaluate and manage risks in their business units.  Risk registers 
are kept at department level and regular meetings are held between 
department managers and members of the Risk team to ensure that 
risk management remains high on the agenda of the business.  Target 
dates for resolution of issues are continually monitored.  A summary of 
significant risks is provided within the Business Review. 
Risk management processes within the Group accord with the ‘Internal 
Control: Guidance to Directors’ (formerly the Turnbull guidance), and 
are supported by reports from the Internal Audit function which include 
focus on significant risks faced by the Group. 
Management information
Detailed packs of key information are circulated monthly to our 
senior management team and Non-Executive Directors.  Our business 
performance is monitored closely by the Board and senior management, 
in particular monitoring of:
• progress towards strategic objectives;
• financial performance, within a framework including forecasting, 
financial reporting, reviewing variances against plan and prior year 
and taking appropriate management action; and
• risk management processes. 
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee reports to the Board and the Audit Committee on 
the management of the major risks and emerging risks facing the Group 
as assessed against the Group’s Risk Appetite.
Remuneration policy
Risk management is embedded into the Apportionment Forms of every 
employee and awareness and mitigation of the risks faced by the 
Company are key factors used to evaluate individual performance. This 
policy creates an environment which ensures excessive risk taking is 
not rewarded. We believe that nothing will better encourage employees 
to look after the long-term future of the Group than being shareholders 
themselves, and so staff have the opportunity to invest in regular 
Save As You Earn share schemes and  exceptional performance by key 
employees and senior managers will be rewarded with the grant of 
executive share awards. 
Our values and culture
Any system of internal control is dependent on the people operating 
it.  ‘Our Culture’ defines what we expect from our people.  We pride 
ourselves on the culture which exists within the Company.  We have a 
‘one-firm’ mentality which helps everyone take responsibility for the 
whole of the business.   We have a saying “success comes from putting 
the client first, Hargreaves Lansdown second and your department 
third.”  This engenders service levels which many other companies 
can only aspire to and ensures that the requirements of our clients are 
foremost in our employees’ decision making process.    
Group Finance
The Group Finance department manages our financial reporting 
processes to ensure the information which enables our Board to 
discharge its responsibilities is provided on a timely basis. It ensures 
cost controls are in place and that the business efficiently manages its 
resources.  It also produces a financial forecast based on the strategic 
and operational plans of the business which is continuously reviewed 
and is used to plan and review regulatory capital requirements. 
Group Compliance 
Our Compliance function manages relationships with the Group’s key 
regulators alongside identifying major compliance and regulatory risks.  
Our Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) is part of the Risk and 
Financial Crime team and is responsible for ensuring we have suitable 
anti-money laundering (AML) procedures and controls, and adequate 
AML training for all staff. The MLRO specifically considers the risk of loss 
through financial crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of 
such loss.
Internal Audit
Our Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on the 
effectiveness of key internal controls.
External audit and regulatory supervision
The majority of the activities of the Group, including the systems of 
business control, are subject to supervision by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed 
prudential and statistical returns covering all areas of its business and 
meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an 
open and constructive manner. In addition, the Audit Committee also 
receives reports from our external auditor. 39 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Audit Committee Report  
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its Terms of 
Reference, which are designed to assist the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities for:
•    monitoring  the financial reporting process including the integrity 
of our annual and interim reports, preliminary results and any other 
formal announcements relating to financial performance; 
•  ensuring that the integrity of our Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides shareholders with the information necessary to access 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy;  
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems; 
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
Audit function;
• making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to 
the shareholders for their approval in general meetings in relation to 
the appointment or removal of the external auditor and the approval 
of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor; 
• reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; 
and
• overseeing the Group’s procedures for public interest disclosure 
(whistleblowing).
The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any 
matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement 
is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken. 
However, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving financial reports and other public statements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the 
Committee.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The members of the Audit Committee at 30 June 2014 were:
Shirley Garrood – Chairman (Chartered Accountant) – appointed 25 
October 2013
Chris Barling – appointed 26 August 2010
Dharmash Mistry – appointed 3 October 2011
Stephen Robertson – appointed 3 October 2011
Jonathan Bloomer, who was previously Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
retired from the Board on 25 October 2013.
All members of the Committee are independent. The biographies of 
Committee members can be found on pages 32 to 33.
On an on-going basis, membership of the Committee is reviewed by 
the Chairman of the Committee and any recommendations for new 
appointments are made to the Nomination Committee for onward 
recommendation to the Board.  During the year a new Chairman 
was appointed. Appointments are for a period of three years and 
are extendable by no more than two additional three-year periods. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the inclusion of at least 
one member with recent and relevant financial experience and our 
Committee Chairman currently fulfils this requirement.   
 
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee 
members and on-going training to enable all of the Committee members 
to carry out their duties.  The induction programme covers the role of the 
Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment 
by members, and an overview of the Group’s business, including the 
main business and financial dynamics and risks.  New Committee 
members also meet some of the Group’s staff, as appropriate.  On-going 
training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal briefings and 
briefings by external advisers.
Shirley Garrood
Chairman of the Audit Committee
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
MEETINGS
The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year but more 
frequently when required, and met four times during this financial 
year.  The attendance by each director is set out in the table on page 
38. The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Operating Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chief Executive are routinely invited to, and attend, 
the majority of meetings, although the Committee reserves the right to 
request any of these individuals to withdraw.  The external auditor also 
attended all meetings.
In between the formal schedule of meetings the Committee Chairman 
keeps in regular contact with the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, 
Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk Officer and the Senior Engagement 
Partner of the external auditor.
OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO 
DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES
In discharging its responsibilities the Audit Committee concentrated on 4 
main areas:
1. Financial Reporting
2. Internal controls and key risks
3. Effectiveness of internal audit
4. Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor 
The Audit Committee has also conducted a self-assessment of its own 
effectiveness for the year and was satisfied with the results achieved 
and has agreed actions where improvements were suggested.  
1. Financial Reporting
With support and input from the external auditor, the Committee has 
considered, challenged and reviewed financial reporting for the Group, 
assessed whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, 
whether management have made appropriate estimates and judgements 
and whether disclosures in published financial statements were fair, 
balanced and understandable.  
The Committee has also considered, challenged and reviewed regular 
financial management information, the Group’s internal capital adequacy 
assessment process (ICAAP) document and risk appetite statement 
during the year.  
The integrity of the financial statements is underpinned by the control 
environment.  In this regard, the Committee has considered risk and 
control reports from the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer, and 
the Compliance Officer and satisfied itself that the integrity of the control 
environment supporting the financial reporting and disclosure process is 
appropriate. 
Significant financial judgments and financial reporting for 2014
As part of its work in the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, has examined the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
Interim Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Management 
Statements, related disclosures, consistency of accounting policies 
and the financial reporting process.  This has included the review 
and approval of the Annual Report, and consideration of the Income 
Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial 
Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, Going Concern statement and 
the Statement of Cash Flows, with an emphasis on ensuring that these 
are fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of the review of the Annual Report, the Audit Committee has 
considered various issues and discussed how these are addressed:  
• The most significant of these are the basis for revenue recognition 
and the impact of RDR.  The Committee has also considered the 
valuation of share based payments. Whilst considering these issues, 
the Committee received information from the Chief Financial Officer 
and the external auditor, and also received specific training regarding 
the valuation of share based payments.  Increased confidence has 
been derived from the change in external audit approach such that 
revenue streams were recalculated on 100% of our most significant 
revenue streams, with sample based testing on the remainder.  The 
external audit has also included a benchmarking exercise of our IT 
controls, and a review of counterparty balances. In each respect, the 
Committee concluded that the basis of accounting and disclosure is 
appropriate.
• The Committee evaluated whether the going concern basis of 
accounting was appropriate by assessing the ICAAP and forecasts.  
This included a review of possible extreme stress scenarios.  The 
Committee concluded that the liquidity and capital position of the 
Group remained appropriate.
The Company has in place arrangements to ensure that the Annual 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides shareholders with the information necessary to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.  The Committee 
examined the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements and was 
specifically tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the report is fair, 
balanced and understandable.  
The Committee did this by satisfying itself that there is a robust 
process of challenge, including challenge by the Committee itself.  The 
Committee’s own challenge process included questioning the Chief 
Executive on the overall messages and tone of his review statement, 
examining and challenging reports from both management and the 
external auditor relating to the Annual Report, and reviewing consistency 
with internal reports presented to the Board by management, the Chief 
Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Chief Risk Officer during 
the year. After challenge and debate and consideration of all relevant 
information, the Committee concluded that it could recommend to the 
Board that the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, 
balanced and understandable. 41 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
2. Internal controls and key risks
The Audit Committee receives reports at each meeting from Compliance 
and Risk, as well as Internal Audit.  The Committee challenged the 
key executives on the content and veracity of those reports and the 
Committee has been satisfied that appropriate arrangements, actions or 
mitigating controls are in place. Topics addressed this year included:
• The project to upgrade and enhance our IT operating platform 
• IT security, including cyber risk
• Considering the impact of the website outage experienced due to 
exceptionally high volumes of activity during the Royal Mail IPO and 
resulting lessons learned
• Monitoring CASS and client money reports
• Reviewing the Risk Management arrangements including the 
assessment of the top ten key risks, potential impact and resulting 
actions.
3. Effectiveness of Internal Audit
The Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities 
relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit 
department. Internal Audit presents its plans for audit, using a risk based 
approach, to the Committee twice a year for prioritisation and approval. 
The Internal Audit charter can be found on our website at www.hl.co.uk.
Having conducted a review of the Internal Audit department the 
Committee is happy with both its resources and plans. The Institute of 
Internal Auditors recommend that an external review of the Internal 
Audit function is carried out no less than every five years.  Our Internal 
Audit function had a satisfactory external review carried out in May 
2012.
The Audit Committee met with the Head of Internal Audit privately 
this year in order to discuss any matters directly in the absence of 
management.
4. Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor 
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Group’s policy on external 
audit.  The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the 
independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory 
requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility to 
the Chief Financial Officer.  The policy states that the external auditor is 
jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the 
Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Group’s policy on external audit can be found on the Group’s 
website at www.hl.co.uk and it is regularly reviewed to ensure that the 
independence and objectivity of our external auditors is maintained.  
It sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external 
auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject 
to de minimis levels and Audit Committee Chairman approval. The 
policy establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or 
former employees of the external auditors and for the recruitment of 
our employees by them. The policy further states that our external 
auditor may only be used for non-audit work where there are specific 
circumstances which mean they are the only firm able to provide a good 
service at an acceptable price. There were no non-audit fees during 
2014 (2013: £nil).  Fees for the audit for 2014 were £118,000 (2013: 
£116,000).   There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting 
the Group’s choice of external auditor and the external auditor has 
confirmed to the Committee that they remain independent.
As flagged in our 2013 Annual Report, following a competitive tender 
process carried out in 2013, PwC replaced Deloitte as our external 
auditor for the current financial year onwards with engagement terms 
settled by the Committee. The tender process included assessing 
the auditor’s audit approach and delivery, the composition of the 
engagement team, audit quality and fees and terms. As part of this 
evaluation the Audit Committee assessed the independence, objectivity 
and compliance with ethical and regulatory standards.
Reflecting the fact that 2014 was both the external auditor’s and the 
Committee Chairman’s first year, there was continuous engagement 
with PwC. The focus was on examining their audit plans, discussing 
PwC’s approach to materiality, and discussing their observations at 
each Audit Committee since their appointment. The plans reflected 
those outlined as part of the tender process and they adhered to the 
standards we assessed them against at that time.  The Audit Committee 
met with the external auditor privately this year in order to discuss any 
matters directly with the Senior Engagement Partner in the absence of 
management. 
The Committee is satisfied with the performance and effectiveness of 
PwC and has concluded that PwC continues to display the necessary 
attributes of independence and objectivity.
The external auditor will be asked to attend the AGM and will be 
available to answer shareholders questions about the audit and their 
report found on page 59.
Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Shirley Garrood
Chairman of the Audit Committee
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder,
I was delighted to be appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
following the retirement from the Board of Jonathan Bloomer.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s 2014 Directors Remuneration Report reflects the 
new reporting requirements arising from regulations introduced by the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and the requirements of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013.  The report is split into two sections:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Remuneration Policy’ or 
‘Policy’), which sets out Hargreaves Lansdown’s proposed policy for 
Directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc (Executive Directors and Non-
Executive Directors collectively known as ‘Directors‘) and which will be 
subject to a binding shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) on 24 October 2014. It is the intention of the Committee that 
this Policy will be in effect for three years from the date of approval and 
subject to periodic review during its operation to ensure it continues to 
align with the Company’s mission statement and business objectives.
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, which details the payments 
made to Directors and explains the link between group performance 
and remuneration for the 2013/14 financial year (the ‘Annual Report 
on Remuneration’).  This will be subject to an advisory shareholder 
vote at this year’s AGM.
The Committee noted the year to 30 June 2014 was characterised by 
continued growth, substantial new asset and client flows into Hargreaves 
Lansdown’s services, and successful adoption of extensive regulatory 
change the most significant of which being the FCA’s Retail Distribution 
Annual Statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Review.  Record growth in net new business and clients was achieved.  
Net new business was up by 25% to £6.4 billion and we welcomed 
144,000 net new clients.  Assets under administration increased by 29% 
and profit before tax was a record £209.8 million.    
The Committee’s considered view was that 2014 had been a good year for 
Hargreaves Lansdown, with excellent new asset and client attraction, and 
the decisions on variable remuneration should reflect both this but also the 
drag effect on profit growth of the low interest rate environment.  Whilst 
interest rates are beyond management’s control, in the short term they 
have led to reduced margins on cash balances which meant profit growth 
lagged growth in clients and assets.  Therefore the Executive Director’s 
bonus pool for 2014 was slightly reduced compared to 2013.
OBJECTIVES
Hargreaves Lansdown’s remuneration practices are designed to promote 
the long term success of the company by supporting the business strategy 
and we believe that this is best done by motivating and retaining our 
talented employees. Our new Remuneration Policy (subject to shareholder 
vote) is a minor evolution from existing practice.  The Policy establishes 
the purpose and principles underlying the structure of the remuneration 
package for Directors and how the Group links remuneration to the 
achievements of sustained high performance and long term value creation. 
Furthermore whilst placing significant weight on performance, our overall 
remuneration package aligns the long-term interests of Executive Directors 
with those of our shareholders and other stakeholders by incentivising the 
growth in the value of the business over the long term.
The Policy is steered by the following key principles:
• Attract and retain Directors of the calibre needed to maintain the 
Group’s position as a market leading financial services company;
• Reward Executive Directors for enhancing shareholder value and 
acting in the long-term interests of  the Group;
• Pay a market competitive total remuneration package; 
• Provide significant performance related opportunity for variable 
remuneration;
• Achieve long-term retention through direct share ownership and 
long-term incentives and;
• Provide a modest provision for retirement with the opportunity to 
contribute more through salary and/or bonus sacrifice.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the structure of the 
remuneration package incentivises inappropriate risk taking.
OUTLINE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Hargreaves Lansdown provides a simple remuneration package 
Christopher D. 
Barling
Chairman of the 
Remuneration 
Committee 43 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
consisting of base salary; annual bonus and long term incentive plan in 
addition to the same benefits package and salary sacrifice arrangements 
that are available to all employees of the Group. 
The annual bonus is partly paid immediately in cash and part is deferred 
into shares and/or cash for three years and is subject to a malus 
provision (explained in more detail below); the long term incentive plan 
provides share options that vest after three years, subject to formal 
performance conditions and also subject to malus. There is also a 
minimum shareholding requirement.
The total bonus pool is capped as a proportion of profit before tax which 
establishes a clear link between rewards to shareholders and to both 
Executive Directors and senior management within the Group.  Individual 
payments to Executive Directors are capped as a percentage of base salary.
A relatively high proportion of remuneration is paid in the form of bonus. 
The period for the deferral of 30% of bonus, the performance period for 
the long term incentive scheme and the period over which malus can be 
applied is three years. Hargreaves Lansdown’s current business model 
ensures that profit is quickly translated into cash and as a result the 
Remuneration Committee deems that these policies and timescales are 
appropriate.
ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE 12 MONTHS TO 30 JUNE 2014
The 12 months to 30 June 2014 was very busy for the Remuneration 
Committee with an extensive programme of work completed, including:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Report in the 2013 annual report was 
reviewed, with consideration given to all of the feedback received 
from institutional shareholders.
• The performance conditions for the Executive Directors Share Option 
Plan (LTIP) were set and the level of awards to be made to each 
Executive Director in respect of performance for the year ended 30 
June 2013 under the LTIP were determined.
• The base salary levels and performance bonuses for the Executive 
Directors were reviewed and agreed, and salary levels for other 
senior management and FCA Remuneration Code Staff were 
reviewed. 
• The Remuneration Code Staff disclosure was also reviewed and 
agreed.
• In the light of changing legislation and best practice and the need to 
ensure alignment with the proposed new Remuneration Policy all 
Directors contracts were reviewed and will be amended.
• The Remuneration Policy was developed and approved to be put 
forward to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 24 October 2014.
• The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed by 
the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee remained 
effective throughout the year.
• No discretion was exercised by the Committee in respect of any 
remuneration for Directors.
The key challenge for the year was complying with new legislation while 
continuing to reinforce the Hargreaves Lansdown culture that has led to 
the success of recent years.
TAKING ACCOUNT OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
We were delighted that last year’s remuneration report received a 
favourable vote of 92.8% from shareholders. 
In the previous period we met with a number of large shareholders to 
determine their views on our approach to remuneration. This year has 
seen much less change to our remuneration policy.   As a result, whilst 
we have consulted with our largest shareholders this year on executive 
remuneration matters, the level of consultation has been lower than 
last year. 
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
Our Remuneration Policy is already well embedded and has been 
successful over several years as has been seen in the business results.  
The Committee has determined that the relationship between bonus 
and fixed elements of remuneration has become unbalanced, which has 
raised some issues in recruitment and retention across the business. 
As a result we will be increasing base salaries and relatively reducing 
bonuses across the entire group. We are applying this principle to senior 
management (directors of the subsidiary companies) this year but have 
decided to leave Executive Directors salaries unchanged.
The overall average levels of total remuneration are not expected to 
change other than due to varying business performance.
Peter Hargreaves’ nominal salary has been adjusted to reflect the 
increased hours he has been working.
COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND BEST PRACTICE
New legislation has required the production of our new Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration. Hargreaves 
Lansdown had already made significant changes to our approach to 
remuneration in the last few years and I am pleased to report that the new 
Policy largely documents existing practices with the commercial elements 
unchanged. This report has been prepared in accordance with the provision 
of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies 
and Groups Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the UK 
Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Remuneration Committee confirms throughout the financial year that 
the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice 
provision.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding vote and will 
take effect immediately after the AGM if it is approved by shareholders. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration is subject to an advisory vote.
I would like to commend both reports to our shareholders.
Christopher D. Barling
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Committee presents the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (Policy) 
for the Hargreaves Lansdown plc (Group) as set by the Remuneration 
Committee (Committee) for all Company directors (‘Directors‘). This 
will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). The Policy will take effect immediately following the AGM of 24 
October 2014 and is consistent with the arrangements in place from the 
start of the 2014 financial year. It is the intention of the Committee that 
this Policy will be in effect for three years from the date of approval and 
subject to periodic review during its operation to ensure it continues to 
align with the Company’s mission statement and business objectives.
The Company’s Policy is designed such that each component of 
remuneration works in unison with the others to form an overall package 
which will attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre required 
to run a group of the scale and complexity of Hargreaves Lansdown. For 
Executive Directors, packages are provided which are weighted towards 
performance with measures which reflect individual and corporate 
performance over a one and three year time horizon.
The Policy is divided into separate sections for Executive and Non-
Executive Directors.  The remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
Chairman is set by the Committee under delegated powers from the 
Board. The Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration is set by the Chairman 
and Chief Executive. No Director plays a role in setting their own 
remuneration.
1) Policy applying to the Executive Directors of the Company
Component / Purpose 
and link to strategy
Operation and performance measures Maximum 
Opportunity
Base Salary 
To attract and retain 
high performing 
individuals, considering 
both the market 
value of the position 
and the individual’s 
skills, experience and 
performance.
The Committee will review each Director’s Base Salary annually and will consider each 
individual’s performance and progress taking into account the scope and nature of their 
role, their ability and their experience. 
The base salary will also be set with reference to mid-market levels and to remuneration 
within the Group as well as appropriate comparator companies.  
Salary increases are usually effective from 1 July.
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase.
Factors considered 
when determining any 
increase to Base Salary 
will include individual 
performance and any 
changes in roles or 
responsibilities.  The 
Committee will also 
consider increases 
across the wider senior 
management team.
Annual Performance 
Bonus
To reward achievement 
of the Group’s business 
plan, key performance 
indicators and the 
personal contribution of 
Directors. To align the 
interests of Directors with 
those of shareholders.
The level of Performance Bonus payable is linked to key financial metrics as well as 
individual, departmental and corporate performance against objectives.
Bonus awards to Directors are made from the Directors’ annual performance aggregate 
bonus pool (which also provides for bonuses for the wider senior management team). 
The size of the aggregate bonus pool is established taking account the Group’s key 
performance indicators for the relevant financial year such as underlying profit before tax, 
operating margin, underlying earnings per share, quality of customer service provided, 
corporate governance, compliance with regulatory requirements and risk management 
along with making some allowance for impacts on profit outside of management’s control 
such as market and interest rate movements. The Committee considers each individual 
Director’s performance against his or her personal objectives to ensure that awards are 
made where performance so merits.
30% of the Annual Performance Bonus is subject to compulsory deferral for a period of 
three years.  It may be deferred into deferred share awards and / or deferred cash awards 
at each Director’s discretion, subject to each Director maintaining the required minimum 
shareholding. Dividend alternatives will accrue on deferred share awards and will be paid 
at the time of vesting.
To the extent that the minimum shareholding is not yet held, the Director must defer into 
share awards.
At the discretion of the Committee, the immediately payable element of the Annual 
Performance Bonus may be paid as cash and/or as an additional employer pension 
contribution.
Any unvested deferred awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
The aggregate bonus 
pool is capped at 
5% of Profit Before 
Tax for that year. The 
maximum bonus 
opportunity for 
Directors under the 
Policy is five times base 
salary for the reward 
period. 45 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Long term incentive plan 
To align the interests 
of Directors with those 
of shareholders and to 
reward growth of the 
long-term value of the 
business.
Annual awards of market value share options will vest after 3 years subject to 
continuing employment and to the extent that performance tests are met over the 3 
year performance period. The awards are subject to up to three performance conditions 
including one profit related and up to two business performance indicators.
In respect of each performance condition, which are set by the Committee prior to the 
grant of the award, performance below the minimum threshold results in zero vesting.  
Vesting of each performance condition starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of 
performance between the minimum and maximum targets.
Any unvested awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
The maximum award 
each year under the 
Policy is two and a half 
times base salary.
Shareholding Guideline
To align the interests 
of management and 
shareholders in the 
success of the Group.
Directors have six years from appointment to achieve a shareholding with a minimum 
value of two times base salary with a minimum goal of one times after three years 
assessed on 30 June of each year.
Not applicable.
Pension
To provide adequate 
pension saving 
arrangements for 
Directors and staff.
Pension provision is provided in line with the pension provision for all staff.   
Any changes made to the staff arrangements will be carried across to the Directors.
The Committee may amend the form of any Director’s pension arrangements in response 
to changing pension legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does 
not increase the cost to the Company of a Director’s pension provision by any greater 
percentage than the increase to the provision for all other staff.
All staff and Directors may waive an element of their Annual Performance Bonus in return 
for a corresponding employer’s contribution into their pension.
The Committee reserves the right to pay a cash allowance in place of an employer 
pension contribution where a Director has reached the Lifetime Allowance.
Current policy for 
all staff pensions is 
defined contribution 
with an employer 
contribution of a 
maximum of 4% of 
base salary.   Any 
contribution paid as a 
result of waiver of the 
cash element of an 
Annual Performance 
Bonus will not be 
counted towards the 
4% maximum.
Benefits 
An ‘across the board’ 
benefits package is 
available to both staff and 
Directors alike.
All eligible staff and Directors may take up a range of benefits.
Where costs are necessarily incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of the 
company, those costs will be reimbursed in full e.g. travel, accommodation, subsistence, 
relocation, and any tax and social costs arising.
Provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional holiday, 
childcare vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary sacrifice 
mechanism.
Group life insurance and Group PHI is provided to all staff with greater than 6 months 
continuous service.
All eligible staff (as defined by the scheme rules and which includes Executive Directors) 
may participate in the Save As You Earn scheme or Share Incentive Plan. 
Appropriate director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the company.
The maximum value 
of benefits will depend 
on the cost of the 
provision of those 
benefits.
There are a number 
of variables and 
unknowns impacting 
the maximum payable 
in the event of 
relocation; however, 
the Committee would 
pay no more than is 
necessary in such 
situations.
b) Special arrangements for founding Executive Director
The cap on annual performance bonus in relation to basic salary will not apply to Peter Hargreaves due to the nominal value of his base salary, 
although the absolute value of his bonus in any year will not exceed that of the Chief Executive.  Mr Hargreaves is also not subject to the compulsory 
deferral of any element of his annual performance bonus.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Component / Purpose Operation
Basic fee
To attract and retain high performing 
individuals, considering both the market 
value of the position and the individual’s 
skills, experience and performance.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Director’s basic fees are reviewed annually by those responsible as outlined earlier.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 July.
The fee levels are set taking into account market data for comparable positions taking account of the time commitment required for the role. 
All Non-Executive Director’s fees including those below are paid in cash, on a quarterly basis.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension, or to participate in any Group employee share plan.
Committee Chairman fees 
To recognise the additional time 
commitment and responsibility involved in 
chairing a Committee of the Board.
Each Non-Executive Director receives an additional fee for each Committee for which they are Chairman.
The Committee Chairman fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in chairing a committee of the board, including time spent in 
preparation and liaising with management, and the time spent attending and preparing for a committee of the board.
Senior Independent Director (SID) fee 
To recognise the additional time 
commitment and responsibility involved 
holding the role of the SID.
The SID receives an additional fee for his role.
The fee reflects the additional time and responsibility in fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director.
Benefits and Expenses 
To appropriately reimburse the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Director for out of 
pocket expenses incurred in the fulfilment 
of their responsibilities and any tax and 
social costs arising.
Expenses may be claimed by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in line with the Company’s expenses policy.
Appropriate director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the company.
Reduced share dealing fees, in line with those charged for all other employees.
No other benefits are made available to Non-Executive Directors.
c) Policy applying to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors of the Company
The maximum aggregate remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set in accordance with the Articles of Association.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS
All Executive Directors have a service contract and the Non-Executive Directors are contracted under a letter of appointment. Both will reflect the 
approved policy in force at the time of appointment. The service contracts and the letters of appointment for all Directors in post are available 
for viewing (on the giving of reasonable notice) at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the Annual General 
Meeting. Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Our policy is that service contracts do not have a specific duration but may be terminated with 12 months’ notice from the Company or the 
Executive Director.
The service contracts contain no provision for liquidated damages for compensation on termination, except for those set out in the table below. The 
service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions but these are at the Company’s 
sole discretion.
The Committee has a policy framework for payments for loss of office by an Executive Director, both in relation to the service contract and incentive 
pay, which is summarised below. The approach of the Company on any termination is to consider all relevant circumstances, including the recent 
performance of the Executive Director, and to act in accordance with any relevant rules or contractual provisions.
Nature of termination: By Executive Director or Com-
pany giving notice (excluding 
special circumstances).
By Company summarily. Good leaver: leaving by reason of death, ill health, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement with the agreement of the Committee, the sale of employing business 
or company, or other special circumstances at the discretion of the Committee. 
Base salary, pension and 
benefits
Paid until employment ceases. Paid until employment ceases. Paid until employment ceases or for notice period (subject to mitigation) 
depending on the reason for cessation.  
Discretion for Company to pay salary, pension and benefits in a single payment or 
in monthly instalments. 
Annual bonus No entitlement to annual 
bonus for that financial year.
No entitlement to annual 
bonus for that financial year.
Cessation during the financial year or after the financial year end, but before 
payment date, may result in bonus being payable subject to performance 
(pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked unless the Committee 
determines otherwise). 47 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
PROVISIONS ON A TAKEOVER AND OTHER CORPORATE EVENTS
In the event of a takeover or other corporate event, the Committee shall 
determine the amount  (if any) of any bonus payable taking into account 
any applicable performance targets that have been achieved and any 
such factors as it considers appropriate given the curtailed performance 
period.
Deferred bonus awards and outstanding LTIP awards will vest at that 
time subject to satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions 
and pro-rated to reflect the length of the Performance Period which has 
been worked (with the Committee having discretion not to pro-rate or to 
reduce the pro-rate if it considers it appropriate to do so). Alternatively 
the Committee may determine with the agreement of the acquiring 
company that awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in 
another company.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) letters of 
appointment cover the terms of their appointment, including the 
time commitment expected. Each appointment is for an initial fixed 
term of three years from the commencement date subject to election 
by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment and annual re-election thereafter.
Either party may terminate the appointment upon three calendar months 
written notice and the Company may do so with immediate effect 
subject to a payment in lieu of notice.  Should termination arise as a 
result of a resolution of shareholders in general meeting, or as a result 
of a failure to be re-appointed by the shareholders, NEDs will not be 
entitled to receive any fees in respect of any period after the termination 
date. No compensation is payable on termination, other than for accrued 
fees and expenses.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
The Committee will set a remuneration package for new Executive 
Directors determining the individual elements of the package and 
the total package taking account of the skills and experience of the 
candidate, the market rate, and remuneration levels across the Group, 
respecting maximum levels for variable pay referred to in the appropriate 
policy table.                          
Additional cash and/or share based awards on a one-off basis may be 
made as deemed appropriate by the Committee if the circumstances 
require taking into account pay or benefits forfeited by a Director on 
leaving a previous employer. The Committee has the discretion to 
make such awards under the LTIP and in excess of the LTIP salary limit 
or as permitted under Rule 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules (which allows 
companies to make one off share awards in exceptional circumstances, 
including recruitment). Such awards will, as far as possible, maintain 
consistency with the awards forfeited in terms of type of reward (shares 
or cash), expected value, time horizons and whether they were subject 
to performance criteria. Other payments may be made for relocation 
expenses, recruitment from abroad, legal costs, other costs or benefits 
forfeited by an individual being recruited. None of these payments made 
on new appointments will be deemed to be taken from the bonus pool. 
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the 
Committee will set the fee level consistent with the approved policy at 
the time of appointment having due regard to remuneration paid for 
comparable positions taking account of the time commitment required 
for the role.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS
For the avoidance of doubt, this Directors’ Remuneration Policy includes 
authority for the Group to honour any commitments entered into before 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy came into effect.
CHANGES IN LEGISLATION OR REGULATION
Authority is given for the Group to comply with all prevailing legislation 
and statutory regulation both current and future, making the minimum 
changes to policy in order to so comply. 
PAY MODELLING AND PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION
The Committee will disclose each year in the Group’s annual report a bar 
chart that models the potential remuneration for each of the Executive 
Directors for the forthcoming year using a range of assumptions.  The 
chart will show the potential value of the current Executive Directors’ 
remuneration for the forthcoming year for three scenarios; ‘minimum’, 
‘maximum’ and ‘middle scenario’:
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred bonus award Deferred bonus awards lapse 
when employment ceases.
Deferred bonus awards lapse 
when employment ceases. 
Vested unexercised, and unvested deferred bonus awards, may vest and be 
exercised in accordance with normal terms. 
Committee has discretion to determine awards which vest when employment 
ceases.
LTIP awards Vested unexercised, and 
unvested long-term incentive 
awards lapse when employ-
ment ceases.
Vested unexercised, and 
unvested long-term incentive 
awards lapse when employ-
ment ceases.
Awards vest in accordance with original terms or, Committee may determine 
awards to vest early subject to performance at the date when employment 
ceases. In either case Committee will pro-rate award to reflect performance period 
that has been worked, except in the case of serious ill health or death when no 
pro-rating will apply. 
Other payments None. None. Possible disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement services and the cost of 
a settlement agreement. 48  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
• The minimum amount represents the unconditional components of 
the remuneration package: salary, pension and employee benefits. 
• The mid-point amount is the amount the Executive Director will 
receive if they attain at least half of their objectives for the period. It 
will include both fixed and variable components of remuneration. The 
variable will reflect performance achieved during the year. 
• The maximum level is the maximum amount of remuneration each 
Executive Director can be awarded in the year. The maximum is 
subject to the remuneration caps that have been established for each 
component.  
The bar chart uses the maximum share price growth assumption of 30% 
growth over a three year period for the calculation of the potential value 
of the LTIP award.  
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES
All employees across the Group are subject to the same process in 
respect of annual salary reviews.  Consideration is given to the scope of 
each role, the level of experience, responsibility, progress in role, and pay 
levels for similar roles in comparable companies.  The performance and 
potential of the individual is also considered.
All permanent employees are considered for an annual performance 
bonus with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.  All 
eligible employees (under the rules of the scheme) may also participate 
in the Group’s Save As You Earn and Share Incentive Plans and senior 
staff may also be awarded share options under the Group’s Company 
Share Option Plan or Executive Share Option Plan where they have 
displayed exceptional performance.
EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS
The Company recognises that external Non-Executive Directorships are 
beneficial to both the Director and the Company and that its Executive 
Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other 
companies.  Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and 
knowledge which can benefit the Company.  Subject to approval by the 
Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept a maximum of two 
non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that 
appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
CONSULTATION WITH EMPLOYEES
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees in 
respect of the Directors’ remuneration, it does consider the wider salary 
increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions across 
the wider employee population when setting the remuneration policy for 
Directors.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Committee recognises that Director remuneration is an area of 
particular interest to our shareholders and in setting and considering 
changes to remuneration it is critical that we listen to and take into 
account their views. 
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to 
the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.  This feedback, 
as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings 
with shareholders, is then considered as part of the Company’s annual 
review of the remuneration policy. We also regularly engage with our 
largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which 
exist on remuneration issues. When any material changes are made to 
the Policy, the Committee will discuss these in advance with our major 
shareholders wherever practical. The Committee will also consult with 
professional advisors to ensure we consider current market and industry 
practices, where appropriate. 
£3,500,000
£3,000,000
£2,500,000
£2,000,000
£1,500,000
£1,000,000
£500,000
Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor Peter Hargreaves
Minimum
Mid
Maximum
Minimum
Mid
Maximum
Minimum
Mid
Maximum
LTIP Annual bonus Fixed
100 28 15 100 39 15 95
100
11
14
11
11
74
74
61
47
(Numbers in chart represent percentage of total)
ILLUSTRATION OF 2014 POTENTIAL REMUNERATION 49 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Annual Report on Remuneration
The Directors Remuneration Report also encompasses the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee’s statement.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The Committee has put the Directors’ Remuneration Policy into practice 
recognising that achieving the appropriate balance and determining a 
fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration involves 
judgement. In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay 
data at similar size and scale companies operating in similar sectors. 
However, these do not determine what remuneration the Company 
offers but rather set a ‘context’ within which an individual’s rewards will 
be positioned. In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken 
into account are the challenges the individual faces in their role, and their 
ability, experience and performance.
HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WILL BE APPLIED FOR YEAR 
ENDING 30 JUNE 2015
Details of how the Policy will be applied in the coming year are set out 
below.
Executive Directors salaries
The Executive Director’s base salaries were reviewed in June 2014. 
In reviewing base salaries the Committee takes into account salaries 
elsewhere across the Group, relevant market data and information 
on remuneration practice in a comparator group of companies in the 
financial sector. Historically, Executive Directors’ base salaries have been 
set well below the market median.
Since the Chief Executive took office, the company’s sales have grown by 
98%, the company’s profit by 142% and the share price by 217%, during 
which time we have become an established member of the FTSE 100. 
During the same period, the Chief Executive’s base salary has remained 
unchanged. Despite this, the Committee decided not to increase the 
salary of Ian Gorham, Chief Executive.  Tracey Taylor, CFO, received a 
significant rise in the prior year and the Committee decided that her 
salary would remain unchanged.
The Committee decided that the nominal salary of Peter Hargreaves 
should be increased to reflect his additional working hours. 
The base salary figures in the above table are the reference base salaries 
of the Executive Director before any salary sacrifice or exchange into 
pension or other benefits. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration
The Non-Executive Director fees include a base fee of £50,000 which 
includes membership of the various committees. There are additional 
fees for the senior independent director role (£12,500) and for chairing 
committees (Remuneration £12,500, Audit £25,000). Fees have 
increased in 2015 reflecting additional work, more onerous restrictions 
on Non-Executive Directors arising from CRD IV legislation and an 
imbalance versus market rates. Details of the membership of the 
committees are given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 30 
to 35.     
Executive Director’s annual bonus for the year ending 30 June 2015
The size of the bonus pool will be determined by the Committee based 
on performance of the Group against a number of financial measures. 
The relevant measures and the Committee’s assessment of performance 
will be reported in a similar way to the 2014 bonus pool assessment, see 
below. The bonus pool covers both Executive Directors and the wider 
senior management team and will be capped at a maximum of 5% of 
profit before tax as per the Policy.
Similarly, each individual Executive Director’s performance and that 
of the senior management team will be considered by the Committee 
against objectives to ensure that allocation of the pool is consistent with 
individual performance. The bonuses awarded to Executive Directors will 
be constrained to a maximum cap of five times salary as per the Policy, 
and will be reported in a similar way to the 2014 bonus, see below.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) in the year 
will be constrained to a maximum of two and a half times base salary. 
The awards will be subject to two to three performance conditions 
which will relate to earnings per share (EPS), net new business flows 
and a possible third measure. The Committee, whilst generally content 
with LTIP performance conditions used in previous years, is currently 
considering how client satisfaction might be further incorporated 
into future rewards.  If an appropriate measure can be determined 
the Committee intends to enhance the LTIP performance conditions 
with it. Currently client satisfaction is reflected in the measure of net 
new business and clients, requiring both attraction of new clients and 
retention of existing clients through good service.  The EPS target and 
quality of client satisfaction target, if used, will be disclosed for the 
year in which the initial awards are made and other targets will be fully 
disclosed retrospectively.
Name of director Salary as at 1st  
July 2014 (£)
Salary as at 1st 
July 2013 (£)
% increase
Ian Gorham 450,000 450,000 0%
Tracey Taylor 350,000 350,000 0%
Peter Hargreaves 10,000 2,000 310%
1
Emoluments for Shirley Garrood for 2014 are shown for the 8 months following her appointment 
to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of director 2015 Fees (£) 2014 Fees (£)
Michael Evans 152,500 152,500
Chris Barling 75,000 56,216
Dharmash Mistry 50,000 42,500
Stephen Robertson 50,000 42,500
Shirley Garrood
1
75,000 36,006 50  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Name of director Year Fees/
Basic 
salary 
£’000
Benefits 
(non 
taxable) 
£’000
Pension, 
including salary 
sacrifice £’000
Cash 
bonus 
£’000
Deferred 
element of 
bonus £’000
Gain on 
historic 
options 
vesting 
£’000
Amounts 
received on 
crystallisation 
of JSOP award 
£’000
Totals 
£’000
Ian Gorham 2014 412 1 49 1,080 270 8,796 - 10,608
2013 412 1 49 1,348 150 1,438 3,355 6,753
Tracey Taylor 2014 285 4 59 468 117 220 - 1,153
2013 208 4 46 617 69 - 4,474 5,418
Peter Hargreaves 2014 10 - - - - - - 10
2013 1 - - 250 - - - 251
Remuneration payable for the 2014 financial year (1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014) (Audited)
The remuneration received by Executive Directors in relation to performance in 2014 is set out below.
Under the ‘Gain on historic options vesting’, amounts shown include 
share schemes without performance criteria which have been exercised 
during the period with the amount being the gain received by the 
Director at date of exercise, and for schemes with performance criteria, 
best estimate of amounts to be paid in respect of performance periods 
concluding at the date of the end of the reporting period. No share 
options without performance criteria have been granted to Executive 
Directors since 07/03/2012.  
The base salary figures in the above table are the reference base salaries 
of the Executive Director after any salary sacrifice or exchange into 
pension or other benefits.  Bonuses are shown after any waiver the 
Director made in respect of additional Employer pension contributions.
The remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors in 2014 is set out 
below.
Non-Executive Directors received no other taxable benefits or other 
remuneration other than reimbursement of all reasonable and properly 
documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses incurred in the 
performance of their duties and the benefit of officers’ liability insurance.
Chris Barling’s fees increased during the period. The increase reflects 
the additional responsibilities in relation to taking on the roles of Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Annual bonus for the year ending 30 June 2014 (Audited)
The size of the bonus pool was determined based on performance 
against a number of financial measures. The relevant measures and the 
Committee’s assessment of performance are as shown below:
The Committee’s considered view was whilst 2014 had been a strong 
year overall, the results were not quite as strong as previous years (for 
many very valid reasons, including those outside of management’s 
control) and decided that the total bonus pool for 2014 should be 2.42% 
of profit before tax as compared to 3.53% for the previous year (noting 
that the pool includes provision for the wider senior management team 
where the population was one less than for the previous year). 
The Committee individually considers each Director’s performance 
and that of the senior management team against objectives to ensure 
allocation of the pool is consistent with individual performance. 
Non-Executive Directors 
and Chairman
2014 Fees 
(£)
2013 Fees 
(£)
Michael Evans, Chairman 152,500 152,500
Chris Barling 56,216 42,500
Dharmash Mistry 42,500 42,500
Stephen Robertson 42,500 42,500
Shirley Garrood
1
36,006 -
Jonathan Bloomer
2
22,596 66,767
Stephen Lansdown
3
- 11,954
1
Emoluments for Shirley Garrood for 2014 are shown for the 8 months following her appointment 
to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
2
Emoluments for Jonathan Bloomer for 2014 are shown for the 4 months up to his resignation to 
the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
3
Emoluments for Stephen Lansdown for 2013 are shown for the 4 months up to his resignation to 
the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Key
Significantly ahead of expectations ****
Ahead of expectations ***
At or around expectations **
Below expectations *
Profit 
before 
tax
Net new 
business
Net new 
clients
Opertating profit 
margin (on net 
revenue)
Results £209.8m £6.4bn 144,000 71.3%
Committee’s 
assessment
** *** **** ** 51 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Ian Gorham
Objective Committee’s assessment
Delivery of revised business model post RDR ***
Growth in net new business and clients ***
Operational excellence **
Tracey Taylor
Objective Committee’s assessment
Development of post RDR pricing model ***
Robust financial control ***
Optimise cash returns **
Keeping company and client cash safe ***
The resulting bonuses for the year ending 30 June 2014 were:
Cash £’000 Deferred £’000 Total £’000 % of cap
Ian Gorham 1,080 270 1,350 60%
Tracey Taylor 468 117 585 33.4%
Peter Hargreaves Nil Nil Nil Nil
There were no bonus waivers into pension in 2014, these will be noted in future years if applicable.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DEFERRAL OF ANNUAL PERFORMANCE BONUSES 
As disclosed last year the requirement for 30% of all performance bonuses to be waived in favour of deferred awards is being phased in over 3 years. 
In line with previously stated intentions 20% of the annual performance bonuses is deferred for the current year.
The deferred awards will ordinarily be in the form of shares on which dividends (or dividend equivalents) are earned. However, providing the Director 
satisfies the minimum shareholding target with reference to base salary, the option is given for deferred awards to be either in shares on which 
dividends (or dividend equivalents) are earned or in cash on which no interest will be earned, or a mixture of shares and cash.  The right to exercise 
deferred awards will vest after three years provided the individual remains employed by the Hargreaves Lansdown Group.
For additional information, the history of the performance measures and the bonus pool for the last five years is:
Measure 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Profit before tax (“PBT”) £209.8m £195.2m £152.8m £126.0m £86.3m
Net new business £6.4bn £5.1bn £3.2bn £3.5bn £3.3bn
Net new clients 144,000 76,000 45,000 50,000 48,000
Net operating margin (on net revenue) 71.3% 71.5% 67.8% 64.7% 58.0%
Bonus pool as % of PBT 2.42% 3.53% 3.75% 3.74% 1.59%
VESTING OF LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 30 JUNE 2014 (AUDITED)
A total of 1,300,000 market value share options were exercised by Ian Gorham in the year. Tracey Taylor exercised 15,355 market value share options in 
the year.  There were no performance conditions attached to these awards which were granted before the Long Term Incentive Plan was introduced in 2012.
LTIP AWARDS MADE DURING THE YEAR ENDING 30 JUNE 2014 (AUDITED)
In respect of performances of the Executive Directors during the year ended 30 June 2013, the Remuneration Committee made awards under the  
LTIP on 17 February 2014.  Each Director received an award of 50,000 share options (the face value of these awards being 148% of base salary for 
Ian Gorham and 190% of base salary for Tracey Taylor).  These awards are well within the maximum levels permitted by the rules of the Plan. 
Name of 
director
Type 
of 
award
Market value of 
maximum award at 
date of grant
Share price on 
date of grant
(exercise price)
Number of shares 
over which the 
award was granted
Face value 
of award 
Fair value 
at date of 
grant
1
% of face value 
that would vest 
at threshold
Performance 
period determining 
vesting
Ian Gorham LTIP Two and a half times 
salary – £1,125,000
£13.29 50,000 £664,500 - 25% 1 July 2013 – 
30 Jun 2016
Tracey Taylor LTIP Two and a half times 
salary – £875,000
£13.29 50,000 £664,500 - 25% 1 July 2013 – 
30 Jun 2016
Peter Hargreaves None - -
1 
Fair value is calculated as the difference between market value and the exercise price at the date of grant 52  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
1
The precise targets for net new business inflows and net new clients are commercially sensitive 
and cannot be disclosed in full. The Committee will disclose the net new business inflow targets 
and the net new client targets (and performance against those targets) in the first remuneration 
report of the Company following the end of the performance period.
2
For earnings per share, the target is based on average undiluted basic EPS for each financial year 
in the performance period.
Performance conditions for the awards made under the Plan during the 
year ended 30 June 2014 were as follows, with the performance period 
commencing 1 July 2013:
Each target will have a threshold and maximum target set by the 
Committee. Provided the threshold is achieved, 25% of that part of the 
Option relating to that performance condition will vest, rising to vesting 
in full if the maximum target is met or exceeded. For performance 
between the minimum and maximum targets, the vesting will be pro-
rated on a straight line basis between 25% and 100%.
MALUS
A malus provision exists on unvested awards made under the LTIP 
and on the deferred element of annual Performance Bonuses.  These 
individual deferred awards may be reduced in whole or in part at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee in the event that in the 
opinion of the Remuneration Committee:
• there is found to be a material mis-statement of the financial 
performance on which annual Performance Bonuses were based;
• a serious regulatory problem comes to light;
• a Director, or an employee for which they are responsible, has 
done or has allowed to be done, something which has a serious 
detrimental effect on the reputation of the Company;
• a Director has not appropriately identified serious risks relevant to 
their business area, and/or implemented appropriate controls for 
identified serious risks.
The Committee deemed that none of these applied during the year.
OUTSTANDING SHARE OPTIONS AND SHARE AWARDS (AUDITED)
Below are details of outstanding share options and awards for Executive 
Directors:
Name of director Scheme Grant 
date
Exercise 
price £
Number of 
shares under 
option at 1 
July 2013
Number 
granted 
during 
year
Number 
vested 
during 
year
Number of 
shares under 
option at 30 
June 2014
End of 
performance 
period & 
vesting date
Performance 
period
Ian Gorham 2013 LTIP 17/02/14 13.29 - 50,000 - 50,000 30/06/16 2.5 years
2012 LTIP 02/01/13 6.87 60,000 - - 60,000 30/06/15 3 years
Deferred bonus 
options
17/02/14 nil - 16,865 - 16,865 30/06/17 2.5 years
Sharesave 29/03/12 3.65 4,109 - - 4,109 01/05/17 5 years
Exec Scheme 15/09/10 2.87 500,000 - 500,000 - 15/09/13 3 years
Exec Scheme 08/10/10 4.58 800,000 - 800,000 - 08/10/13 3 years
Tracey Taylor 2013 LTIP 17/02/14 13.29 - 50,000 - 50,000 30/06/16 2.5 years
2012 LTIP 02/01/13 6.87 60,000 - - 60,000 30/06/15 3 years
Deferred bonus 
options
17/02/14 nil - 7,713 - 7,713 30/06/17 2.5 years
Sharesave 28/09/08 1.75 2,373 - 2,373 - 27/09/13 5 years
Sharesave 29/03/12 3.65 3,090 - - 3,090 01/05/17 5 years
Sharesave 01/05/14 11.43 - 1,637 - 1,637 01/05/19 5 years
Exec Scheme 24/03/09 1.95 15,355 - 15,355 - 24/03/14 5 years
Peter Hargreaves None
Performance condition Percentage 
of award
Threshold Maximum
Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
2
1/3 36.6p 43.4p
Net new business inflows 1/3
1 1
Net new clients 1/3
1 1
Long Term Incentive Plan
The outstanding LTIP awards are subject to the same performance 
conditions, vesting rules and planned disclosure as documented in ‘LTIP 
awards made during the year ending 30 June 2014’ above, except that 
the threshold and maximum targets vary for those options granted in 
year ending 30 June 2013.
Sourcing shares
ABI guidelines on sourcing shares have been followed and, in line with 
the scheme rules, the Company has not issued shares under all employee 
schemes which, when aggregated with awards under all of the company’s 
other schemes, exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any 
rolling 10 year period. The Company has also not issued new shares under 
executive (discretionary) schemes which exceed 5% of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the company in any rolling 10 year period.  53 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS 
(AUDITED)
Executive Directors are required to accumulate minimum personal 
holdings in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares amounting to a value of 
two times base salary.  Executive Directors with less than six years’ 
service are required to hold a minimum of one times base salary.  Newly 
appointed Executive Directors will be given up to three years to comply 
with this requirement. 
All Executive Directors in the financial year currently own shares outright, 
at a level exceeding their required shareholding as described above 
based on a share price of £12.38 (being the closing price on 30 June 
2014). Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table:
Name of director Beneficially 
owned at 30 
June 2013
Beneficially 
owned at 30 
June 2014
Outstanding 
LTIP awards with 
performance 
conditions
Outstanding subject to 
continued employment, 
arising from deferred bonus
Shareholding 
guideline (multiple of 
salary)
Shareholding 
multiple of salary 
achieved at 30 June 
2014
Ian Gorham 282,628 332,628 110,000 20,974 Two times Over nine times
Tracey Taylor 745,641 763,369 110,000 12,440 Two times Over ten times
Peter Hargreaves 152,717,606 152,639,678 Two times Over ten times
As at 30 June 2014, the Non-Executive Directors held the following 
Hargreaves Lansdown shares:
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the 
Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive and the Company’s 
employees as a whole between the year ended 30 June 2013 and the 
year ended 30 June 2014.
Non-Executive Director Shares
Michael Evans 8,125
Chris Barling -
Dharmash Mistry 5,308
Stephen Robertson 9,890
Shirley Garrood -
Jonathan Bloomer (at date of resignation) 15,625
Salary Annual bonus
CEO % change 0% -10%
Employee % change +8.2% -13.2%
Benefits are provided on the same terms to Directors and all staff alike.
In determining director’s pay, the Committee considers comparison with the remuneration of all staff. There has been no formal consultation with 
employees in determining policy, although a staff survey was held during the year which has been a significant factor in examining the relationship 
between fixed and performance related pay. Note that the above figures show the difference in average pay for employees.
2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S TOTAL REMUNERATION
Outlined below is the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive in 2014. 
2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014
Peter Hargreaves Peter Hargreaves
2
Ian Gorham
3
Ian Gorham Ian Gorham Ian Gorham
Total Remuneration (£) 405,917 85,123 1,034,167 1,640,895 6,751,557 10,608,359
Annual Bonus as a percentage of maximum -
(Nil)
1
-
(£73,333)
1
-
(£666,667)
1
-
(£1,250,000)
1
-
(£1,500,000)
1
60%
(£1,350,000)
Shares vesting
4
 as a percentage of maximum Nil Nil Nil Nil 100% 100%
1
Prior to 2014, there was no individual cap on annual bonus payable, other than the overall bonus pool cap as a percentage of profit before tax.  Bonus figures shown are gross of any sacrifice into 
pension and before any compulsory deferral. 
2
Emoluments for Peter Hargreaves for 2011 are shown for the 2 months prior to date of his resignation from the role as CEO.
3
Emoluments for Ian Gorham for 2011 are shown for the 10 months following his appointment to the Board as a director.
4
Options vesting in 2014 and 2013 pre-dated the LTIP and therefore had no performance criteria. 54  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The graph opposite shows the Company’s performance measured 
by Total Shareholder Return (TSR), which is the capital growth and 
dividends paid. This is compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 
Financial Services Index for the last five years.
The graph shows the value of £100 invested in Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc shares on 1 July 2009 compared to the value if £100 invested in 
the FTSE 350 Financial Services Sector Index for each of our financial 
year ends to 30 June 2014.  We have chosen the FTSE 350 Financial 
Services Index as we believe it is the most appropriate comparator for 
benchmarking our cooperate performance over the five year period.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON REMUNERATION
The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Group in terms of 
total employee remuneration pay, profit before tax, and total dividends 
for this and the previous year. 
To aide comparison we have also detailed the percentage change 
between the years.
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
The company operates a SAYE share options scheme and Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) on the same terms for all employees. All employees are 
encouraged to become shareholders, both through direct ownership or 
through participation in share schemes.
PENSION
No Directors or staff participate in a defined benefit pension scheme. 
The Group operates its own Group Self Invested Personal Pension (the 
“GSIPP”).  The Company contributes 4% of base salary to the scheme 
which applies to Executive Directors and staff. Employees wishing to make 
personal contributions to the GSIPP can do so via ‘salary exchange’ or 
‘bonus waiver’ ensuring that they benefit from the maximum, immediate 
relief from income tax and National Insurance. Staff, Senior Management 
and Executive Directors may opt out of the scheme should they wish.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or broad 
policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Company 
and its subsidiaries as well as their performance management.  The policy 
is determined with due regard to the interests of the Company and the 
shareholders.  The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.  No 
Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.  
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice per year and is 
governed by formal Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually. 
The Remuneration Committee met four times during this financial year.  
The attendance by each director is set out in the table on page 33.  The 
Committee is chaired by Chris Barling and its other members at 30 June 
2014 were Michael Evans, Shirley Garrood and Dharmash Mistry.   Jonathan 
Bloomer chaired the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 25 
October 2013.  None of the Committee has any personal financial interest 
(other than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from cross-
directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee’s purpose is to:
• determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors of the Company and of the subsidiary companies;
• ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to attract, 
retain, and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the 
Company and the Group; and 
• monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The performance measurement of the Directors and key members of senior 
management and the determination of their annual remuneration packages 
are undertaken by the Committee.  The Committee also ensures that the 
remuneration relationship between the Directors and senior employees of 
the Company is appropriate and that the remuneration policy complies with 
the FCA Remuneration Code.  Any exceptional remuneration arrangements 
for senior employees are advised to the Committee.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
In finalising the Remuneration Report and Policy the Committee has 
been advised by Deloitte LLP .  Deloitte LLP are signatories to the Code 
of Conduct for the provision of independent remuneration advice of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group.  The Remuneration Committee are 
satisfied that the advice it has received was independent.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Peter Hargreaves is a Non-Executive Director of ITM Power plc and 
retains the fees related to that role. The other Executive Directors do not 
currently hold any external directorships.
Total dividend 
paid £’m
Profit 
before 
tax £’m
Staff 
costs £’m
Total dividend 
declared (pence 
per share)
2014 142.0 209.8 51.3 32.00p
2013 111.2 195.2 50.3 29.59p
% Change +28% +7% +2% +8%
Jul 09 Jun10 Jun 11 Jun 12 Jun 13 Jun 14
£700
£600
£500
£400
£300
£200
£100
FTSE 350 Financial Services Index
Hargreaves Lansdown
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN - HARGREAVES LANSDOWN 
AND FTSE 350 FINANCIAL SERVICES INDEX (£) 55 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RESPONSIBILITY
The Board remains ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but 
has delegated this responsibility to the Remuneration Committee. The 
Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Company’s website.
In determining the Directors’ remuneration and the remuneration 
structure for the current financial year, the Committee consulted Peter 
Hargreaves and Ian Gorham about its proposals, although no Director 
was involved in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
APPROVAL
The Director’s Remuneration Report including Policy, Annual Report and 
Chairman’s Statement have been approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf.
Christopher D. Barling – Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 September 2014
Resolution Votes for including 
discretionary votes
% 
for
Votes 
against
% 
against
Total votes cast excluding 
votes withheld
Votes 
withheld
Total votes cast 
including votes withheld
Approve Director’s Report 
on Remuneration 365,276,341 92.80% 28,347,226 7.20% 393,623,567 527,954 394,151,521
THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
The directors present their report on the affairs of the Group and the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 
June 2014.  Accompanying this Directors’ Report are the Strategic Report, 
Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report and Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. These reports form part of the Annual Report.
A review of the business and its future development is set out in the 
Strategic Report. A description of the principal risks and uncertainties is 
given on page 22 of the Strategic Report.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The review of the business and its Strategic Priorities in the Annual 
Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to 
shareholders to assess the Group’s strategies and the potential for 
these strategies to succeed. It should not be relied on by any other 
party for any other purpose. The review contains forward looking 
statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on 
information available to them up to the time of the approval of these 
reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties 
including both economic and business risk factors associated with 
such statements. The Directors, in preparing this Strategic Report, have 
complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 58. The 
Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the 
period, as detailed in note 10 to the financial statements. A second 
interim (final) dividend of 15.39 pence per ordinary share and a 
special dividend of 9.61 pence per ordinary share were declared after 
the balance sheet date and will be payable on 26 September 2014 
to shareholders on the register at close of business on 12 September 
2014.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Details of the Group’s policy on risk management has been made in 
note 28 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related 
to various financial instruments and exposure of the Group to financial, 
market, liquidity and credit risk.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s shares are listed on the main market of the London 
Stock Exchange.  The Company’s authorised and issued share capital 
during the year and as at 30 June 2014 is shown in note 22.  
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.  Save as agreed 
at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders, the ordinary 
shares have pre-emption rights in respect of any future issues of 
ordinary shares to the extent conferred by s561 of the 
Companies Act.  
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH ‘INFORMATION RIGHTS’
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered 
holder of those shares to receive information rights under s146 of the 
Directors’ report – other information
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE AGM
At the AGM held in 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration report were as follows: 56  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Number and % of Ordinary Shares at 30 June 2014 Number and % of Ordinary Shares at 30 June 2013
Non-Executive Directors
J Bloomer 
(1)
- 15,625 (<0.01%)
C Barling - -
M Evans 8,125 (<0.01%) 15,625 (<0.01%)
D Mistry 5,308 (<0.01%) 5,308 (<0.01%)
S Robertson 9,890 (<0.01%) 16,914 (<0.01%)
S Garrood 
(2)
- n/a
Executive Directors
I Gorham 332,628 (0.07%) 282,628 (0.06%)
P Hargreaves 152,639,678 (32.18%) 152,717,606 (32.20%)
T Taylor 763,369 (0.16%) 745,641 (0.16%)
Total 153,758,998 (32.42%) 153,799,347 (32.43%)
(1) 
J Bloomer was no longer a Non-Executive Director at 30 June 2014 and so his shareholding for the purposes of ‘Directors Interests’ is shown as nil.
(2) 
S Garrood was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 25 October 2013.
Since year end, Tracey Taylor has sold a total of 103,369 shares, and 
Dharmash Mistry has sold 5,308.  There have been no other changes to 
the directors’ interests in the shares of the Company since the year-end.
During the period covered by this report, no director had any material 
interest in a contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings was a party other than their own service contract, requiring 
disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 except in 
respect of the rental of the office premises at Kendal House as disclosed 
in note 27 to the financial statements. 
As is required by the FCA’s Listing Rules, the Company has entered into a 
relationship agreement with its controlling shareholder, Peter Hargreaves. The 
agreement also contains the right for the controlling shareholder to appoint a 
representative director as a non-independent Non-Executive Director, subject 
to Mr Hargreaves not remaining in office as a director himself.   The terms of 
the agreement will be taken to the shareholders for a vote at the AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at the date of this report, the Company has not been notified of any 
changes in shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the issued 
share capital of the Company, other than the directors’ interests which 
are set out in the table above and the following shareholdings:
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the 
benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity 
provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The 
indemnity was introduced in August 2014 and is currently in force. The 
Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover for up to £20 million in 
respect of itself and its Directors against liability which may be incurred 
acting as directors and officers and this remains in force at the date of 
this report.  
MODEL CODE
The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FCA 
Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
AMENDMENT TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY
The Articles of Association restrict the aggregate amount payable to 
Non-Executive Directors and was previously set when fewer Directors 
were employed.  Following the appointment of additional Directors, the 
aggregate fees payable exceeded the amounts permitted by the Articles 
of Association.  A resolution will be taken to the Annual General Meeting 
to increase the limits payable.
Interested Party Date of 
notification
Number and % of 
Ordinary shares
Stephen Lansdown 25 March 2014 75,500,000 (15.92%)
Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the 
registered holder of their shares rather than to the Company’s registrar, 
Equiniti Registrars, or to the Group directly.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The directors who held office during the year and at 30 June 2014 had 
the following interests (including beneficial interests) in the shares 
of the Company.  These interests are exclusive of any interests under 
share options or awards, details of which are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 57 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
At the Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2014, the following five 
items of special business will be tabled:
1. Authority to purchase own shares: The Company was granted authority 
at the AGM in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value 
of 10% of the issued nominal capital. This authority expires at this year’s 
AGM and a special resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
This resolution gives the directors authority to make market purchases 
of up to 47,431,862 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 
percent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at 10th September 
2014. The directors do not have any present intention of exercising such 
authority and the authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM 
after the passing of the proposed resolution.
2. and 3. Directors’ authority to allot shares and waiver of pre-emption 
rights: Resolutions are to be proposed as special business at the AGM 
on 24 October 2014 to enable the directors to allot unissued shares and, 
subject to the limits therein contained, to allot shares for cash other than 
to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
Allotment of shares - This resolution renews the directors’ authority 
to allot shares. The maximum nominal value of relevant securities that 
may be allotted pursuant to the authority is £632,424.80, representing 
158,106,200 ordinary shares. This amount represents approximately 
33.3 percent of the Company’s total share capital in issue as at 10th 
September 2014.
Waiver of pre-emption rights - This resolution renews the directors’ 
authority to issue new shares for cash, without following the statutory 
pre-emption procedures, so long as: (i) the issue is a rights issue, 
open offer or other pre-emptive offer, or pursuant to a scrip dividend 
alternative; or (ii) the aggregate nominal amount of such issue does not 
exceed £94,863.72 (which represents 5 percent of the issued share 
capital as at 10th September 2014).
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising either of the 
authorities and the authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions seek authorities which are in accordance with the 
current guidelines issued by the Investment Committees of the Association 
of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
4. Amendment to Clause 96 of the Company’s Articles of Association to 
increase the remuneration limits payable to Non-Executive Directors from 
a cumulative of £300,000 to a cumulative of £1,500,000, and ratification 
of the decision of the Company to pay fees to Non-Executive Directors in 
excess of the aggregate limit set out in the Articles for the years ended 
30th June 2013 and 2014.
5. Amendment to the 2010 Save As You Earn Scheme: to shorten the 
eligibility for all employees from two years’ service to one years’ service at 
the invitation date. 
PwC have expressed their willingness to accept appointment as auditor 
and a resolution to appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated 
economic conditions, the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.  
The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set out on 
page 22 along with how the Directors mitigate these risks in the current 
economic climate. The Group’s business activities, financial position, 
cash flows, liquidity position, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position are set out in the Business 
Review.  In addition, note 28 to the Financial Statements includes the 
Group’s policy on capital management, its exposure to financial risks and 
its policies and processes to manage those risks.
   
The Group maintains ongoing forecasts that indicate profitability in 
2014/15 and beyond.  Stress test scenarios are undertaken, the outcomes 
of which show that the Group has adequate capital resources for the 
foreseeable future even in extreme adverse economic conditions.  The 
Group’s business is highly cash generative with a low working capital 
requirement; indeed, the forecast cash flows show that the Group is 
expected to remain highly liquid in the forthcoming financial year.
After reviewing the Group’s financial forecasts including an assessment 
of regulatory and working capital, the Directors are confident that the 
Company and the Group have adequate financial resources available to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The going 
concern basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation of the 
financial statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual 
report confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
a director, in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
By order of the Board 
Judith Matthews 
Company Secretary 
16 September 2014 58  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the group for that period.  In preparing these financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.  
The directors consider that the annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess a company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. When arriving at this 
position the Board was assisted by a number of processes including the 
following:
• the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management with 
overall co-ordination by the Chief Financial Officer;
• an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure factual 
accuracy; and
• a draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by 
the Board.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in 
Governance section of the annual report confirm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
• the directors’ report contained in the Governance section of the 
annual report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board 
Ian Gorham                        Tracey Taylor 
Chief Executive           Chief Financial Officer 
16 September 2014   16 September 2014 59 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
Report on the financial statements
OUR OPINION
In our opinion:
• the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2014 
and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the Company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder 
of this report.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
The Group financial statements and Company financial statements (the 
“financial statements”), which are prepared by Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc, comprise:
• the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 June 2014;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity for 
the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”) to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to determine 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate 
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the Group financial statements as a whole to be £10.5 million. This 
represents approximately 5% of profit before tax, which is considered to 
be an appropriate benchmark for a profit-oriented entity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £500,000 as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting 
for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of the audit
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 17 legal 
entities, comprising the four core legal entities representing the asset 
management, stockbroking, fund management and advisory businesses, 
and a further 13 legal entities comprising the Group’s holding company, 
nominee company, dormant subsidiaries, and trust and trustee companies.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the 
type of work that needed to be performed at the legal entities to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained 
as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We determined that the four core legal entities required an audit of their 
complete financial information due to their size and risk characteristics. 
Specific audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions 
were also performed in relation to other legal entities to ensure that we 
obtained appropriate coverage across all account balances. This work, 
together with additional procedures performed at the group level, gave us 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole.
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of 
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in 
these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available 
evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in 
the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and 
other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular 
focus in the current year. This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of 
focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the 
Audit Committee. Their report on those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 42.
GOING CONCERN
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that 
it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the 
Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is 
appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Fraud in revenue recognition
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve 
planned results. 
We assessed that this risk was focused on the accuracy of the four 
most significant revenue streams (renewal income, management 
fees, platform fees and commission on securities transactions). We 
identified this as an area of focus due to the high volume low value 
nature of transactions, each of which is reliant upon the correct 
charging structures and calculations within the system.
We understood and evaluated the controls surrounding revenue 
recognition including the IT control environment. 
We used data auditing techniques to test the revenue recognised 
in respect of the four revenue streams. These procedures used 
transactional and balance data from the underlying pool of clients’ 
assets to independently recalculate these revenue streams using 
rates agreed with external fund groups and Hargreaves Lansdown’s 
published fee structures. 
In addition we tested a sample of the rates used back to supporting 
contracts, investment prices to an independent source, and holdings to 
external confirmations.
Risk of management override of internal controls
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including 
the arrangements for staff to escalate concerns, and interviewed senior 
management and the Group’s internal audit function. We examined 
the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the 
financial statements, such as the valuation of share based payments, 
for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud. We also tested journal entries 
made to identify unusual or irregular items.
IT Control Environment
We focused on the IT control environment as the Group is heavily 
reliant upon the effective and continual operation of its IT platform 
which has been developed in-house. The IT platform is key to its 
revenue generation and is also relied upon for many aspects of the 
financial reporting process. In-house development gives rise to a 
greater risk of unauthorised access or alteration to the system.
We understood and assessed the overall IT control environment and 
the controls in place which included controls over access to systems 
and data, as well as system changes. We tailored our audit approach 
based on the financial significance of the system and whether there were 
automated procedures supported by that system. 
The procedures performed included testing the operating effectiveness 
of controls over appropriate access rights and validating that only 
appropriate users had the ability to create, modify or delete user 
accounts for the relevant in-scope applications. 
In addition, we tested the operating effectiveness of controls around 
system development and program changes to establish that changes 
to the system were appropriately authorised and also developed and 
implemented properly. 61 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES 
ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements;
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on pages 32 to 40 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY 
EXCEPTION
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations 
received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 
by the Company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
On page 58 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision 
C.1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken 
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. On page 37, 
as required by C.3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out 
the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
• the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by 
us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
• is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into 
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
Craig Gentle (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Bristol
16 September 2014
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Hargreaves Lansdown plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
The results relate entirely to continuing operations.
1. There has been a change in accounting policy which has changed the presentation of operating costs (see Note 1 to the financial statements).
2. FSCS costs are those relating to the running of and the levies issued under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. For the year ended 30 June 2013 a refund was received relating to 
payments made in earlier years. 
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Note
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
1 
£’000
Revenue 4 358,393 292,403
Commission payable (66,526) (23,205)
Staff costs 7 (51,280) (50,265)
Other operating costs (31,734) (27,005)
FSCS costs
2
(832) 532
Operating profit 208,021 192,460
Investment revenue 8 1,768 2,879
Other losses (3) (155)
Profit before tax 209,786 195,184
Tax 9 (47,052) (46,195)
Profit for the financial year 6 162,734 148,989
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 162,091 148,391
Non-controlling interest 643 598
162,734 148,989
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 11 34.5 31.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 11 34.2 31.4
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Profit for the financial year 162,734 148,989
Other comprehensive income for the period:-
Items that may be classified subsequently to profit or loss:
(Decrease)/Increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments - (160)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 162,734 148,829
Attributable to:-
Owners of the parent 162,091 148,231
Non-controlling interest 643 598
162,734 148,829 63 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Attributable to the owners of the parent
 Share 
capital
£’000
 Share 
premium 
account
£’000
 Investment 
revaluation 
reserve
£’000
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
 Shares 
held by EBT 
reserve
£’000
 EBT reserve
£’000
 Retained 
earnings
£’000
 Total
£’000
 Non-
controlling 
interest
£’000
 Total
 equity
£’000
At 1 July 2012 1,897 8 160 12 (14,029) 10,014 158,932 156,994 425 157,419
Profit for the period - - - - - - 148,391 148,391 598 148,989
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on available-
for-sale assets - - (160) - - - - (160) - (160)
Total comprehensive income - - (160) - - - - (160) - (160)
Employee Benefit Trust:-
Shares sold in the year - - - - 4,343 - - 4,343 - 4,343
Shares acquired in the year - - - - (11,771) - - (11,771) - (11,771)
EBT share sale net of tax - - - - - 3,634 - 3,634 - 3,634
Employee share option scheme:-
Share-based payments expense
 - - - - - - 2,386 2,386 - 2,386
Current tax effect of share-
based payments - - - - - - 482 482 - 482
Deferred tax effect of share-
based payments - - - - - - 3,546 3,546 - 3,546
Dividend paid - - - - - - (111,223) (111,223) (500) (111,723)
At 30 June 2013 1,897 8 - 12 (21,457) 13,648 202,514 196,622 523 197,145
Profit for the period - - - - - - 162,091 162,091 643 162,734
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on available-
for-sale assets - - - - - - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - - - - - - - -
Employee Benefit Trust:-
Shares sold in the year - - - - 10,123 - - 10,123 - 10,123
Shares acquired in the year - - - - (4,887) - - (4,887) - (4,887)
EBT share sale net of tax - - - - - (103) - (103) - (103)
Employee share option scheme:-
Share-based payments expense
 - - - - - - 2,016 2,016 - 2,016
Current tax effect of share-
based payments - - - - - - 3,848 3,848 - 3,848
Deferred tax effect of share-
based payments - - - - - - 56 56 - 56
Dividend paid - - - - - - (142,013) (142,013) (575) (142,588)
At 30 June 2014 1,897 8 - 12 (16,221) 13,545 228,512 227,753 591 228,344
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Group, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. 
The Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust (“the EBT”) reserve represents the cost of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc purchased in the market and held by the Hargreaves Lansdown plc 
Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
The EBT reserve represents the cumulative gain on disposal of investments held by the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT. The reserve is not distributable by the Company as the assets and liabilities 
of the EBT are subject to management by the Trustees in accordance with the EBT trust deed.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Non-controlling interests consist of the minority’s proportion 
of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interest’s change in equity since that date. The non-controlling 
interest represents a 25% shareholding in Library Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Note
At 30 June 2014
£’000
At 30 June 2013
1
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 1,333 1,333
Other intangible assets 13 2,828 686
Property, plant and equipment 14 12,679 9,737
Deferred tax assets 19 6,750 6,988
23,590 18,744
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 303,863 284,215
Cash and cash equivalents 18 201,238 177,754
Investments 16 874 613
Current tax assets 29 26
506,004 462,608
Total assets 529,594 481,352
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 280,922 259,945
Provisions 21 32 127
Current tax liabilities 20,049 23,858
301,003 283,930
Net current assets 205,001 178,678
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 21 247 277
Total liabilities 301,250 284,207
Net assets 228,344 197,145
EQUITY
Share capital 22 1,897 1,897
Share premium account 8 8
Investment revaluation reserve - -
Capital redemption reserve 12 12
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve (16,221) (21,457)
EBT reserve 13,545 13,648
Retained earnings 228,512 202,514
Total equity, attributable to the owners of the parent 227,753 196,622
Non-controlling interest 591 523
Total equity 228,344 197,145
Note: 1 Restated – see note 1 to the financial statements
The consolidated financial statements on pages 62 to 92 were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 16 September 2014 
and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Gorham  Tracey Taylor 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer 65 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Note
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
1
 
£’000
Net cash from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 213,741 190,714
Income tax paid (46,720) (40,521)
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities 167,021 150,193
Investing activities
Interest received 1,646 2,769
Dividends received from investments 122 110
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments - 1,434
Purchase of plant and equipment (5,018) (5,301)
Purchase of intangible assets (2,569) (915)
Purchase of available-for-sale investments (262) (97)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (6,081) (2,000)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares in EBT (4,887) (11,771)
Proceeds on sale of own shares in EBT 10,019 7,978
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (142,013) (111,223)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (575) (500)
Net cash used in financing activities (137,456) (115,516)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 23,484 32,677
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 177,754 145,077
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 201,238 177,754
Note: 1 Restated – see note 1 to the financial statements
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) and ultimate parent of the Group is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the 
Companies Act 2006 whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is One College Square South, 
Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. 
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, IFRS adopted by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of 
the IASB (together “IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as discussed on page 57.
During the year there has been a change in accounting policy relating to cash and the presentation of the income statement:
- Delivery versus payment exemptions from the FCA client money rules are not taken by the Group. The related cash balances are at all times held in 
trust as client money. Client settlement account balances were previously shown as restricted cash included within cash and cash equivalents. The 
accounting policy has now been changed to reclassify these balances to trade and other receivables, which better reflects the form of these balances. 
The impact of this change is to reduce restricted cash and cash equivalents by £21.0 million (30 June 2013: £19.8 million, 30 June 2012: £12.6 million) 
and increase trade and other receivables by an equal amount. The subsequent impact on the cash flow statement for the year to 30 June 2013 is 
that net cash from operating activities was reduced by £7.2 million and the cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year were decreased by 
£12.6 million to £145.1 million. There was no impact on profit before tax in either reporting period. 
- The presentation of the income statement has been changed from the function of expense to the nature of expense format. Following the 
implementation of the Retail Distribution Review in March 2014 it is felt that this format provides users of the accounts with more useful information.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 3.
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts reported in these 
financial statements.
- Amendment to IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, on asset and liability offsetting. This amendment includes new disclosures to facilitate 
comparison between those entities that prepare IFRS financial statements to those that prepare financial statements in accordance with US GAAP . 
Disclosures are provided in Notes 17 and 20. 
- IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single 
source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs 
and US GAAP , do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or 
permitted by other standards within IFRSs. Disclosures are provided in Note 28.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
- Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance
- Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ 
- Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’
- Amendment to IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ 
- Amendment to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ 
- Amendment to IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’
- Annual improvements 2012 and Annual improvements 2013
- IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’
- IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’
- IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’
- IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
- IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’
- IAS 27, (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’
- IAS 28, (revised 2011) ‘Associates and joint ventures’
- IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’
Other than to expand certain disclosures within the financial statements, the directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards and 
interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and financial 
assets at fair value through profit and loss. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 67 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
made up to 30 June 2014. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by 
the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control 
of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 “Business 
Combinations” are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are 
reviewed for impairment at least annually as a matter of course, and whenever an event or change in circumstances occurs which indicates potential 
impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of 
disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS on 1 July 2005 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to 
being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 30 June 1997 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Revenue is primarily classified as recurring, transactional or other. 
Recurring revenue principally comprises the revenue streams of renewal income, management fees, platform fees and interest income on client 
money, while transactional revenue principally comprises initial commission on stockbroking transactions. Revenue is recognised as follows: 
Recurring
Renewal income is earned from fund management groups and is recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of assets under 
the administration, or agency, of the Group primarily at each month-end. Management and platform fees are paid by clients and are recognised on 
an accruals basis calculated according to the level of applicable assets where fees apply at each month-end. The interest income on client money 
balances is the net interest margin earned by the Group and is accrued on a time basis, according to the client money balances under administration 
and by reference to the effective interest rate applicable.
Transactional
The Group’s stockbroking and unit trust management subsidiaries earn commission on securities transactions entered into on behalf of clients. The 
commission earned is recorded in the accounts on the date of the transaction, as this is the date on which the service is provided to the client and the 
Group becomes entitled to the income.
 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
The Group also earns initial commission from third party providers on the set up of group pension schemes. Initial commissions are deemed to be 
earned at the policy inception date on those policies where there are only negligible ongoing services. Where ongoing services are provided, an 
appropriate proportion of the income is deferred over the relevant period. Where such commission is received on an indemnity basis, a provision is 
made for clawbacks, if any, which would be due if the policy lapses during the indemnity period.
Other
Other income principally represents the amount of fees receivable from the provision of Funds Library services, and is recognised on an accruals basis 
when the services are provided. 
Investment revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal balance and the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income from 
investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Commission payable, staff costs and other operating costs
Commission payable represents a percentage of renewal income paid to clients as a loyalty bonus. Staff costs represent amounts paid to employees 
in respect of services provided in the year including wages and salaries, share-based payment expenses, bonuses, payments to a defined contribution 
retirement benefit scheme and related social security costs. Other operating costs represent costs arising as a result of our operations and includes 
depreciation and amortisation. All amounts are recognised on an accrual basis.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle 
that obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and 
are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Provisions are recognised for:
- future committed property lease payments when the Group receives no benefit from the property through continuing usage and future receipts 
from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the Group’s future committed payments.
- commissions received on indemnity terms where there may be a liability to repay the commissions received.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group 
is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax 
is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 69 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were 
unvested at 1 July 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest 
and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of 
options expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is 
recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. 
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a 
stock exchange and therefore, in the absence of a readily available market price for the shares, the share price was based on the market value agreed with 
HM Revenue & Customs and share price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility applying to a comparable group of listed companies. 
Any gains or losses on sale of the Company’s own shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) are credited or debited 
directly to the EBT reserve and are treated as undistributable profits.
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the original purchase price 
of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged on all plant and 
equipment based on the estimates of their useful economic lives and expected residual values, which are reviewed annually. Management determines 
the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on experience with similar assets and taking into account other relevant 
factors such as any expected changes in technology. The charge is calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each 
asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
Leasehold property tenants’ fixtures, IT, office equipment and other fixtures – over 3 to 10 years 
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Leasing
Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received 
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill
Other intangible assets comprise computer software and the Group’s key operating system which are stated at cost less amortisation and any 
recognised impairment loss. Amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible assets excluding goodwill at rates calculated to write off the 
cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Computer software: over 3 to 4 years
Computer software relates entirely to purchases and does not include any internally generated value. The carrying values of computer software are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The gain or loss arising 
on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in income.
Internally generated assets
IT development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset, which delivers benefits at least as great 
as the amount capitalised. Development work has been undertaken in-house to enhance the key operating systems. Until 1 July 2012 this cost was 
not material and was recognised as an expense, the amounts are now more material and hence the costs are being capitalised as an intangible asset 
and subsequently depreciated over the estimated useful life of the system. Where such costs relate to an asset that is not yet available for use by the 
business, they have been separately classified as assets under construction and have not been amortised, but instead been reviewed for impairment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated  in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).  
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are declared and paid, or, if 
earlier, in the accounting period when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Subsequently appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are made 
and recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. In accordance with market practice, certain balances with 
clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as debtors. Market receivables and payables are presented net where 
there is a legal right of offset.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require 
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The Group’s available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation gains 
and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 63, until sale when 
the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement. If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price 
or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that cost is not materially different to fair 
value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
Investments which are designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted market price of the listed 
investment, with any gain or loss reported within the income statement. An investment is classified in this category if it is held principally for the 
purpose of selling in the short term.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to 
a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at fair value which is equivalent to amortised cost. In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, 
Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as creditors. Market debtors and creditors are presented net where there is a 
legal right of offset.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 71 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
3. KEY SOURCES OF JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on 
management’s best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and 
assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change. The areas where a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are minimal and discussed below.
Share-based payments
In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions 
about the future events and market conditions. In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the fair 
value of each award granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model which is dependent on future estimates, including 
the Group’s future dividend policy, the timing with which the options will be exercised and the future volatility in the price of the Group’s shares. 
Different assumptions about these factors to those made by the Group could affect the reported value of share-based payments. Whilst this is an 
area of judgement in the financial statements, the value of share-based payments is not materially impacted by the selection of assumptions and 
consequently no sensitivity analysis has been presented. The main assumptions are provided in note 25.
4. REVENUE
Revenue represents commission receivable from financial services provided to clients, interest income on client money and management fees charged 
to clients. It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax. An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Recurring income principally comprises renewal income, management fees, platform fees and interest income on client money. Transactional income 
principally comprises commission earned from stockbroking transactions. Other income principally represents the amount of fees receivable from the 
provision of Funds Library services. The policies adopted for the recognition of each significant revenue stream are set out in note 2 above.
As highlighted in the Business Review, following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”), total revenue earned from investment 
funds held by clients significantly increased as a new platform fee was introduced. At the same time commission income is being received from the 
fund management groups on funds purchased by clients before the RDR implementation date. Where we still receive commission on these pre-
RDR or “legacy funds” the vast majority is now passed back to our clients in the form of a significantly higher loyalty bonus which is shown within 
commission payable in the income statement.
5. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group is organised into three business segments, namely the Vantage division, the Discretionary division and the Third Party/Other Services 
division. This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM) is provided with financial information. The CODM has been identified as the Board of Executive Directors.
The ‘Vantage’ division represents all activities relating to our direct to private investor platform. 
The ‘Discretionary/Managed’ division is focused on the provision of managed services such as our Portfolio Management Service (PMS) and range of 
Multi-Manager funds. 
The ‘Third Party/Other Services’ division includes activities relating to the broking of third party investments and pensions, certificated share dealing 
and other niche services such as currency, CFDs and spread betting. In this division, clients’ investments are not administered within the Group.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Revenue from services:
Recurring income 287,293 233,008
Transactional income 65,118 53,371
Other income 5,982 6,024
Total revenue 358,393 292,403
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
5. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
The ‘Group’ segment contains items that are shared by the Group as a whole and cannot be reasonably allocated to other operating segments.
Segment expenses are those that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can reasonably 
be allocated to the segment. Gains or losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments, investment income, interest payable and tax are not 
allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items. 
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated. At 30 June 2014 and 2013, these comprise cash and 
cash equivalents, short-term investments, tax-related and other assets or liabilities. 
Consolidation adjustments relate to the elimination of inter-segment revenues at arm’s length prices, balances and investments in group subsidiaries 
required on consolidation.
Information about products/services
The Group’s operating segments are business units that provide different products and services. The breakdown of revenue from external customers 
for each type of service is therefore the same as the segmental analysis above.
Information about geographical area
All business activities are located within the UK.
Information about major customers
The Group does not rely on any individual customer.
Vantage
£’000
Discretionary/ 
Managed
£’000
Third Party/
Other Services
£’000
Group
£’000
Consolidation 
Adjustment
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Year ended 30 June 2014 287,293 233,008
Revenue from external customers 287,219 45,103 26,071 - - 358,393
Inter-segment revenue - 4,799 - - (4,799) -
Total segment revenue 287,219 49,902 26,071 - (4,799) 358,393
Depreciation and amortisation 1,853 279 368 - - 2,500
Investment revenue - - - 1,768 - 1,768
Other losses - - - (3) - (3)
Reportable segment profit before tax 160,565 31,946 16,210 1,065 - 209,786
Reportable segment assets 264,894 27,631 16,720 237,673 (17,324) 529,594
Reportable segment liabilities (243,230) (13,200) (13,249) (46,744) 15,173 (301,250)
Net segment assets 21,664 14,431 3,471 190,929 (2,151) 228,344
Year ended 30 June 2013
Revenue from external customers 227,204 34,140 31,059 - - 292,403
Inter-segment revenue - 4,889 - - (4,889) -
Total segment revenue 227,204 39,029 31,059 - (4,889) 292,403
Depreciation and amortisation 1,243 183 289 - - 1,715
Investment revenue - - - 2,879 - 2,879
Other losses - - - (155) - (155)
Reportable segment profit before tax 150,230 23,154 19,700 2,100 - 195,184
Reportable segment assets 257,234 20,124 18,072 203,747 (17,825) 481,352
Reportable segment liabilities (219,475) (17,473) (14,360) (48,572) 15,673 (284,207)
Net segment assets 37,759 2,651 3,712 155,175 (2,152) 197,145
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
6. OPERATING PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Operating profit for the financial year has been arrived at after charging:
The analysis of auditor remuneration is as follows: 
Fees for the year-ended 30 June 2014 were payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and for the year-ended 30 June 2013 were payable to Deloitte 
LLP . The auditors have not received any remuneration for non-audit services of any kind.
7. STAFF COSTS
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including executive directors) was:
The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages, which may 
be linked to the creation of long-term shareholder value. Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market 
generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. All employees are eligible to be considered for an annual discretionary bonus. 
In addition to cash bonuses, the Group operates various share-based remuneration schemes as described in note 25. Other pension costs relate 
wholly to defined contribution schemes.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Depreciation of owned plant and equipment 2,074 1,352
Amortisation of other intangible assets 426 363
Operating lease rentals payable – property 2,365 2,412
Office running costs 4,244 3,787
Marketing and distribution 11,253 10,995
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Audit fees:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the statutory audit of the company’s annual financial statements 5 5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audits of the Company’s associates 89 88
Audit related assurance services 24 23
Total fees: 118 116
Year ended 
30 June 2014 
No.
Year ended 
30 June 2013 
No.
Operating and support functions 564 524
Administrative functions 230 207
794 731
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 38,528 38,195
Social security costs 6,666 6,304
Share-based payment expenses 2,016 2,386
Other pension costs 4,070 3,380
51,280 50,265
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
8. INVESTMENT REVENUE
9. TAX
Corporation tax is calculated at 22.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year to 30 June 2014 (2013: 23.75%).
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, certain tax amounts have been charged or credited directly to equity as follows:
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
It is expected that the ongoing effective tax rate will remain at a rate approximating to the standard UK corporation tax rate in the medium term. 
The standard UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 21% (from 23%) on 1 April 2014. Deferred tax has been recognised at 20%, being the rate 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset in respect of future share option deductions has been recognised based on the 
Company’s share price as at 30 June 2014. 
Factors affecting future tax charge
Any increase or decrease to the Company’s share price will impact the amount of tax deduction available in future years on the value of shares 
acquired by staff under share incentive schemes. The Finance Act 2013 received Royal Assent on 17 July 2013 and will reduce the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 1,646 2,769
Dividends from equity investment 122 110
1,768 2,879
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Current tax: on profits for the year 46,723 46,804
Current tax: adjustments in respect of prior years 35 (106)
Deferred tax (Note 19): 235 (502)
Deferred tax: adjustments in respect of prior years 59 (1)
47,052 46,195
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Deferred tax relating to share-based payments (56) (3,546)
Current tax relating to share-based payments (3,848) (482)
(3,904) (4,028)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 75 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
10. DIVIDENDS
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
After the balance sheet date, the directors declared a second interim (final) ordinary dividend of 15.39 pence per share and a special dividend of 9.61 
pence per share payable on 26 September 2014 to shareholders on the register on 12 September 2014. Dividends are required to be recognised 
in the financial statements when paid, and accordingly the declared dividend amounts are not recognised in these financial statements, but will be 
included in the 2014 financial statements as follows:
Under an arrangement dated 30 June 1997 the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust, which held the following number of ordinary shares in 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc at the date shown, has agreed to waive all dividends.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Profit before tax from continuing operations 209,786 195,184
Theoretical tax charge 47,205 46,358
- at the UK corporation tax rate of 22.5% 23.75%
Items (allowable)/not allowable for tax (396) (148)
Effect of adjustments relating to prior year 94 (107)
Impact of the change in tax rate 149 92
Tax expense for the year 47,052 46,195
Effective tax rate 22.4% 23.7%
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
2013 Second interim dividend of 14.38p (2012: 10.65p) per share 67,355 49,756
2013 Special dividend of 8.91p (2012: 6.84p) per share 41,734 31,956
2014 First interim dividend of 7.0p (2013: 6.3p) per share 32,924 29,511
Total dividends paid during the year 142,013 111,223
Year ended 
30 June 2014
No. of shares
Year ended 
30 June 2013
No. of shares
Number of shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust 3,547,124 5,923,930
Representing % of called-up share capital 0.75% 1.25%
£’000
2014 Second interim dividend of 15.39p (2013: 14.38p) per share 72,435
2014 Special dividend of 9.61p (2013: 8.91p) per share 45,240
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in free issue during the period, including ordinary shares held in the EBT reserve which have vested unconditionally with employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive 
potential ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 179,414 at 
30 June 2014 (2013: 320,210).
12. GOODWILL 
The net carrying value of goodwill relates entirely to the acquisition of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited (HLPD). During the prior year 
as part of a restructuring exercise, HLPD changed its name to Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS). From 1 January 2013 advisory 
services previously provided by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM), including those in respect of the Portfolio Management 
Service, are now provided by HLAS. Certain administration services previously provided by HLAS are now provided by HLAM. The overall impact to 
the group is nil but the impact on HLAS was that it had less revenue and profits than previously. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The Group has prepared 
financial forecasts for the business for the period to June 2017 which show that the Group as a whole will remain highly profitable and cash generative. 
Within the forecast, the revenue streams which belong to HLAS, although lower than before the restructuring, are forecast to grow with the company 
continuing to be profitable. HLAS is profit-making (profit before tax for year ended 30 June 2014 was £13.8 million) and has a net assets position as at 
30 June 2014 of £24.1 million, therefore the directors see no reason to impair the value of goodwill and continue to hold it at its carrying amount.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Earnings (all from continuing operations):
Earnings for the purposes of basic & diluted EPS - net profit attributable to equity holders of parent company 162,091 148,391
Number of shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 474,365,495 471,923,756
Weighted average number of shares held by HL EBT which have not vested unconditionally with employees (4,109,730) (3,981,223)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 470,255,765 467,942,533
Earnings per share: Pence Pence
Basic EPS 34.5 31.7
Diluted EPS 34.2 31.4
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Cost - at beginning and end of year 1,450 1,450
Accumulated impairment losses
At beginning and end of year 117 117
Carrying amount - at end of year 1,333 1,333
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 77 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
13. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The amortisation charge above is included in other operating costs in the income statement. 
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use by the Group.
Assets under 
construction
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2012 - 2,776 2,776
Additions 249 666 915
Other movements - (476) (476)
At 30 June 2013 249 2,966 3,215
Additions 1,045 1,523 2,568
At 30 June 2014 1,294 4,489 5,783
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2012 - 2,608 2,608
Charge - 363 363
Other movements - (442) (442)
At 30 June 2013 - 2,529 2,529
Charge - 426 426
At 30 June 2014 - 2,955 2,955
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 1,294 1,534 2,828
At 30 June 2013 249 437 686
At 30 June 2012 - 168 168
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
 
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use.
15. SUBSIDIARIES
A list of the investments in subsidiaries included in the consolidated results of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc is shown in note 4 to the parent company 
financial statements. 
Group
£’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2012 15,017
Additions 5,301
Other movements (1,197)
At 30 June 2013 19,121
Additions 5,018
Other movements (5)
At 30 June 2014 24,134
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2012 9,225
Charge 1,352
Other movements (1,193)
At 30 June 2013 9,384
Charge 2,074
Other movements (3)
At 30 June 2014 11,455
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 12,679
At 30 June 2013 9,737
At 30 June 2012 5,792
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 79 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
16. INVESTMENTS
£610,000 (2013: £349,000) of investments are classified as held at fair value through profit and loss and £264,000 (2013: £264,000) are classified 
as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation 
gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, until sale when the 
cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement. If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price or 
other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that this is not significantly different to fair 
value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
*The prior period comparatives have been restated as a result of a change in accounting policy. The impact of this is disclosed in Note 1. 
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
At beginning of year 613 2,228
Sales - (1,712)
Purchases 261 97
Net increase in the value of available-for-sale investments - -
At end of year 874 613
Comprising:
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price 610 349
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost 264 264
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013*
£’000
Financial assets:
Trade receivables* 262,257 249,697
Other receivables 6,039 962
268,296 250,659
Non-financial assets:
Prepayments and accrued income 35,567 33,556
303,863 284,215
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Trade and other receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are 
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice and IFRS, certain balances 
with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties totalling £242.9 million (2013: £231.2 million) are included in trade receivables.  
These balances are presented net where there is a legal right of offset and the ability and intention to settle net. The gross amount of trade 
receivables is £314.5 million and the gross amount offset in the balance sheet with trade payables is £71.6 million. 80  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
*The prior period comparatives have been restated as a result of a change in accounting policy. The impact of this is disclosed in Note 1. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and institutional cash funds with near-instant access held by the Group. 
At 30 June 2014 segregated deposit amounts held by the Group on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority amounted to £4,109 million (2013: £3,581 million). The client retains the beneficial interest in these deposits and accordingly they 
are not included in the balance sheet of the Group.
19. DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax has 
been recognised at 20%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date. 
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013*
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents
Restricted cash – balances held by EBT 4,471 37
Group cash and cash equivalent balances 196,767 177,717
201,238 177,754
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£’000
Future relief on 
capital losses
£’000
Share-based 
payments
£’000
Other deductible 
temporary 
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 July 2012 650 22 1,162 1,105 2,939
(Charge)/credit to income (203) (22) 465 263 503
Credit to equity - - 3,546 - 3,546
At 30 June 2013 447 - 5,173 1,368 6,988
(Charge)/credit to income (302) - 11 (3) (294)
Credit to equity - - 56 - 56
At 30 June 2014 145 - 5,240 1,365 6,750
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 81 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
In accordance with market practice and IFRS, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties totalling £241.1 
million (2013: £230.0 million) are included in trade payables. As stated in note 17 above, where we have a legal right of offset and the ability and 
intention to settle net, trade payable balances have been presented net. The gross amount of trade payables is £312.7 million and the gross amount 
offset in the balance sheet with trade receivables is £71.6 million.
Other payables principally comprise amounts owed to clients as a loyalty bonus and to staff as a bonus. Accruals and deferred income principally 
comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and revenue received but not yet earned on group pension schemes where an ongoing service is 
still being provided.
 
21. PROVISIONS 
The indemnity provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to repay commission received on indemnity terms. The 
provision is based on past experience and the volume of indemnified commission. 
The provision on property related costs represents the Group’s future committed lease payments on non-cancellable leases and other contractual 
obligations that arise on the surrendering of operating leases. These property provisions are not expected to be fully utilised until 2026.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Financial liabilities:
Trade payables 242,153 231,192
Social security and other taxes 11,488 10,063
Other payables 16,385 7,311
270,026 248,566
Non-financial liabilities:
Accruals and deferred income 10,896 11,379
280,922 259,945
Commission on 
indemnity terms
£’000
Included within current liabilities:
At 1 July 2012 -
Charged during the year 127
At 30 June 2013 127
Utilised during the year (95)
At 30 June 2014 32
Property costs
£’000
Included within non-current liabilities:
At 1 July 2012 277
Charged during the year -
At 30 June 2013 277
Utilised during the year (30)
At 30 June 2014 247
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
22. SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
 
23. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
*The prior period comparatives have been restated as a result of a change in accounting policy. The impact of this is disclosed in Note 1.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Authorised:
525,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.4p each 2,100 2,100
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 0.4p each 1,897 1,897
Shares Shares
Issued and fully paid:
Number of ordinary shares of 0.4p each 474,318,625 474,318,625
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Profit for the year after tax 162,734 148,989
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (1,768) (2,879)
Income tax expense 47,052 46,195
Depreciation of plant and equipment 2,074 1,352
Amortisation of intangible assets 426 363
Loss on disposal 3 155
Share-based payment expense 2,016 2,386
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (125) 127
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 212,412 196,688
(Increase)/decrease in receivables* (19,648) (128,967)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 20,977 122,993
Cash generated from operations* 213,741 190,714
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 83 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
24. COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments – as lessee
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under the remaining term of non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties. The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable 
operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation values and renewal rights.
Capital commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group had capital commitments of £749,000 (2013: £1,385,000) for IT equipment. 
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group seeks to facilitate significant equity ownership by employees, principally through schemes which encourage and assist the purchase of the 
Company’s shares. 
The Group operates four share option and share award plans: the Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”), the Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”), the Hargreaves Lansdown Company Share Option Scheme (the “Executive Option Scheme”) and the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Joint Share Ownership Plan (“JSOP”).
Awards granted under the Employee SAYE scheme vest over five years. Awards granted under the Employee Share Incentive Plan vest over a three-
year period. Awards granted under the Executive Option Scheme vest between nil and ten years. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the 
market value of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. There are currently no performance conditions attached to any options granted under any 
of the schemes, although options are forfeited (in most circumstances) if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
Interests in shares purchased under the JSOP were granted at under market value, with tax and National Insurance being paid on the difference. The 
shares must be held for a minimum of three years under the terms of the Deeds and are realisable in only very limited circumstances before that date. 
There are no performance conditions attached to the shares.
Details of the share options and share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating lease recognised as an expense in the year 2,365 2,412
Within one year 2,913 2,896
In the second to fifth years inclusive 11,313 11,349
After five years 20,309 22,976
Total minimum lease payments 34,535 37,221
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
The weighted average market share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1129.73 pence (2013: 737.89 pence).
Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Share 
options
No.
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
SIP
Outstanding at beginning of the year 99,912 23.5 182,635 23.5
Exercised during the year (41,525) 23.5 (82,723) 23.5
Outstanding at the end of the year 58,387 23.5 99,912 23.5
Exercisable at the end of the year 58,387 23.5 99,912 23.5
SAYE
Outstanding at beginning of the year 1,457,086 348.6 1,444,992 306.2
Granted during the year 191,710 1143.0 115,701 868.0
Exercised during the year (318,796) 175.5 (14,547) 193.9
Forfeited during the year (56,445) 438.7 (89,060) 359.1
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,273,555 506.9 1,457,086 348.6
Exercisable at the end of the year - - 5,820 276.9
Executive Option Scheme
Outstanding at beginning of the year 6,453,740 467.4 5,900,053 417.4
Granted during the year 771,208 1,154.7 1,093,500 669.9
Exercised during the year (2,124,676) 404.0 (463,995) 319.5
Forfeited during the year (79,900) 579.1 (75,818) 401.6
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,020,372 598.0 6,453,740 467.4
Exercisable at the end of the year 578,733 513.7 15,355 195.4
JSOP
Outstanding at beginning of the year 333,334 - 2,750,000 -
Exercised during the year (333,334) - (2,416,666) -
Outstanding at the end of the year - - 333,334 -
Exercisable at the end of the year - - 333,334 -
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 85 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
The share options outstanding at the end of each year have exercise prices and expected remaining lives as follows: 
Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013
Share 
options
No.
Weighted 
average expected 
remaining life
Share 
options
No.
Weighted 
average expected 
remaining life
Options exercise price range (pence)
23.5 58,387 0 years 99,912 0 years
175.0 - 0 years 317,769 0.3 years
195.4 163,205 0 years 690,975 0.8 years
268.3 299,074 0.7 years 312,896 1.7 years
268.8 - 0 years 333,334 0 years
347.2 203,680 0.7 years 203,680 1.7 years
365.0 595,560 2.7 years 622,295 3.7 years
388.8 974,649 1.2 years 982,365 2.2 years
409.8 - 0 years 500,000 0.2 years
441.3 200,000 0.7 years 200,000 1.7 years
447.6 400,000 0.2 years 400,000 1.2 years
451.9 636,433 2.2 years 645,523 3.2 years
458.0 - 0 years 800,000 0.3 years
477.1 86,240 1.7 years 91,858 2.7 years
595.0 212,897 1.7 years 212,897 2.7 years
606.3 424,800 0.2 years 724,800 0.9 years
631.5 493,500 3.3 years 493,500 4.3 years
687.0 480,000 1.3 years 540,000 2.3 years
831.0 60,000 3.6 years 60,000 4.6 years
868.0 100,970 3.7 years 112,267 4.7 years
888.1 53,208 2.6 years - 0 years
980.0 318,000 4.3 years - 0 years
1,143.0 191,710 4.8 years - 0 years
1,329.0 400,000 2.6 years - 0 years
6,352,313 1.8 years 8,344,071 1.8 years
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year ended 30 June 2014 and the year ended 30 June 2013 has been estimated by 
the Black-Scholes methodology and the principal assumptions required by the methodology were as follows:
The expected volatility
The expected Hargreaves Lansdown Plc share price volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price since 
flotation in May 2007.
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price existed for the 
shares. The share price of share option awards granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market value agreed with HM Revenue 
& Customs using an earnings multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies. Similarly, share price volatility was estimated as the 
average of the volatility experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on 
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. Since 15 May 2007, a quoted 
market price has been available for the Company’s shares. 
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions as shown in note 7.
26. EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 3 September 2014 the directors proposed a second interim ordinary dividend payment of 15.39 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend 
of 9.61 pence per ordinary share, payable on 26 September 2014 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 September 2014 as 
detailed in note 10. 
 At 30 June 2014 At 30 June 2013
Weighted average share price 1,198.42p 761.84p
Expected dividend yields 2.73% 4.13%
SAYE
Weighted average exercise price 1,143.00p 868.00p
Expected volatility 33% 63%
Risk-free rate 1.87% 2.50%
Expected life 5 years 5 years
Executive scheme
Weighted average exercise price 1,154.68p 669.85p
Expected volatility 34% 63%
Risk-free rate 1.28% 2.50%
Expected life 3.8 years 4 years
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 87 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and with its directors and members of the Executive Committee (the “key 
management personnel”). Transactions between the Company and its key management personnel are disclosed below. Details of transactions 
between the Company and other related parties are also disclosed below. 
Trading transactions
The Company entered into the following transactions with directors within the Hargreaves Lansdown Group and related parties who are not members 
of the Group:
During the years ended 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 the Company has been party to a lease with P K Hargreaves, a current director and S P 
Lansdown, a director until 23 November 2012, for rental of the old head office premises at Kendal House. A ten-year lease was signed on 6 April 
2011 for a rental of part of the building, to be used for disaster recovery purposes at a market rate rent of £105,000 per annum. No amount was 
outstanding at either year-end. Shortly before 30 June 2013 P K Hargreaves bought out the 50% ownership in Kendal House held by S P Lansdown. 
During the year the Company settled certain personal expenses on behalf of one director, all of which were subject to subsequent reimbursement 
from the director. The maximum outstanding at any one time was £5,444. At the year end the amount outstanding was £4,999 which was repaid on 
23 July 2014. No interest was paid on these amounts.
During the years ended 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 the Group has provided a range of investment services in the normal course of business to 
shareholders, directors and staff on normal third party business terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group, being those personnel who were either a member of the Board of a Group 
company or a member of the Executive Committee during the relevant year shown below, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories 
specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
In addition to the above key management personnel received gains of £2,999,000 relating to the Joint Share Ownership Plan (2013: £11,364,000) 
and £12,168,000 relating to the exercise of share options (2013: £1,438,000).  
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 8,813 11,035
Post-employment benefits 590 416
Termination benefits 50 -
Share-based payments 1,141 1,528
10,594 12,979
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
Included within the previous table are the following amounts paid to directors of the Company who served during the relevant year. Full details of 
directors’ remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Committee report. 
In addition to the above, directors of the Company received gains of £nil relating to the Joint Share Ownership Plan (2013: £7,829,000) and 
£9,016,000 relating to the exercise of share options (2013: £1,438,000).
Any amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received in respect of 
amounts outstanding. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties. 
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values. Market values have been used to 
determine the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale financial assets where there is a quoted market price. Investments in 
equity instruments which do not have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at 
cost which the directors believe is not significantly different to fair value. 
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no reduction in level 3 assets during the year (2013: £nil).
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 3,318 4,459
Post-employment benefits 108 94
Share-based payments 278 733
3,704 5,286
Level 1
£’000
Level 2
£’000
Level 3
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 30 June 2014
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 610 - - 610
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 264 264
610 - 264 874
At 30 June 2013
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 349 - - 349
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 264 264
349 - 264 613
Emoluments of the highest paid director 2,036 2,836
Number of directors who exercised share options during the year 2 2
Number of directors who were members of money purchase pension schemes 2 2
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 89 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management
 Financial assets principally comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and current asset listed and unlisted investments. 
Financial liabilities comprise certain provisions and trade and other payables. The main risks arising from financial instruments are market risk 
(including interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk), liquidity risk, and credit risk. Each of these risks is discussed in detail below. 
 The Group monitors financial risks on a consolidated basis. Hargreaves Lansdown’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic 
objectives and good corporate practice. No hedging transactions have taken place during the years presented. The Group has designed a framework 
to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the directors have in place risk management practices appropriate to a listed company. The 
management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board. 
(b) Market risk
• Interest rate risk
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest-bearing assets. There is an exposure to interest 
rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business. At 30 June 2014 the value of financial instruments on the Group balance sheet 
exposed to interest rate risk was £201.24 million (2013: £177.75 million) comprising cash and cash equivalents. A 50bps (0.5%) move in interest 
rates, in isolation, would impact investment income by c. £1.1 million per annum. This impact, after taking into account the corresponding increase/
decrease in the Group’s tax charge, would lead to a change in retained profit for the year. This exposure is continually monitored to ensure that the 
Group is maximising its interest earning potential within accepted liquidity and credit constraints. The Group has no external borrowings and as such 
is not exposed to interest rate or refinancing risk on borrowings. Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
Short-term deposits are also made for varying periods of between one day and 13 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Group and earn interest at the respective fixed term deposit rates. 
 
 As a source of revenue is based on the value of client cash under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to interest rate risk on cash 
balances held for clients. These balances are not on the Group balance sheet but amounted to £4,045 million (2013: £3,561 million). 
• Foreign exchange translation and transaction risk
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates. With substantially 
all of the Group’s businesses located within the UK, and therefore with minimal net assets and transactions of the Group denominated in foreign 
currencies, the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange translation or transaction risk and as such does not hedge any foreign current 
assets or liabilities. The Group deals in foreign currencies on a matched basis on behalf of clients, limiting foreign exchange exposure. Given the 
limited nature of transactions and assets involving foreign currencies no sensitivity analysis has been conducted as the impact would be minimal.
•  Price risk
 Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts on the profitability of the Group as a result of an asset not meeting its 
expected value. The Group is exposed to price risk on corporate investments held on the Group balance sheet. At 30 June 2014, the fair value of 
investments recognised on the Group balance sheet was £874,000 (2013: £613,000). A 20% move in equity prices, in isolation, would not have a 
material impact on the Group balance sheet or results.
 As a main source of revenue is based on the value of client assets under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to security price risk 
on investments held for clients. These assets are not on the Group balance sheet. The risk of lower revenues is partially mitigated by asset class 
diversification. The Group does not hedge its revenue exposure to movements in the value of client assets arising from these risks, and so the 
interests of the Group are aligned to those of its clients.
 
 In addition, the Group acts as a private client investment manager, unit trust manager and agency stockbroker on a matched basis so its exposure 
to market price movements in this capacity is limited to when there is a trade mismatch or error, or if one matched counterparty fails to fulfil its 
obligations. The impact of these risks is minimised by limits and monitoring controls.
 (c) Liquidity risk
 The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, namely the risk that it may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. The Group is highly 
cash generative and holds significant liquid assets. The Group actively maintains a proportion of cash balances on short-term deposit to ensure that 
the Group has sufficient available funds for operations.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
 The table below analyses the maturities of the undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities of the Group based on the remaining period to 
the contractual maturity date at the balance sheet date.
(d) Credit risk
 The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk as credit exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
 Within the Group’s Stockbroking operation, the Group is exposed to credit risk from counterparties to a securities transaction during the period 
between the trade date and the settlement date. This period is generally three business days. The Group has credit exposure that extends 
beyond the original settlement date if the counterparty fails either to make payment or to deliver securities. These transactions are with 
financial institutions and clients. Settlement risk is substantially mitigated as a result of the delivery versus payment mechanism whereby, if a 
counterparty fails to make payment, the securities would not be delivered to the counterparty. In that instance, the securities could be sold in the 
market and therefore the economic substance of the transaction is that securities serve as collateral in the case of delivery versus payment trade 
debtors. As a result, the risk exposure is effectively to an adverse movement in market prices between the time of trade and settlement. 
 Other credit risk within the Group is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and the majority represents balances due from other regulated 
financial institutions where there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and institution. Credit risk is therefore considered to be limited. 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is 
an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
 Cash is held with UK banks. The credit risk on liquid funds is minimised because the counterparties are banks with strong credit-ratings 
assigned by international credit-rating agencies. The Group takes a conservative approach to treasury management and selection of banking 
counterparties, and carries out regular reviews of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings. 
 The following table discloses the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets:
*The prior period comparatives have been restated as a result of a change in accounting policy. The impact of this is disclosed in Note 1.
0-3 months
£’000
3-6 months
£’000
6-12 months
£’000
Over 1 year
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2014
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 242,153 - - - 242,153
Other payables 16,385 - - - 16,385
258,538 - - - 258,538
At 30 June 2013
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables 231,192 - - - 231,192
Other payables 7,311 - - - 7,311
238,503 - - - 238,503
At 30 June 2014
£’000
At 30 June 2013*
£’000
Receivables at cost:
Cash and cash equivalents 201,238 177,754
Trade and other receivables 303,863 284,215
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 610 349
Available-for-sale financial assets:
Financial investments 264 264
505,975 462,582
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
 The following table contains an analysis of financial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date. An asset is past due when 
the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
*The prior period comparatives have been restated as a result of a change in accounting policy. The impact of this is disclosed in Note 1.
 
The table below shows the credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired using the following counterparty gradings:
• Financial institutions
 In respect of trade receivables, £21.9 million (2013: £13.6 million) is due from financial institutions regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in the course of settlement as a result of daily trading and £114.0 million (2013: £15.6 million) relates to revenue items due from financial 
institutions regulated by the FCA. 
 For prepayments and accrued income, the balance predominantly relates to accrued interest due from financial institutions regulated by the FCA on 
own and client cash balances.
• Corporate clients 
 Prepayments relating to businesses other than financial institutions, mainly purchase suppliers.
• Individuals
 In respect of trade receivables, the balance is related to amounts due from individual clients in the course of settlement as a result of daily trading. 
 
 For prepayments and accrued income, the balance includes management fees and charges due from clients.
Neither impaired 
nor past due
£’000
0-3 months 
past due
£’000
3-6 months 
past due
£’000
6-12 months 
past due
£’000
Over 12 months 
past due
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2014
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 252,363 8,386 657 770 81 262,257
Other receivables 6,039 - - - - 6,039
Prepayments and accrued income 35,567 - - - - 35,567
293,969 8,386 657 770 81 303,863
Held-for-trading assets 610 - - - - 610
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - - - 264
294,843 8,386 657 770 81 304,737
At 30 June 2013*
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables 247,262 2,039 244 107 45 249,697
Other receivables 962 - - - - 962
Prepayments and accrued income 33,556 - - - - 33,556
281,780 2,039 244 107 45 284,215
Held-for-trading assets 349 - - - - 349
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - - - 264
282,394 2,039 244 107 45 284,829
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Capital management
Capital is defined as the total of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves. Total capital at 30 June 2014 was £228.3 million 
(2013: £197.1 million) and this capital is managed via the net assets to which it relates. 
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are i) to safeguard the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; ii) to maintain a strong 
capital base and utilise it efficiently to support the development of its business; and iii) to comply with the regulatory capital requirements set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group’s management and Board. 
All regulated entities within the Group are required to comply with the requirements set by the FCA and must meet the Pillar 1 regulatory Capital 
Resources Requirements (CRR) set out in the Capital Requirements Directive (the “Directive”). The CRR is the higher of i) the fixed overhead 
requirement and ii) the sum of the credit risk capital requirement and the market risk capital requirement. 
The Group is also required to comply with the requirements of the Directive under Pillar 2 (Operational Risk) and Pillar 3 (Disclosure) in respect of the 
Group’s regulatory capital requirements. The Directive requires continual assessment of the Group’s risks in order to ensure that the higher of Pillar 1 
and 2 requirements is met, the objective being to ensure that the regulated firms have adequate capital to enable them to manage their risks. 
The Group completes its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) 
under Pillar 2, which is a forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major risks, such as a significant market downturn, and identifying 
mitigating action. The ICAAP covers current as well as projected capital requirements, and is used to manage regulatory capital. Under the 
requirements of Pillar 3, the Group is required to disclose regulatory capital information, and has done so by making the disclosures available in the 
Group’s website at http://www.hl.co.uk/investor-relations/pillar-3-disclosures.
Regulatory capital is determined in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive prescribed in the UK by the FCA, and the 
Group’s regulatory capital is divided into two tiers:
- Tier 1 capital, which is the total of issued share capital, retained earnings and reserves created by appropriations of retained earnings, net of the 
book value of goodwill and other intangible assets; and 
-  Tier 2 capital, which is unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
All of the regulated firms maintained surplus regulated capital throughout the year. The aggregated regulatory Pillar 1 capital surplus across the 
four regulated subsidiaries was approximately £63.3 million at 30 June 2014 (2013: £47.1 million).The regulated subsidiaries may be limited in the 
distributions that can be paid up to the parent by their individual capital requirements. 
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Financial 
institutions
£’000
Corporate 
clients
£’000
Individuals
£’000
Total
£’000
At 30 June 2014
Trade receivables 60,718 18 191,628 252,364
Other receivables 6,039 - - 6,039
Prepayments and accrued income 20,022 4,346 11,199 35,567
Held-for-trading assets 610 - - 610
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - 264
87,653 4,364 202,827 294,844
At 30 June 2013
Trade receivables 29,268 73 217,921 247,263
Other receivables 962 - - 962
Prepayments and accrued income 28,180 3,757 1,619 33,556
Held-for-trading assets 349 - - 349
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - 264
59,023 3,830 219,540 282,393
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 93 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Parent Company Balance Sheet
Note
At 30 June 2014
£’000
At 30 June 2013 
Restated
1
£’000
At 30 June 2012 
Restated
1
 
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investments 4 2,152 2,152 2,152
Deferred tax assets 5 21 26 31
2,173 2,178 2,183
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6 192 6,319 104
Cash and cash equivalents 7 188,172 162,016 127,063
Investments 4 - - 1,657
188,364 168,335 128,824
Total assets 190,537 170,513 131,007
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 8 64,577 46,655 40,319
Current tax liabilities 140 10 126
64,717 46,665 40,445
Net current assets 123,647 121,670 88,379
Total liabilities 64,718 46,665 40,445
Net assets 125,820 123,848 90,562
EQUITY
Share capital 10 1,897 1,897 1,897
Share premium account 11 8 8 8
Investment revaluation reserve 11 - - 177
Capital redemption reserve 11 12 12 12
Retained earnings 11 123,903 121,931 88,468
Total equity, attributable to the owners of the parent 125,820 123,848 90,562
1 Restated as described in Note 2 to the Company financial statements
The financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc, registered number 02122142, on pages 93 to 100 were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 16 September 2014.
Ian Gorham  Tracey Taylor 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
 Share capital
£’000
 Share premium 
account
£’000
 Investment 
revaluation 
reserve
£’000
 Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
 Retained earnings
£’000
 Total
£’000
At 1 July 2012 1,897 8 177 12 88,468 90,562
Profit for the period - - - - 144,687 144,687
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets - - (177) - - (177)
Total comprehensive income - - (177) - - (177)
Dividend paid - - - - (111,223) (111,223)
At 30 June 2013 1,897 8 - 12 121,931 123,848
Profit for the period - - - - 143,985 143,985
Other comprehensive income:-
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets - - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - - - -
Dividend paid - - - - (142,013) (142,013)
At 30 June 2014 1,897 8 - 12 123,903 125,820
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Company, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares.
Details of the Company’s dividends are as set out in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 95 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows
Note
Year ended 30 
June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
1
£’000
Net cash from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 9 24,074 221
Income tax paid (68) (256)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 24,006 (35)
Investing activities
Interest received 563 790
Dividends received from investments 143,600 144,100
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments 1 1,320
Net cash from investing activities 144,164 146,210
Financing activities
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (142,013) (111,223)
Net cash used in financing activities (142,013) (111,223)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 26,156 34,953
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 162,016 127,063
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 7 188,172 162,016
1 Restated as described in Note 2 to the Company financial statements
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 whose 
shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol BS1 
5HL, United Kingdom. The Company is the parent company of the Hargreaves Lansdown plc Group, and the nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are set out in the Business Review. 
The Company financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Company operates. 
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law. 
The Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. The directors believe that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the date the financial statements are adopted. 
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those of the Group which are set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, 
except that it has no policy in respect of consolidation and investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost, less any
provisions for impairment.
During the year there has been a change in the policy relating to how cash balances are recognised within the Company and subsidiary companies 
in pooled treasury situations. Previous policy was to recognise cash balances which form part of a group treasury arrangement within the originating 
legal entity. During the year it was decided that recognition of these group treasury balances should follow the legal form of the treasury arrangement 
with the cash recognised within the company that is externally contractually entitled to the cash balance, and with group treasury balances 
recognised as intercompany balances between the Company and its subsidiary companies. This accounting policy change results in the following 
balance sheet reclassifications but has no impact on retained profits or earnings per share.
3. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company. 
The Company’s profit after tax for the year was £143,985,329 (2013: £144,686,825).
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
At 30 June 2014
£’000
At 30 June 2013
£’000
At 30 June 2012
£’000
Amounts payable to subsidiaries, as previously stated 5,456 15 18,355
Reclassification as cash balance 59,048 46,550 21,867
Amounts payable to subsidiaries, as restated 64,504 46,565 40,222
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries, as previously stated 112 1,150 32
Reclassification as cash balance (112) 4,893 -
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries, as restated - 6,043 32
Cash and cash equivalents, as previously stated 129,012 120,359 105,196
Reclassification from amounts due to/from subsidiaries 59,160 41,657 21,867
Cash and cash equivalents, as restated 188,172 162,016 127,063 97 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
4. INVESTMENTS
No investments are classified as available-for-sale (2013: £nil).
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in the UK is shown below. Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost, which is 
the fair value of the consideration paid. All subsidiaries have one ordinary class of share only and unless disclosed otherwise below all shares are held by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc. 
• Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Ltd (formerly Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct - 100% shares held)
 Advisory services
• Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd (100% shares held)
 Unit trust equity broking, investment fund management, life and pensions consultancy
• Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd (100% shares held)
 Unit trust management
• Library Information Services Ltd (75% shares held)
 Data provider
• Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Ltd (100% shares held)
 Stockbroking
• Hargreaves Lansdown Nominees Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Nominee services
• Hargreaves Lansdown Insurance Brokers Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown Investment Management Ltd (100% shares held by Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Limited)*
 Dormant company 
• Hargreaves Lansdown IT & Administration Services Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Ltd (100% shares held by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited)*
 Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Trustees Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Dormant company
• Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust
• Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Ltd (100% shares held)*
 Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan
* Exempt from audit
Year ended 30 
June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
£’000
Investments in subsidiaries
At beginning of year 2,152 3,809
Sales - (1,657)
At end of year 2,152 2,152
Comprising:
Non-current investments - Investments in subsidiaries valued at cost less impairment 2,152 2,152
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
5. DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax has been 
recognised at 20%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date. 
6. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Other receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or 
loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. 
2013 balances relating to amounts owed by subsidiaries have been restated for a change in accounting policy as explained in Note 2.
7. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and institutional cash funds with near-instant access held by the Group. 2013 balances have been restated for a 
change in accounting policy as explained in Note 2. 
No disclosures for financial instruments have been made in respect of the Company as the only significant financial instruments held by the Company are 
cash and cash balances as shown above.
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£’000
Other deductible 
temporary 
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 July 2012 20 11 31
Charge to income (5) - (5)
At 30 June 2013   15 11 26
Charge to income (4) (1) (5)
At 30 June 2014 11 10 21
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 2013
£’000
Financial assets:
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT - 6,043
Other receivables - -
- 6,043
Non-financial assets:
Prepayments and accrued income 192 276
192 6,319
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents:
Group cash and cash equivalent balances 188,172 162,016
188,172 162,016 99 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
8. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Amounts due from subsidiaries comprise short-term lending to subsidiaries, repayable on demand. The fair values of amounts owed by subsidiaries are 
equal to their carrying amounts. No provisions have been recognised in respect of amounts owed by subsidiaries. 
2013 balances relating to amounts payable to subsidiaries have been restated for a change in accounting policy as explained in Note 2. 
9. NOTES TO THE COMPANY STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
10. SHARE CAPITAL 
Details of the Company’s share capital are as set out in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. RESERVES 
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued and was unchanged at £8,000 
throughout the 2013 and 2014 financial years. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Company, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares and was unchanged at £12,000 throughout the 
2013 and 2014 financial years. 
Details of the movements in Retained Earnings are set out in the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity.
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
£’000
Financial liabilities:
Amounts payable to subsidiaries 64,504 46,565
Social security and other taxes 4 4
Other payables 30 27
64,538 46,596
Non-financial liabilities:
Accruals and deferred income 39 59
64,577 46,655
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
£’000
Profit for the year after tax 143,985 144,687
Adjustments for:
Investment revenues (144,163) (144,890)
Other (gains)/losses (1) 159
Income tax expense 204 144
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 25 100
Decrease/(Increase) in receivables 6,127 (6,214)
Increase in payables 17,922 6,335
Cash generated from operations 24,074 221
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
12. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The key management personnel of the Group and the Company are the same. The relevant disclosures are given in note 27 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
The Company has no employees (2013: nil).
As discussed in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group provides share-based compensation to employees through a number of 
schemes; these are all in relation to shares in the Company and the cost of providing those benefits is recharged to the employing companies in the Group.
The Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and the Employee Benefit Trust, which are related parties.
Any amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received in respect of 
amounts outstanding. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties.
13. EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE
Events after balance sheet date of the Company are the same as those of the Group which are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements. 
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£’000
Year ended 30 
June 2013
£’000
Dividends received from subsidiaries 143,600 144,100
Management charges to subsidiaries 716 718
Amount owed to related parties at 30 June 5,456 15
Amounts owed by related parties at 30 June 112 1,150 101 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Directors, Company Secretary, Advisers 
and Shareholder Information
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Ian Gorham
Peter Hargreaves 
Tracey Taylor
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Chris Barling
Michael Evans
Shirley Garrood
Dharmash Mistry
Stephen Robertson 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Judy Matthews
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , Bristol
SOLICITORS
Osborne Clarke LLP , Bristol
Burges Salmon LLP , Bristol
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Lloyds Bank plc, Bristol
BROKERS
Barclays 
Numis Securities Limited
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
REGISTERED OFFICE
One College Square South
Anchor Road
Bristol
BS1 5HL
WEBSITE
www.hl.co.uk 
COMPANY NUMBER
02122142
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Five Year Summary
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Revenue 358,393 292,403 238,741 207,904 158,970
Commission payable / loyalty bonus (66,526) (23,205) (16,356) (15,698) (11,824)
Net revenue * 291,867 269,198 222,385 192,206 147,146
Operating costs (83,014) (77,270) (66,999) (64,115) (57,335)
Underlying operating profit 208,853 191,928 155,386 128,091 89,811
One-off operating costs ** - - - - (4,429)
FSCS costs *** (832) 532 (4,774) (3,646) -
Operating profit 208,021 192,460 150,612 124,445 85,382
Investment revenue 1,768 2,879 2,229 1,496 854
Other (losses) and gains (3) (155) (2) 72 59
Profit before tax 209,786 195,184 152,839 126,013 86,295
Tax (47,052) (46,195) (39,520) (34,066) (25,020)
Profit after tax 162,734 148,989 113,319 91,947 61,275
Equity minority interests (643) (598) (359) (127) (9)
Profit for the financial year attributable to  
owners of the parent company 162,734 148,391 112,960 91,820 61,266
Equity shareholders’ funds 227,753 196,622 156,994 130,801 66,114
Weighted average number of shares for the 
purposes of diluted EPS (million) 474.37 471.92 469.42 469.07 468.42
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Equity dividends per share paid during year 30.29 23.79 19.47 6.78 16.636
Basic earnings per share 34.5 31.7 24.2 19.8 13.2
Diluted earnings per share 34.2 31.4 24.1 19.6 13.1
Underlying basic earnings per share - - - 20.3 14.0
Underlying diluted earnings per share - - - 20.0 13.9
*As highlighted on page 14 of the Business Review, following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review in March 2014, the gross reported revenue was boosted by a new revenue 
stream and at the same time loyalty bonuses paid to Vantage clients were significantly increased. In order to better compare revenue performance across the five years above, net revenue 
which is total revenue less the commission payable and loyalty bonus has been shown. 
**Relates to the costs of an office move
***Relates to the operating costs of the running of and the levies relating to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). In 2011 these costs were shown split between one-off costs of 
£3,036k and administrative expenses of £610k. 103 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Definition of terms
AGM Annual General Meeting
Asset retention rate Based on the monthly lost AUA as a percentage of the opening months AUA and averaging for the year
AUA Assets Under Administration is the total value of all assets administered or managed by Hargreaves Lansdown on behalf of its clients
AUM Assets Under Management is the total value of all assets managed by Hargreaves Lansdown comprising our Multi-Manager funds and assets held 
within PMS 
Basic EPS Basic Earnings Per Share
Board The board of directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc
Client retention rate Based on the monthly lost clients as a percentage of the opening months total clients and averaging for the year
Company Hargreaves Lansdown plc
CRC Energy efficiency scheme The Carbon Reduction Commitment efficiency scheme is a mandatory government scheme aimed at improving energy efficiency and cutting 
emissions in large public and private sector organisations
Corporate Vantage Our corporate wrap allows employers to offer the benefits of the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage service to employees via the workplace
CTF Child Trust Fund
Diluted EPS Diluted Earnings Per Share
EBT Employee Benefit Trust
FCA Financial Conduct Authority, the regulator of the UK financial services industry 
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Fund of Funds An investment strategy whereby a portfolio is created by investing in funds rather than directly into equities and other securities
Group Hargreaves Lansdown plc and its controlled entities
HL Hargreaves Lansdown
HL Live Apps A software application which is designed for use on mobile phones and other portable electronic devices to allow clients access to their accounts 
and other information on the move
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
IFA Independent Financial Advisor
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IMA Investment Management Association
Investment Supermarket Platform A service which allows clients to buy, sell and hold a wide range of investments in one place
ISA Individual Savings Account
IT Information Technology
JSOP Joint Share Ownership Plan
Loyalty Bonus A reward to customers for holding certain collective investments within the Vantage wrapper. This is paid on a regular basis as a percentage of 
qualifying assets
LTIP Long term incentive plan
Master Portfolios An interactive tool to help investors start their own portfolio. It provides five portfolios with different levels of risk and time horizons
Multi-Manager funds A range of funds offered by Hargreaves Lansdown which are managed under the fund of funds format
Net new business inflows Represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less cash withdrawals, cash and stock transfers out
Number of new Clients Unique number of clients holding at least one account (PMS, ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account) with a value greater than £100 at the year-end
OEIC Open Ended Investment Company
Net operating profit margin Operating profit (profit before investment gains) divided by net revenue
Net revenue Total revenue less commission paid , which is primarily the loyalty bonus paid to clients 
Organic growth Growth in assets under administration can be attributed to two main causes. The first is growth due to the appreciation in the value of existing 
assets and the second is organic growth through additional contributions
Pillar 1 and 2 capital requirements The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision set out certain capital requirements which must be met by qualifying financial institutions
Platforum The advisory and research business specialising in investment platforms which compiles the "Direct Platform Guide"
PMS Portfolio Management Service
RDR Retail Distribution Review
SAYE scheme Save As You Earn scheme
SIPP Self-invested Personal Pension
Treating clients fairly A central concept to the FSA's retail regulatory agenda, which aims to ensure an efficient and effective market and thereby help consumers achieve 
a fair deal
UK Corporate Governance Code A code with sets out standards for best boardroom practice with a focus on board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and 
relations with shareholders
Vantage The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-investor platform
Wealth 150 A research-led list of our favourite funds for new investment in the main fund sectors
Year-end/financial year Our financial year starts on 1 July and ends on 30 June
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the 
Company and no-one else. The Company, its Directors, employees or 
agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in 
connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability 
is expressly disclaimed. Certain statements included or incorporated 
by reference within this report may constitute “forward-looking 
statements” in respect of the group’s operations, performance, 
prospects and/or financial condition. By their nature, forward-looking 
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions 
and actual results or events may differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by those statements. Accordingly, no assurance 
can be given that any particular expectation will be met and reliance 
should not be placed on any forward-looking statement. Additionally, 
forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should 
not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will 
continue in the future. No responsibility or obligation is accepted to 
update or revise any forward-looking statement resulting from new 
information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this report should 
be construed as a profit forecast. 
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation 
to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares or other 
securities in the company, nor shall it or any part of it or the fact of 
its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, 
any contract or commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, 
nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares and 
other securities of the company. Past performance cannot be relied 
upon as a guide to future performance and persons needing advice 
should consult an independent financial adviser. Statements in this 
report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time 
of its preparation. Liability arising from anything in this report shall 
be governed by English Law. Nothing in this report shall exclude any 
liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance 
with such laws.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
Registered number 02122142
www.hl.co.uk
Registered number 02122142
