  
 
 
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC 
 
 
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013  One College Square South, 
Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
www.hl.co.uk
Hargreaves Lansdown plc
Report and Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2013
The Directors’ report and  
business review
Overview
Highlights ................................................................................ 1
Our services ...........................................................................2
Chairman’s statement ....................................................... 8
Strategic review
Chief Executive’s review ................................................. 10
Strategic priorities and progress ...................................14
Performance review
Business and financial review ...................................... 16
Key performance indicators ...........................................21
Financial review .................................................................22
Principal risks and uncertainties ..................................25
Corporate social responsibility .....................................28
Governance
Board of directors .............................................................32
Corporate governance .....................................................34
Directors’ report: other information ............................43
Directors’ remuneration report .....................................45
Directors’ responsibilities statement .........................55
Independent auditor’s report ........................................56
Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement .................................58
Consolidated and Company statements of  
comprehensive income ...................................................58
Consolidated and Company statements of  
changes in equity ..............................................................59
Consolidated and Company balance sheets ............61
Statement of cash flows ................................................62
Notes to the financial statements ...............................63
Directors, company details, advisers ................ 88
Five-year summary ..................................................... 89
Definition of terms ...................................................... 90 We aim to help investors make  
more of their investments.  
We do this by providing the 
best information, the best service 
and the best prices.
Our clients saved more than £234 million 
on investment charges last year.  
On average that’s a saving of more than 
£870 for each of the 268,000 clients 
who purchased an investment through us 
in the year.
At a glance... 
We have been helping clients choose and manage 
investments since 1981 and are now the UK’s largest 
direct to investor ‘investment supermarket’ with an annual 
turnover in excess of £292 million.  We administer more 
than £36 billion of investments in our ISA, SIPP and 
Investment accounts for over 507,000 clients, and have 
arranged investments for over a million clients.
Our success is built around providing our clients a high 
quality service tailored to their needs.  Our knowledgeable 
and helpful staff, technology and experience enable us to 
provide a high quality and convenient service to our clients.   1 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Highlights
Profit before tax increased by 28% to £195.2m
Continued strong organic growth in Assets Under Administration
18% increase in the number of clients
Total dividend up 31% at 29.59 pence per share
£36.4 billion
Value of investments 
administered for clients,  
a 38% increase.
7 million
Number of trades dealt 
for clients in the year, 
a 25% increase.
£5.1 billion
Value of net new business 
inflows, a 59% increase. 
507,000
Number of clients, up by 
76,000, an 18% increase.
Revenue (£m)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) Dividend per share (pence)
Profit before tax (£m)
2009
132.8
2009
11.1
2009
73.1
2009
10.10
159.0
2010
13.1
2010
86.3
2010
11.88
2010
207.9
2011
19.6
2011
126.0
2011
18.87
2011
238.7
2012
24.1
2012
152.8
2012
22.59
2012
292.4
2013
31.4
2013
195.2
2013
29.59
2013
£292.4m
31.4p 29.59p
£195.2m 2 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Our services
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more of their 
money throughout their life.  We have established a reputation for 
providing high quality service and value-for-money products to 
private investors, whether they are making their own investment 
decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service. 
Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments. 
Clients can hold all their funds, shares, 
ETFs, bonds, investment trusts, ISAs and 
self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) in a 
single, low cost, easy-to-manage place.
Whether a first time investor or wanting to 
improve the way that existing investments 
are managed, our aim is to give our 
clients all the tools, help and information 
they need to make their own investment 
decisions and save money. In effect we 
want to help people become their own 
financial adviser.
The Vantage Service allows clients to 
bring all their ISAs, Pensions (SIPPs), and 
funds and share accounts into one easy 
to manage place. It puts them in control. 
Clients can consolidate their investments 
– for example, pensions accumulated in 
previous employment – into the Vantage 
service to keep track of their investments 
and manage them in one place.  Clients can 
manage their investments by telephone, 
post, online or mobile.  Either way, by 
dealing with us directly, they can save time 
and money.
Vantage 
Corporate Vantage  
In addition to services for private individuals 
we are a leading provider and broker of 
corporate pension and wrap solutions. Our 
corporate wrap allows employees to benefit 
from the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage 
service via their workplace. Corporate 
Vantage includes award-winning SIPP , ISA, 
Fund and Share accounts.   
Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown 
also provides other services to companies 
including a market-leading retirement and 
annuity broking service allowing employees 
to obtain a higher income via our annuity 
search engine.  Our Corporate annuity 
and Corporate Vantage wrap services are 
provided to many household names:
Revenue
£227.2m +22%
Visit the website for the full range of services: 
www.hl.co.uk/investment-services
“Massively impressed. Changed all 
my small pension plans gathered over 
the years to HL. They fully kept me 
informed of each stage of the process 
and progress. Any questions I had were 
dealt with quickly and efficiently - would 
highly recommend.”
Mr Wade
Norwich 3 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Portfolio Management Service 
If clients are not able to give their 
investment portfolio the attention it 
deserves, our solution is the Portfolio 
Management Service.
Our experienced investment managers 
work closely with our research analysts  
to continually find the best fund managers 
for our portfolios. The portfolios are 
constantly reviewed by the manager and 
rebalanced to maintain the investment 
objectives. Where necessary, changes are 
made to the portfolios by the investment 
manager.
HL Multi-Manager Funds
HL Multi-Manager funds offer a broad, 
managed portfolio of funds through a 
single investment, for those who wish to 
leave the choice of underlying funds to our 
experts.
Whether they are a first time investor in 
need of a simple way to invest in the stock 
market or a more experienced investor 
looking for a broadly based fund around 
which to group specialised holdings, 
each HL Multi-Manager fund provides 
a professionally monitored portfolio of 
what we believe are some of the best fund 
managers in their field.
Discretionary service and managed funds 
Revenue 
£34.1m +25%
The Third Party and Other services division 
distributes investment products that are not 
held in Vantage accounts. 
Annuities service - a retirement 
service that could increase income 
by up to 40%
As the UK's number one annuity broker 
(source: MyTouchstone) we help individuals 
obtain a superior retirement income. Our 
annuity service enables clients to find a 
better pension income - in some health or 
lifestyle cases it can improve income by 
up to 40%. We provide instant personal 
no obligation quotes completely online in 
minutes, allowing clients to compare live 
annuity rates from the UK's top annuity 
providers across the open market.  The 
online annuity service is clear and simple to 
use, and is supported by our knowledgeable 
annuity specialists who are available to 
answer any query.   We also make this 
annuity service available to employers for 
use by their employees.
For those who prefer more flexibility and 
accept a higher risk approach, we also 
offer a very competitive Vantage Income 
Drawdown service to be used alongside 
or as an alternative to a secured annuity 
income. 
Certificated share dealing 
Most clients prefer the convenience and 
cost of the Vantage share dealing service.  
For those who prefer to hold paper share 
certificates our low cost, quick and easy 
Certificated Share Dealing Service allows 
clients to buy or sell shares in certificated 
form without fuss or inconvenience.
Other Services
We offer  a foreign currency service to both 
private clients and companies and for more 
sophisticated investors we offer the ability 
to invest in Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs),  
Contracts For Difference and Financial 
Spread Betting.   
Third party and other services
Revenue
£31.1m +21% 4 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Why clients choose 
Hargreaves Lansdown 
On this page we have set out some of the reasons why clients 
choose to use Hargreaves Lansdown. When choosing an investment 
service, the four most important considerations are:
1. Security 2. Excellent service
3. Convenience and ease 4. Value for money
Hargreaves Lansdown is a trusted brand 
and a financially secure business. We 
offer an exceptional range of investments 
and services, and have invested in skilled 
helpdesk staff and the latest technology to 
ensure that we provide a consistently high 
quality, accessible and convenient service. 
We do not set out to be the cheapest; 
instead we aim to offer the best value. 
We offer a range of information, tools and 
services for clients who prefer to choose 
their own investment as well as financial 
advice for those who want more help.
 
We aim to provide the best service, best 
information and best prices to ensure that 
we remain the best place in the UK to buy 
investments.
“I am always impressed with the 
excellent service from HL. Whether 
online or by phone, transactions are 
always dealt speedily and efficiently. 
Your advisers are always helpful 
and knowledgeable and phones are 
answered immediately.”
Mr Elliot 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
“I am most impressed with every aspect 
of the HL service. Queries have been 
answered promptly and courteously 
and processing of documentation has 
been speedy. 10/10.”
Mrs Dover 
Harrogate
Helpdesk
iPhone App
Data security 5 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Trust and security
A recognised, trusted and financially 
secure FTSE100 business. 
Dedicated to keeping our clients' 
investments safe and secure.
Excellent service
96%
*
 of clients rated our service as 
excellent, very good or good.
*Based on a survey of 13,833 respondents in May 2013.
Convenience and ease
Our mobile App has been 
downloaded 125,000+ times.
Helpful and  
knowledgeable staff
The average call response time of 
our helpdesks is 10 seconds.
Investment experts
We have been helping clients 
to make the most of their 
investments since 1981.
Trusted source of useful, 
independent information
The number of visits to our website 
this year was 44.5 million.
Advice when you need it
We offer financial advice, 
financial planning and portfolio 
management. Or tools and support 
to do it yourself.
Savings, value for money
In the last year we saved clients 
more than £234 million on 
investment charges.
Choice
A wide range of investments - 
2,500+ funds, plus UK, US and 
European shares, investment trusts, 
gilts, ETFs, bonds and cash.
Client focussed improvement 
We listen to our clients. Their 
feedback is key to how we improve 
and grow our services. 6 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Best service 
Best information
Best prices
Best information Best service i
• Clients can manage investments online, 
via our smartphone apps, by post or 
phone.
• Calls answered in less than 10 seconds 
on average. No automated lines, no 
'press one for this, or two for that’, our 
clients speak to a person based here in 
our Bristol office straightaway.
• We have more than 100 highly 
knowledgeable and friendly helpdesk 
staff who assist clients each day.
• Direct dealing line. Limit, fill or kill and 
worked orders on shares.
• Most emails answered within 4 hours, 
most letters within 24 hours.
• Our linked accounts service allows 
clients to manage all their family’s 
accounts from a single log in.
• Clients receive one valuation for all their 
ISAs, funds, shares and pension cutting 
paperwork and making it easier to stay in 
control.
• Clients receive one consolidated tax 
certificate making tax returns easier to 
complete.
• We continually invest to further improve 
our services.  
• We place enormous emphasis on 
research. Open the money pages of any 
quality weekend newspaper and you will 
almost always see one of our experts 
quoted. 
• We monitor over 90% of the funds that 
our clients hold (by number of investors), 
regularly sending updates by email. We 
also provide stock market research.
• Portfolio analysis tools are available online 
– clients can view detailed geographical 
and sector breakdowns of their portfolio to 
show exactly where they are invested.
• Our latest investment ideas via our 
acclaimed newsletter, the Investment 
Times, along with investment research 
and market comment to keep clients up to 
date with our views.
• Our research team also produce the 
Wealth 150 - a list of our favourite funds 
in each sector, Master Portfolios for 
those who want a starting point for an 
investment portfolio, and a range of multi-
manager funds for those who wish to go 
one step further and leave the choice of 
underlying funds entirely to our experts.
• Weekly sector reports from Shares 
Magazine and daily market updates by 
email, free of charge. Staying up-to-date 
with market news could not be easier.
• Thousands of fund and share factsheets 
available online, with charts and tools 
enabling clients to carry out their own 
analysis.
• Share price and news alerts service - 
instant notification by email if a share 
falls or rises to your desired price target. 
Clients can also register to receive the 
latest company announcements, as they 
are released, directly to their email inbox.
Investment Times iPad magazine 7 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Our website and digital apps
Best Prices
Our Research Team
£
• Initial discounts of up to 5.5% available 
on over 2,200 funds - saving up to £550 
on a £10,000 investment.
• Annual savings of up to 0.5% on over 
1,000 funds - saving another £100 per 
year on a holding of £40,000 with a 
typical loyalty bonus of 0.25%.
• No dealing commission charges to buy, 
sell or switch investment funds.
• Share dealing from £5.95 per deal and 
clients never pay more than £11.95 per 
deal online. We also offer a telephone 
dealing service.
• Price improvement service on share 
deals - when clients place a share 
deal, our price improvement system 
instantaneously requests quotes from 
up to 30 London Stock Exchange market 
makers and returns the best price for 
the deal. Using so many market makers 
means that in many cases we can get a 
better price than quoted on the market. 
• We employ more than 100 technical and 
IT staff working across IT development, 
support, infrastructure and security.  
This constant investment has enabled 
us to keep our systems and operations 
efficient and scalable, meaning that we 
can deliver both an excellent and great 
value service to our clients.
During the financial year our website 
(www.hl.co.uk) was visited 44.5 million 
times, up 46% on the previous year.  
These visits gave rise to over 466 million 
page views. In August 2013 our website 
was ranked 5th in the UK Business and 
Finance - Stocks and Shares category 
by Experian Hitwise compared to 7th in 
August 2012.
The iPhone and Android apps have been 
downloaded more than 125,000 times 
since their launch in August 2011.    We are 
continuing to build on this success with 
enhancements to the existing apps and the 
development of an iPad app which will be 
launched late 2013. 
“Very impressed with the efficiency and 
friendliness of HL staff - also with the 
discounts offered on dealing charges. I 
enjoy the challenge and responsibility of 
selecting my own choice of investments 
from the HL range of funds.”
Mr Stainer
Warwickshire 8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"The culture at 
Hargreaves 
Lansdown has 
been built around 
looking after the 
interests of our 
clients."
I have great pleasure in announcing our excellent results for the year 
ending 2013. The Group has enjoyed record new business flows and 
record new clients leading to a substantial increase in profits.
Chairman’s statement
These results speak for themselves.  We 
have increased margins, profits, funds 
under management and improved client 
satisfaction.  Hargreaves Lansdown 
continues to be a financially strong 
organisation with a clean, strong, debt-free 
balance sheet retaining a healthy margin 
over the regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements; a source of comfort to our 
clients.  Therefore after careful review of 
the company's future cash requirements, 
paying due regard to planned strategic 
initiatives, the Board has decided to 
increase the dividend by paying a second 
interim ordinary dividend of 14.38p per 
share (2012: 10.65p) and an increased 
special dividend of 8.91p per share (2012: 
6.84p) representing total dividends for the 
year of 29.59p per share (2012: 22.59p); an 
increase of 31%.
The culture at Hargreaves Lansdown 
has been built around looking after the 
interests of our clients and our business 
is now entrusted with over £36 billion 
of the UK public’s savings.  Its security 
is a vital part of the Board’s duties and 
good governance is key. Our Corporate 
Governance statement on pages 34 to 
42 details our compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.  
This year we also decided it was in the 
interests of shareholders to rotate our 
auditor.  We thank Deloitte for providing 
excellent service over the past 7 years, 
especially during the exciting times 
of our flotation in 2007.  Following a 
comprehensive tender process we shall be 
recommending the appointment of PwC at 
the Annual General Meeting. In line with 
governance guidelines we shall regularly 
review our auditor.  
Considerable Board time has been devoted 
to the sustainability of the business and 
the protection of our hard won reputation 
and standing. Our Board Effectiveness 
Review this year was particularly thorough, 
details of which are summarised on page 
36. The revisions we announced last year to 
our remuneration policy were well received 
by shareholders so we propose only minor 
amendments this year, details of which can 
be found on pages 45 to 54.
During the coming year, to meet new 
regulation in the form of the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) and the end of 
the commission era, we shall change the 
company’s pricing model.  This change will 
mainly be limited to clients holding fund 
investments.  We shall offer funds with 
lower annual management charges and at 
the same time introduce charges for the 
service we provide.  
Michael Evans
Chairman 9 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"Our people are 
integral to our 
success".
I am confident that these new measures 
will be introduced smoothly and efficiently.  
Whilst it will represent a significant change, 
fortunately our clients are faithful and 
enthusiastic about our service and I am 
confident they will reward us by embracing 
the new charging structure.
This year there have been no changes to 
the Board other than Stephen Lansdown 
stepping down at last November’s AGM 
as previously announced.  Accordingly, 
we seek to add to the existing strength, 
knowledge and experience of our Board 
with the appointment of at least one new 
Non-Executive Director.
As ever, the coming year will be a 
challenging one but I have every confidence 
that we will take it in our stride. Our 
people are integral to our success and, 
as always my gratitude goes to the Board 
and the talented people we employ for 
their continuing hard work, diligence and 
enthusiasm. 
Michael Evans
Chairman
10 September 2013
Excellent, courteous, professional, 
knowledgeable. These are comments we 
frequently hear about our staff.  We know we 
provide an excellent service to our clients, 
and we know that this is important to them, 
because they tell us.  
Our helpdesks handle up to 6,000 calls each 
day.  When clients or prospective clients call 
us, their call is answered promptly – usually 
in less than 10 seconds – and they speak to 
a person, not an automated message. 
This ‘service culture’ exists in every part of 
our business.  The ability to deliver such 
consistently high levels of service is rarely 
found in the financial services industry. 
We believe there is a special culture in 
Hargreaves Lansdown.  It wasn't created, 
it just exists.  It must be nurtured.  When 
people visit our offices they feel it.  They find 
the atmosphere and culture magnetic. 10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"We remain 
focused on client 
service, which 
leads to client 
recommendation 
and contributes 
to our growth 
and success."
Chief Executive’s
review
We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 30 June 2013, 
once again reporting record revenues (+22%) and operating profits (+28%).  
The most salient features are the record 
growth in net new business and clients.  
Net new business was £5.1 billion (+59%) 
and we welcomed 76,000 net new clients 
(+69%).  
We remain focused on client service, 
which leads to client recommendation and 
contributes to our growth and success.  
96% of clients rated our services as good, 
very good or excellent. 
Our identified areas of growth: private and 
occupational pensions; our investment 
supermarket; and the internet continue to 
be strategic priorities.  The forthcoming 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) is an 
opportunity to capitalise on our respected 
market position.  Our pioneering position 
in the growing popularity of self-directed 
investing is proving its worth.
Review of the economic background
Excessive debt is still a feature amongst 
countries, banks and individuals.  Some 
economic data with regard to employment 
figures in the UK and particularly the US is 
encouraging.  However, the volatile reaction 
of markets to any change of policy by 
institutions such as the US Federal Reserve 
acts as a reminder of the continuing fragile 
nature of the economic environment.  
Improvement in sentiment, allied to 
continued quantitative easing and low 
interest rates, served to improve stock 
markets during the year, with the FTSE All-
Share index advancing 14% in the year to 
30 June 2013.  
Hargreaves Lansdown's 2013 results
We report a record profit before tax of 
£195.2 million, up 28% on last year’s 
£152.8 million.  Our ability to attract and 
retain assets and clients has been key 
to our continued profitability.  We would 
single out our new pension incentives, 
improvements in the provision to look 
after family investments, the expansion of 
equity trading and the embracing of mobile 
technology as key successes.
We report a substantial 38% increase in 
client assets under administration from 
£26.3 billion to £36.4 billion. Net new 
business for the year was £5.1 billion (2012: 
£3.2 billion) with market movement and 
other factors adding a further £5.0 billion.  
An additional 76,000 investors (2012: 
45,000) became net new clients during the 
year taking total active clients for Vantage 
and advised services combined to 507,000. 
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive Officer     11 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Our Corporate Vantage service continues 
to expand, with 78 schemes live or in 
implementation (2012: 47).  This 66% 
increase in schemes has been accompanied 
by a 275% increase in Corporate Vantage 
assets, which have now passed the £350 
million mark.  Although this project remains 
long-term we remain delighted with the 
success to date.  
Our mission is to retain our position as the 
best place in the UK to buy investments.  
We are estimated to have 28% of the 
direct investing market (Source: The Direct 
Platform Guide Issue 3, February 2013), a 
market predicted to expand substantially, 
and over the last year we have increased 
assets, clients and market share.  For 
example, Hargreaves Lansdown saw an 
increase of 24.2% in Stocks and Shares 
ISA subscriptions in the 2012/13 tax year 
against the previous tax year, whereas UK 
overall Stocks and Shares ISA subscriptions 
increased by only 5.4% in the year.  
During the year we further improved our 
stockbroking services in nature and scope 
resulting in our share of the UK execution-
only stockbroking market rising to 19.4% 
(2012: 14.1% - source ComPeer XO Quarterly 
Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2013).  We 
also saw increased business in Investment 
Trusts, ETFs and passive funds.
None of this success would be possible 
without the confidence of our clients. 
We work hard to retain their loyalty by 
delivering high service levels and an 
efficient experience.
2013 market outlook
Whilst there is some indication that 
companies and economies have adapted 
to deal with the new paradigms of low 
interest rates and low growth, austerity is 
here to stay for some time.  A more positive 
environment may be developing, but short-
term volatility will remain, as markets react 
to any potential removal of stimuli.
Last year I wrote “we shall have to work 
hard to promote the benefits of investing.  
Reduced state support for the public means 
saving and investing is more important 
than ever.  There is little prospect of 
higher interest rates on cash in the near 
future so equities and bonds remain good 
alternatives for potential higher income…. 
equity markets also offer patient investors 
the opportunity for future capital growth.”  
The same remains true today.
Company outlook
During the year we consolidated our 
position as a leading FTSE 100 company.  
Our financial success has been built on 
continuing to deliver exceptional service, 
information and value.  As a profitable 
company with no debt we present the 
financial strength to give investors comfort.  
This also enables us to reinvest in our 
business and respond to competitor activity.
We continue to enhance our services and 
take advantage of the RDR, a regulatory 
development which requires short-
term operational systems changes but 
nevertheless offers opportunity.  As some 
Banks and financial advisers withdraw 
from the market we are presented with the 
opportunity to fill that gap profitably with 
our low-cost, efficient and trusted services.
In the 2014 financial year there will be 
some pressure on income earned from 
cash deposits, caused by the current 
extremely low interest rates. This has been 
exacerbated by the government’s “Funding 
for Lending” scheme which has reduced 
deposit rates significantly.
Throughout Hargreaves Lansdown’s history 
the cost of retail investing, including 
our own charges has reduced over time. 
We will continue to share the benefits of 
scale, technology and success with our 
clients in a virtuous circle. Our clients have 
previously rewarded us with increased 
volumes of business for our investment 
and we will work hard to encourage them to 
continue to do so.  For example, this year 
we have undertaken an exercise to improve 
discounts from investment providers, 
providing an additional edge in giving value 
to clients in return for their loyalty. 12 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
The impact of regulation
We expect regulatory change to continue, 
creating challenge and cost, but also 
opportunity. Hargreaves Lansdown has the 
scale, resources and innovative skills to 
cope with additional regulation which is an 
increasing barrier to entering or competing 
in our marketplace.
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 
remains a major theme.  We have benefited 
from “RDR Phase 1” introduced on 31 
December 2012 which relates mainly to 
financial advice.  Our advisory services 
were fee-based long before the rules were 
implemented.  New assets gathered from 
advice increased 42% to £786 million and 
our discretionary service, PMS, saw 31% 
growth in assets during the year.  The rules 
also encouraged a move to self-directed 
investment resulting in a flood of transfers 
of assets and clients gained from advisory 
businesses.  
The rules for “RDR Phase 2” were published 
on 26 April 2013.   The reforms require 
the unbundling of pricing on investment 
products and from 6 April 2014 fees for 
investment and platform services will be 
charged separately.  The rules are clear 
and we are confident about implementing 
these changes whilst maintaining our 
high service levels.  Our investment in 
negotiating lower charges for clients and 
our own investment in systems to facilitate 
low charges will result in the majority 
of clients paying less for their investing 
services in future.  We expect to introduce 
our new pricing model for funds in early 
2014.  
The impact of RDR Phases 1 and 2 will take 
a while to filter through. We do not expect 
RDR to cause any material disruption to 
profitability.  Provided the RDR changes 
are applied fairly to all companies, our 
proposition of a strong service and value 
offering to a loyal client base should help 
us to navigate the change well.  
The year saw two new regulators; the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) which 
replaced the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA).  We are now regulated by the FCA 
and consider we have a constructive 
relationship with regulators.  Whilst it is 
early days, we consider the conduct of the 
FCA at policy level, particularly in seeking 
engagement and consumer-friendly 
outcomes, to be positive.  
We encourage the new regulators to seek 
practical outcomes that make a difference 
to investors and reward good practices, 
resisting foisting vast paperwork and 
warnings that confuse, serve little useful 
purpose and add cost for consumers.  
Hargreaves Lansdown has been successful 
to date despite regulation and government 
apathy in supporting investing.  It is easier 
to promote gambling, alcohol or pay-day 
loans to the UK public than the concept 
of investing in reputable investments or 
financing British companies to support 
our economy.  That needs to change.  
The FCA, working with the Treasury, has 
the opportunity to take a fresh look at 
achieving sensible regulation and make it 
easier to encourage the UK public to invest. 
Contributions to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) continue 
to be a burden.  We are supportive of a 
safety net for retail investors but we remain 
critical of the way the FSCS is funded and 
some of its supplementary activities.  
We continue to campaign for a rational, 
sensible, economic compensation scheme, 
including having direct dialogue with the 
FSCS over our concerns.
Corporate citizenship and improving 
investing for the UK public
We see our purpose to be a safe custodian, 
offer a great service and exercise the UK 
public’s buying power on their behalf. We 
work tirelessly and innovatively researching 
how to help people make the most of their 
money.  One aspect of achieving this goal is 
to campaign on behalf of the retail investor 
to make investing easier and cheaper.
During the year we have supported the 
campaign for annuity “shopping around”; 
supported amendments to the Pensions Bill 
to potentially increase pensioner income; 
worked with political parties to simplify 
auto-enrolment; supported the IMA 
campaign for clearer charges and backed 
the FCA in promoting good regulation.
Over six million children cannot take 
advantage of Junior ISAs because they are 
locked into the obsolete Child Trust Funds 
(CTFs) - where there are fewer providers, 
less choice and often poorer returns.  After 
lobbying from Hargreaves Lansdown and 
others the Government has now agreed 
to consult on what we hope to be the first 
step in allowing CTFs to be transferred to 
superior Junior ISAs.
We support improved portability of client 
assets, encouraging retail investors to 
move easily from old, obsolete investment 
plans to better value modern products.  
We seek to remain the friend of the retail 
investor, whatever their financial means.  
Our new RDR pricing structure has been 
specifically designed to be fair, attractive 
and excellent value for both small and large 
investors. 
Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its 
corporate taxes in full in the UK, and we 
shall continue to seek to be a role model 
for how financial services companies can 
deliver a great service, reputable behaviour 
and profitability in harmony with the UK 
public.
Conclusion
I would again like to thank our clients, 
shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.  
Their continued support, good humour and 
efforts have delivered exceptional results.   
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive Officer   
10 September 2013 13 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Award winning 
services
The experience gained over 
four decades has allowed us 
to develop a service tailored 
precisely to the needs of private 
investors. 96% of our clients 
rate our service good, very good 
or excellent, we win numerous 
prestigious industry awards and 
our clients’ continued loyalty 
has created an enormously 
successful, and financially secure, 
blue chip company.
Our awards
For more information visit: 
www.hl.co.uk/about-us/our-awards
Best SIPP Provider 
Hargreaves Lansdown 
2007, 2008, 2009,
2010, 2011, 2012
Best Online Fund
Supermarket Provider
WINNER
Best User 
Experience
The Platforum
Corporate 
Platform/
Wrap provider 
of the year
Professional 
Pensions
Best Direct to 
Customer  
Platform
Aberdeen UK 
Platform Awards
Best Stocks 
& Shares ISA 
Provider
What Investment
Best Share/Fund 
Dealing Service
What Investment
Best Direct  
Platform
The Platforum
Best Financial 
Services plc
UK Stock Market 
Awards
Best SIPP 
Provider  
2007-2012
What Investment
Most effective 
pensions 
change strategy
Employee 
Benefits Awards
Best Online Fund 
Supermarket
Money AM Awards 14 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Strategic priorities and progress
Our 2013 priorities
Our aims Excellent service
Attract and retain clients Strategic objectives
Asset gathering
Generate profitable growth
• Continued commercial improvements 
to services to enhance the client 
experience.
• Extend the channels by which clients can 
use our services.
• In 2013 we maintained our excellent 
client retention rate of 94.5%. 
• 96% of clients responding to a May 2013 
survey rated our service as good, very 
good or excellent.
• Extended online services, further 
developments to iPhone and Android 
apps and development of an iPad app for 
launch later in 2013.
•  Family linked accounts introduced.
• Introduction of master portfolios.
• Service improvements including 
stockbroking initiatives, simple investing 
and wider research coverage to enhance 
the client experience.
• Superclean funds – better deals on 
investment funds to reduce the total 
expense ratio.
• Campaign on issues which affect our clients.
• In 2013, assets under administration 
(AUA) increased by £10.1 billion.  The 
asset retention rate remained very high 
at 93.6%.
• Corporate Vantage service gained an 
additional 31 corporate clients during the 
year with AUA as at 30 June 2013 of £355 
million (2012: £95 million).
• Value of transfers into Vantage up 52% 
year-on-year.
• Regular contributions up 15% year-on-
year.
• Progress the Investment Supermarket, 
Pensions and Digital initiatives. 
• Continued focus and refinement of digital 
marketing channels.
• Preparation for the implementation of 
RDR.
• Progress the Investment Supermarket 
strategy.
• Continued energy into new initiatives, 
such as Corporate Vantage and auto-
enrolment.
• Maximizing the use of mobile and digital 
media.
• Preparation for the implementation of RDR.
Progress against our objectives
Performance indicators 
2014 focus
2013 507 2013 5.1
2013 2013 94% 36.4
2012 432 2012 3.2
2012 2012 94% 26.3
2011 386 2011 3.5
2011 2011 92% 24.6
2010 336 2010 3.3
2010 2010 90% 17.5
2009 288 2009 2.0
2009 2009 93% 11.9
No. of active clients ('000) Net new business (£bn)
Vantage asset retention Assets under administration (£bn) 15 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Strategic priorities and progress
Our business model
Fund supermarkets and wrap 
platforms typically focus on servicing 
the IFA community.  Our investment 
supermarket goes direct to the 
private investor.  The Hargreaves 
Lansdown business model allows 
us to offer highly competitive prices 
to our clients and achieve strong 
profitability. We aim to create 
shareholder value by retaining 
our position as the best place in 
the UK for private investors to buy 
investments. 
Our strategy is focused on growing 
the value of assets we have under 
administration or management 
and consequently increasing 
our revenues and profitability. 
The growth is delivered through 
providing an excellent service to our 
clients whilst maintaining tight cost 
control and achieving efficiencies in 
order to improve our profit margin.
Efficiency improvements
Increase shareholder value
Quality staff
Satisfying careers for staff
• Continued investment into IT and a focus 
on mobile and digital technologies.
• Focus on industry automation 
improvements, including electronic re-
registration.
• Continue to develop the apprentice 
program for financial practitioners.
• Continue to offer share-based incentives 
to all staff where feasible to encourage 
share ownership amongst staff.
• The proportion of Vantage clients who 
manage their investments online has 
increased with 90% of share dealing in 
Vantage carried out online (2012: 87%). 
81% of our clients have registered for 
online access (2012: 78%).
• We have invested in our IT development 
capacity and initiatives to future proof 
our systems; principally through the 
recruitment of additional staff.
• Cost ratio (costs as a proportion of AUA) 
reduced by 3.7bps to 24.5bps. 
• Continued to develop financial advisers 
through our internal apprenticeship 
programme.
• Assisted 152 staff across the company in 
taking professional exams.
• Recruited additional IT developers and 
improved project management process.
• Retained all key management.
• Continued use of share incentives for key 
staff and SAYE scheme for all staff. 84.1% 
of eligible staff are in one or more SAYE 
schemes.
• Continued operational efficiency 
improvements, with particular focus 
on extending the range and take up of 
paperless and online services.
• Continued investment into IT, focus on 
mobile and digital technologies.
• Continue to offer share-based incentives 
to all   staff where feasible to encourage 
share ownership amongst staff.
• Ensure that remuneration schemes are in 
line with shareholder interests and foster 
appropriate behaviours.
2013 65.8 2013 728
2013 2013 81 402
2012 63.1 2012 657
2012 2012 78 363
2011 59.8 2011 643
2011 2011 74 323
2010 53.7 2010 628
2010 2010 71 253
2009 53.6 2009 607
2009 2009 66 219
Operating profit margin (%) Average number of staff
Proportion of online Vantage clients (%) Revenue per employee (£'000) 16 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
It has been a busy year.  We handled over 7 million dealing 
instructions on behalf of more than 507,000 clients.  Our website 
(www.hl.co.uk) was visited 44.5 million times, an increase of 46% on 
the previous year.  We now administer a record £36.4 billion of client 
assets.  Our focus has remained on providing excellent service and 
value, making Hargreaves Lansdown a natural choice for investors.
Business and financial review
"Our focus has remained 
on providing excellent 
service and value, making 
Hargreaves Lansdown a 
natural choice for investors."  
Assets Under Administration (AUA) and new business inflows
During the year the value of total AUA has increased by 38%. The Group achieved net new 
business inflows of £5.1 billion, and the positive impact of the rise in investment markets 
and other growth factors increased client assets by a further £5.0 billion.   Total AUA can 
be broken down as follows:
Business review
Net new business in the Vantage ISA, SIPP 
and other Vantage nominee accounts was 
respectively £1.8 billion, £1.9 billion and 
£1.1 billion (2012: £1.1 billion, £1.4 billion, 
£0.6 billion), in total £4.8 billion (2012: 
£3.1 billion). 
Net new business generated within PMS 
was also strong at £271 million (2012: £113 
million). The increase was assisted by an 
increase to the number of financial advisers 
employed by the Group this year. 
Investment markets improved during the 
year, with the average level of the FTSE All-
Share index being 10.4% higher compared 
to FY 2012, contributing to market growth of 
£4.7 billion in Vantage AUA and £0.3 billion 
in PMS.
The second half of the year is our busiest 
as the tax year-end is an important driver 
of new business.  This year £3.45 billion 
of net new business came in the second 
half. From 1 January 2013 we introduced a 
loyalty bonus on Vantage SIPP accounts. 
This encouraged new clients to open SIPP 
accounts and also pension transfers into 
 At 30 June At 30 June
 2013 2012 Movement
 (£'bn) (£'bn) (%)
Vantage Assets Under Administration (AUA) 34.2 24.6 +39%
Assets Under Administration and Management (AUM)   
- Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 2.1 1.6 +31%
- Multi-manager funds held outside of PMS 1.2 0.8 +50%
AUM Total 3.3 2.4 +38%
Less: 
Multi-manager funds (AUM) included in Vantage AUA (1.2) (0.8) +50%
Total Assets Under Administration 36.4 26.3 +38%
Tracey Taylor  
Chief Financial Officer     17 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
our SIPP . Phase 1 of RDR, introduced on 31 
December 2012, dictated that firms must 
offer transfer of client assets in stock, 
meaning that clients would no longer risk 
being “out of the market” for a period 
of time when transferring to Hargreaves 
Lansdown. This gave us an opportunity to 
significantly increase transfer business. 
Cash deposit rates on offer from banks 
have fallen to historically low levels, partly 
as a result of the government’s “Funding 
for Lending” scheme. Those seeking a 
higher return have turned to alternative 
investment options such as funds and 
shares, which offer higher yields and 
potential capital growth. This factor has 
spurred clients to divert more of their 
savings into investments in Vantage.
Increased investor confidence and rising 
markets in the second half of the year have 
also enhanced inflows of new assets.
More clients are investing through 
Hargreaves Lansdown than ever before. In 
total we now administer investments for 
over 507,000 clients.
The Group 
is organised 
into three core 
operating divisions, 
based around 
the products and 
services described 
on pages 2 and 3.
Divisional Group operating profit
Third Party and 
Other services
Vantage Discretionary and 
Managed
78% 12% 10% 18 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Vantage
The Vantage division increased its revenues 
by £41.5 million or 22%, from £185.7 million 
to £227.2 million. This was driven primarily 
by the 39% growth in AUA and the impact 
of a full year’s income on assets gathered 
during the previous year. 
The £4.8 billion growth in AUA resulting 
from net new business inflows, or ‘organic 
growth’, was 20% this year (2012: 13%). 
 
The increase in AUA derived from stock 
market and other growth factors was 
19% (2012: -6%). The combined impact of 
organic growth and market growth resulted 
in SIPP AUA growing by 37%, ISA by 36% 
and the Fund and Share account by 44%. 
Included within the Fund and Share account 
is a significant holding in Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc shares which increased in 
value by 68% during the year. Excepting 
Hargreaves Lansdown shares, the growth in 
Fund and Share AUA was 39%. 
As at 30 June 2013, the value of the Vantage 
ISA was £13.6 billion, (30 June 2012: £10.0 
billion), the Vantage SIPP was £10.4 billion 
(30 June 2012: £7.6 billion) and the Vantage 
Fund and Share Account was £10.2 billion 
(30 June 2012: £7.1 billion).
During the year the number of active 
Vantage clients increased by 75,000 to 
500,000, including a total of 8,000 new 
Corporate Vantage scheme members, 
taking the total Corporate Vantage 
members to 13,000 (2012: 5,000). We now 
administer 154,000 SIPP accounts, 386,000 
ISA accounts and 182,000 Fund and Share 
accounts on behalf of our clients.
28% more clients contributed to their SIPP 
than in the year to 30 June 2012, with the 
average new contribution into a Vantage 
SIPP this year reducing by 15% to £8,841. 
The average subscription in the Vantage 
Stocks and Share ISA increased by 11% to 
£8,397, with a 37% increase to the number 
of clients subscribing.  
Clients continued to transfer SIPP and 
ISA investments held elsewhere into our 
Vantage service. The value of transfers 
increased this year by a significant 52%. 
More clients sought to consolidate 
their investments and benefit from the 
advantages of having them all held in one 
place with a company they trust.
Clients have decreased their cash 
weightings during the period as investor 
sentiment began to improve and world 
markets rallied. The composition of assets 
across the whole of Vantage at 30 June 2013 
was 10% cash (30 June 2012: 12%), 34% 
stocks and shares (30 June 2012: 31%), and 
56% investment funds (30 June 2012: 57%).
 
A number of our clients make regular 
contributions into their ISA, SIPP or Fund 
and Share accounts.  The ‘Regular Savers’ 
service has been growing steadily since 
being introduced ten years ago, and as at 
30 June 2013 we had 66,000 clients (2012: 
53,000) saving a total of £24 million each 
month by way of direct debit instruction. 
Our Corporate Vantage service has the 
potential to significantly increase the value 
of regular monthly savings and Corporate 
Vantage clients currently subscribe an 
additional £6.6 million each month.
Vantage clients transacted 5.1 million fund 
deals (2012: 4.1 million) and 1.9 million 
share deals in the year (2012: 1.5 million). 
No charge is made to our clients for dealing 
in investment funds and therefore fund 
dealing does not impact revenues. The 
increased volume of share dealing resulted 
in an increase to stockbroking commission 
of £6.5m to a total of £26.9 million.  
Discretionary and Managed
The Discretionary division earns recurring 
income on underlying investments held 
in the Group’s Portfolio Management 
Service (PMS), and on investments in the 
Group’s multi-manager funds.  Revenue 
in the Discretionary division increased by 
25% from £27.3 million to £34.1 million. 
Increased renewal income and management 
fees resulting from the increase in AUA 
were the key drivers. 
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves 
Lansdown through its own range of multi-
manager funds and PMS increased by  37% 
to £3.3 billion as at 30 June 2013 (2012: 
£2.4 billion).  The growth in assets is due to 
net new business of £0.5 billion combined 
with a market increase of £0.4 billion.
 SIPP £10.4bn +37%
 (2012: £7.6bn)
 ISA £13.6bn +36%
 (2012: £10bn)
 F&S/Other £10.2bn +44%
 (2012: £7.1bn)
Total Vantage AUA £34.2bn 
(2012 £24.6bn)
27% growth in share deal 
volumes
90% of Vantage share 
deals are dealt online
2013
2013
1.9
90
2012
2012
1.5
87
2011
2011
1.3
83
2010
2010
1.1
79
2009
2009
0.8
77
Vantage share dealing volumes (m)
Share dealing volumes online (%) 19 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
our ability to improve both functionality 
and efficiency across our systems and react 
quickly to the needs of our business. This 
flexibility has been very useful this year in 
preparing for substantial regulatory change 
and delivering continued enhancement 
of our services. Throughout the year we 
introduced many service improvements.
We have continued to recruit high quality 
IT staff to support our investment in 
technology.  Constantly improving our 
technical architecture, including the 
security of client data, remains key to our 
success.
Staff
We continue to focus on motivating and 
retaining our best staff.      
The Board believes the use of share schemes 
best aligns staff interests with those of other 
shareholders. During April 2013 we granted 
new options under a SAYE scheme and now 
have 84% of eligible staff participating 
in one or more equity schemes. This year 
the majority of employees also received 
an annual bonus related to the overall 
performance of the Group and their own 
individual contribution.
We also retain and attract staff through the 
provision of training, career progression, 
good communication and a vibrant culture. 
The continued growth and success of 
the organisation continues to create 
opportunities for staff. 
Regulation, competition and markets
The Chief Executive has highlighted 
changes to the regulatory landscape, in 
particular the FCA’s Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR) and its latest Policy Statement 
PS 13/1.  Further information is provided 
under the section “Principal risks and 
uncertainties”. 
During the coming months we will be 
communicating our new RDR pricing 
structure to clients and stakeholders to 
comply with the new FCA rules. We will 
continue to put our clients at the heart 
of our strategic thinking to retain our 
position as the UK’s leading investment 
supermarket. 
The markets in which Hargreaves 
Lansdown operates are highly fragmented. 
Our advisory service generates initial and 
ongoing advice fees on assets introduced 
into PMS. The Group has significantly 
increased the number of financial advisers 
during the year from 68 as at 30 June 2012 
to 92 as at 30 June 2013. We aim to capture 
more of the advised market, particularly 
as many Independent Financial Advisers 
and high street banks have been exiting 
this market on the back of new regulatory 
rules such as the Retail Distribution Review. 
Increased adviser numbers has helped 
drive a 140% increase in net new business 
introduced into PMS during the year. Net 
new business amounted to £271 million 
(2012: £113m).  The proportion of PMS 
assets invested in Hargreaves Lansdown 
multi-manager funds as at 30 June 2013 was 
89% (2012: 90%).
Third Party and Other Services
Third party and other services revenues 
rose 21% during the year, from £25.7 
million to £31.1 million.
Although the Group continues to act as an 
intermediary for some third party pension 
schemes, the focus has shifted towards 
the Corporate Vantage service and hence 
we expect that third party business will 
see a gradual decline. Other services, 
however, are delivering growth. Revenue 
from our Funds Library service increased by 
£2.5 million, driven by a general increase 
in all revenue streams and in particular 
implementation billing fees and user 
licence fees where we have more clients 
now using this service. 
The total revenues from Hargreaves 
Lansdown Currency and Markets (CFDs, 
spread betting and currency services) 
were up £0.3m on last year as increased 
numbers of clients utilise these additional 
services, driving transactional volumes 
higher.  
IT and systems
Our core in-house bespoke systems are 
continually improved and developed. This 
year saw the cyclical replacement of core 
hardware and the continuation of a project 
to upgrade the technology and increase 
the capacity of our key administration 
system. Having very limited third party 
dependencies for the development of core 
administration systems is a key factor in 
Competitors include IFAs, execution-only 
brokers, banks, building societies, life 
assurers, fund supermarkets and certain 
wrap platforms.  
Given the success of our business, direct 
competition is predicted to increase; 
however, significant barriers to entry 
exist.  We have 32 years’ experience 
and have developed the IT systems and 
infrastructure in-house, both to facilitate 
efficient administration and more 
specifically to fulfil clients’ needs of which 
we have unparalleled knowledge. Our 
direct postal marketing reach is in excess 
of 1.7 million people, a contact list which 
would be difficult to compile today, and 
we have ensured that we have grasped the 
opportunities offered by digital marketing, 
creating a powerful distribution network. 
Given our brand reputation and scale, if 
increased competition leads to increased 
awareness and growth in our markets we 
see this as positive.
To date we have seen no impact from 
potential competition. Indeed, Hargreaves 
Lansdown’s market share has increased 
in all relevant markets that figures are 
available for. For example, for the year to 6 
April 2013, HMRC figures show that 8.4% 
of all stocks and shares ISA subscriptions 
were made via Hargreaves Lansdown. This 
compares to 6.89% for the year to 6 April 
2012. Hargreaves Lansdown's share of the 
Junior ISA market in 2013 was 32.13% (no 
comparatives are available as this is a new 
product). At 30 June 2013 our share of the 
execution only stockbroking market in the 
UK had risen to 19.39%, compared to 14.1% 
at the end of the previous year (source: 
Compeer).
In addition, transfers of client assets from 
competitor companies to Hargreaves 
Lansdown increased by 52%. Hargreaves 
Lansdown is a net recipient of assets from 
the vast majority of other companies in the 
market every year. Our own asset retention, 
however, remains extremely strong, at 
93.6% of all assets under administration. 
This is testament to our excellent service. 
Client satisfaction remained exceptional, 
with 96% of all clients rating our service 
as good, very good or excellent and the 
company winning a wide range of awards 
for client service, many of which are voted 
for by retail investors, our clients. 20 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
During the history of Hargreaves Lansdown 
there have been various market factors 
which, when initially revealed, have created 
conjecture about profitability. In every case, 
our response resulted in increased volumes 
of business which more than compensated 
for any reduction in margin they brought. 
In a similar vein we are currently in the 
process of finalising the detail of our 
response to the FCA’s new RDR rules 
and we believe Hargreaves Lansdown’s 
experience, business model and financial 
position will enable us to accommodate any 
necessary changes without harmful effect 
on long-term profitability.
In summary we must not be complacent, 
as there are many companies who would 
like to emulate the success of Hargreaves 
Lansdown. However, for now our service 
remains unparalleled and we must 
work hard to maintain our competitive 
advantage.
ISAs
The ISA market continues to grow. HMRC 
figures published in July 2013 show that 
new subscriptions into stocks and shares 
ISAs have grown by more than 30% to £16.4 
billion in the last three tax years, and over 
£190 billion is now held within stocks and 
shares ISAs. In the tax year ended 5 April 
2013 2.9 million adults contributed into 
a stocks and shares ISA with the average 
subscription being £5,696. Hargreaves 
Lansdown saw 178,000 adult clients 
contributing an average of £8,397. 
Each year our excellent customer service 
results in net transfers of client assets from 
other ISA providers. This year 35,572 clients 
transferred £878 million of investments 
to us. With continued low interest rates, 
stocks and share ISAs remain attractive. 
The launch of the Junior ISA in November 
2011 has widened the ISA market with the 
ability to currently save up to £3,720 for 
each child per annum.  We successfully 
lobbied the Treasury to permit transfers 
from Child Trust Funds (CTFs) to Junior 
ISAs and the Government has now agreed 
to consult on what we hope to be the first 
step in allowing CTFs to be transferred 
to superior Junior ISAs. Over six million 
children in the UK currently have CTFs with 
circa £4.8 billion pounds invested.
Pensions/SIPPs
The SIPP market is estimated to have assets 
under administration of £120 billion. As 
at 30 June 2013 our SIPP (Vantage + PMS) 
held £10.9 billion, representing 9.1% of this 
current market.
Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is 
currently being phased in and by 2017 all 
employers will have to auto-enrol eligible 
staff into a suitable workplace pension 
and pay contributions on their behalf. 
Escalating minimum contributions have 
been set. By 1 October 2018 the minimum 
contribution will be 9% of which the 
employer will have to pay a minimum of 
4%. The scheme has been introduced 
principally to get UK citizens to take greater 
responsibility for their financial well-being 
in retirement. For many years the number of 
people paying into occupational pensions 
has been in decline and this scheme 
should reverse this trend. Our Corporate 
Vantage service seeks to take advantage 
and existing schemes we administer will 
also benefit. The engagement of many for 
the first time should also be to the benefit 
of the industry as a whole and in particular 
to us as a trusted brand and respected 
company.
Demographics
In future people will be less able to rely on 
state assistance or defined benefit pension 
provision. As a result there is an increasing 
need for people to make their own pension 
provision. 
The gap between current saving and 
the amount needed to adequately fund 
retirement is being partially addressed 
through auto-enrolment.  Greater emphasis 
on pension savings should expand the 
pension market. The current market is 
estimated at around £2.5 trillion and 
defined contribution schemes such as our 
SIPP are set to grow rapidly over the next 
few years. We see this as a key growth 
market.
The UK has the largest savings gap in 
Europe. The importance of saving has 
never been greater and consequently 
the tax breaks on offer for children in the 
form of a SIPP or Junior ISA are becoming 
increasingly popular.  21 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Key performance indicators 
We use a range of indicators in order to assess performance.  We consider the following measures to be the key financial, operational and 
commercial indicators when looking at the overall performance of the Group.  We refer to these measures throughout the Directors’ Report 
and Business Review. 
Strategy/objectives Performance indicator 2013 2012 +/-
Growing the value of assets under  Growth in AUA 
(1)
 £36.4bn £26.3bn +38%
administration and management Vs. FTSE All-Share index 
(2)
 3289.71 2891.45 +14%
Excellent client service and client retention Client satisfaction survey 
(3)
 96% 95% +1pt
 Client retention rate 
(4)
 94.5% 94.4% +0.1pt
Improving earnings quality Percentage of recurring revenue 
(5)
 80% 81% -1pt
 Proportion of assets earning recurring revenue 
(6)
 83% 85% -2pts
Strong organic growth -  Number of active clients
 (7)
 507,000 432,000  +17% 
asset gathering and client recruitment Net new Vantage business inflows 
(8)
 £4.8bn £3.1bn +55%
 Total net new business inflows
 (8)
 £5.1bn £3.2bn +59%
 Asset retention rate 
(9)
 93.6% 93.8% -0.2pts
Maintaining tight cost control and  Operating profit margin 
(10)
 65.8% 63.1% +2.7pts 
operating efficiency Group cost ratio 
(11)
 24.5bps 28.2bps -3.7bps
Shareholder value and superior  Diluted earnings per share
 (12)
 31.4p 24.1p +30%
financial performance 
1. The value of all assets under administration in Vantage and PMS plus assets held by third parties in the HL Multi-Manager Funds.
2. The closing values as at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012, sourced from ProQuote
3. Based on May 2013 & May 2012 client surveys of 13,833 & 10,477 respondents, where service was voted as good, very good or excellent.
4. Based on the monthly lost clients as a percentage of the opening months total client clients and averaging for the year.
5. Total value of renewal commission, management fees and interest earned on client money, as a percentage of total revenue.
6. Percentage of assets either held in an account which generates a fixed management fee or held in an account which generates management fees, renewal commission or 
interest proportionate to the value of assets held.
7. Unique number of clients holding at least one PMS or Vantage account with a value over £100 at the year-end.
8. Net new business inflows represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less withdrawals and assets transferred out.
9. Based on the monthly lost AUA as a percentage of the opening months AUA and averaging for the year.
10. Operating profit (profit before investment gains) divided by revenue.
11. Operating costs (excluding loyalty bonus) divided by the average monthly level of total AUA. (100bps = 1%)
12. Based upon earnings and the weighted average fully diluted share capital.
A key indicator of success for the Group is 
the extent to which we have increased total 
assets under administration (AUA) during 
the period.  This involves encouraging 
existing clients to entrust us with more of 
their savings through the provision of quality 
service, information and pricing, whilst 
also attracting new clients through our 
various marketing initiatives.  In 2013 the 
38% growth in value of total assets under 
administration (2012: 7%) was attributable 
to strong new business volumes, a beneficial 
market increase, and maintaining very high 
client and asset retention rates and client 
satisfaction scores. 
Analysis of our AUA suggests that the FTSE 
All-Share index is a reasonable benchmark 
to use for the market and so any change 
in this index can form a useful comparison 
against the growth in AUA.  The FTSE All-
Share index increased by 13.8% during the 
year ended 30 June 2013 and on average 
the FTSE All-Share index has been 10.4% 
higher than during the 2012 financial year. 
The positive effect of the market and the 
impact this had on investor confidence 
has in part helped to drive new business 
volumes. 
The importance of AUA is that they produce 
a recurring revenue stream consisting of 
renewal commission, management fees 
and interest.  The percentage of recurring 
revenue attributable to these ‘quality 
earnings’ fell slightly from 81% in 2012 
to 80% in 2013. The value of recurring 
revenues increased by 21% from £192.6 
million to £233.0 million.  Not all of our 
AUA generates recurring revenue, so when 
looking at the growth in total AUA, it is 
relevant to consider another indicator: the 
proportion of assets earning recurring 
revenue. This has decreased slightly from 
85% in 2012 to 83% in 2013. 
The number of active clients acts as an 
indicator of how successful the Group 
has been at adding to its client bank. In 
2013, the number has increased by 17% 
(2012: 12%) and as at 30 June 2013 stood at 
507,000.
The operating profit margin increased from 
63.1% to 65.8%.  Efficient and scalable 
operations and robust control of costs 
help to increase the operating profit, and 
we saw a further improvement to the cost 
ratio during FY 2013.  We consider the 
diluted earnings per share figure to be 
the most appropriate measure of financial 
performance.  This increased by 30% in the 
year to 31.4 pence. 22 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Financial Review
Despite continued tough economic conditions, it has been another record year for the Group in terms of revenue and profits.  A significant 
bounce back in world stock markets during the year to 30 June 2013 combined with record levels of organic growth from new business and 
new clients meant that we ended the year with a record £36.4bn of AUA.
The Business review on pages 16 to 20 contains information about the performance of the 
Group, in particular further information about Assets Under Administration (AUA), new 
business inflows and the performance of the three divisions – Vantage, Discretionary & 
Managed, and Third Party & Other services.
Financial performance
The Group achieved revenue of £292.4m, a 
22% increase compared to FY 2012, driven 
primarily by increased levels of AUA. 
Continued robust control of costs and 
scalable operations have contributed to 
the improved operating profit margin which 
increased to 65.8% (FY 2012: 63.1%). 
The effective tax rate for the Group this 
year was 23.7% (FY 2012: 25.9%).  The 28% 
increase in operating profit, together with 
a lower rate of corporation tax, combined 
to increase the diluted earnings per share 
from 24.1 pence to 31.4 pence per share.
 Year ended  Year ended
 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 Movement
 (£million) (£million) (%)
Revenue 292.4 238.7 +22%
Administrative expenses (100.4) (83.3) +21%
Total FSCS levy 0.5 (4.8) 
Operating profit 192.5 150.6 +28%
Non-operating income 2.7 2.2 +23%
Profit before taxation 195.2 152.8 +28%
Taxation (46.2) (39.5) +17%
Profit after taxation 149.0 113.3 +32%
Basic earnings per share (pence)                                         31.7 24.2 +31%
Diluted earnings per share (pence)                                       31.4 24.1 +30%
Total revenue
Revenue growth has been strong in all 
three divisions. The improvement in 
investment markets during the year has 
had a beneficial effect on AUA and on 
revenue.  A significant contribution to the 
22% growth in revenue has also come from 
organic growth in AUA and from new clients 
investing with us.
Most of the revenue growth occurred in the 
Vantage division, where AUA increased by 
£9.6 billion.  The overall revenue margin 
earned on Vantage AUA decreased from 
81bps to 75.5bps, primarily as a result of 
lower interest rates earned on deposits.  
As highlighted in the Interim Results 
and noted above in the Chief Executive’s 
statement, deposit rates started to reduce 
early in the financial year and are now 
significantly lower than last year.  For 
example, the 12-month LIBOR rate was 
0.92% at the end of June 2013 compared 
to 1.80% a year earlier.  As a result, the 
revenue margin on cash balances (c10% 
of AUA) reduced in the second half of the 
financial year. If rates remain at this level, 
as is likely, a more significant reduction will 
affect the 2014 financial year.
 Year ended  Year ended
 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 Movement
 (£million) (£million) (%)
Vantage 227.2 185.7 +22%
Discretionary 34.1 27.3 +25%
Third Party and Other services 31.1 25.7 +21%
Total revenue 292.4 238.7 +22%
 
Total administration expenses 
Total administrative expenses are made 
up of operating expenses which are under 
our control plus the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) costs that 
are outside our control.
 Year ended  Year ended
 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 Movement
 (£million) (£million) (%)
Staff costs 50.3 43.5 +16%
Commission payable 23.2 16.4 +41%
Marketing and distribution costs 11.0 9.4 +17%
Office running costs 3.8 4.5 -16%
Depreciation, amortisation & financial costs 2.0 2.6 -23%
Other costs 10.1 6.9 +46%
Operating expenses 100.4 83.3 +21%
Total FSCS levy (0.5) 4.8 
Total administrative expenses 99.9 88.1 +13% 23 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Staff costs remain our largest expense. The 
number of staff on a full-time equivalent 
basis (including directors) at 30 June 2013 
was 741, and the average number of staff 
during the year was 728, an increase of 
11% against an average of 657 for the 
comparative year. 
The increase in staff numbers resulted from 
increased investment in IT and web services, 
along with recruitment of staff focused 
on the strategic areas of Pensions, Funds 
Library and Corporate Vantage, primarily in 
the first half of the year. 
We also increased the number of seasonal 
staff that we needed to handle the 
unprecedented levels of new in-specie 
transfer business being transferred into 
Vantage, in the third and early part of the 
fourth quarter of the year. Recent industry 
initiatives such as electronic registration will 
be beneficial, enabling us to more efficiently 
handle transfers. 
Commission payable is the portion of 
renewal income which the Group receives on 
investment funds held in Vantage which is 
rebated to clients as a ‘loyalty bonus’. This 
rebate to clients was paid throughout the 
year except on investment funds held in a 
SIPP where it was introduced on 1 January 
2013. The 41% increase in cost is in line with 
the rise in value of the related client assets 
after allowing for the introduction of the 
loyalty bonus in the SIPP at a cost of £3.7 
million for the 6 months. 
Group marketing and distribution spend 
increased by 17%, from £9.4 million to 
£11.0 million and includes the costs of 
printing and sending information and 
newsletters to existing and potential clients, 
media advertising, online marketing and 
client incentives. Improved stock markets 
warranted additional marketing spend. 
A key strategic focus for the business is 
our use of mobile and digital media. We 
increasingly invest in paid search traffic, 
cost per click relationships, HLTV and 
smart phone and tablet apps. These have 
amounted to £1.0 million of additional cost 
this year but have served to reinforce our 
strength in digital media which helps drive 
client and asset recruitment. 
Other costs include dealing costs, 
irrecoverable VAT, insurance, computer 
maintenance and external administration 
charges. After excluding a one-off VAT refund 
of £2.2m from last year other costs were up 
by £1.0 million or 11%.
FSCS levy
Costs relating to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (“FSCS”) are beyond 
our control. 
The FSCS is the compensation fund of last 
resort for customers of authorised financial 
services firms.  All authorised firms are 
required to contribute to the running of 
the scheme and the cost of compensation 
payments.  Contributions to the scheme 
are proportional to the amount of eligible 
income of a firm, rather than its risk profile 
or track record of running a compliant 
service.   As such, as a large business we 
usually make a significant contribution to 
the cost of compensation on investments we 
have never recommended or been involved 
with.  FSCS costs decreased from £4.8 
million to a £0.5 million refund this year. 
This followed a successful challenge to the 
basis of calculation of the levy, resulting in 
a refund of part of the FSCS levy relating to 
earlier years.  
Taxation
The charge for taxation increased in line 
with higher profits to £46.2 million from 
£39.5 million. The effective tax rate fell from 
25.9% in 2012 to 23.7% in the current period 
due to the standard UK corporation tax rate 
falling from 26% to 23% since the start of 
the prior period, the 2013 applicable rate 
being 23.75% (2012 25.5%). In total, taxation 
of £4.0 million has also been credited 
directly to equity and relates to share-based 
payments.  
The Group’s policy on corporate taxes is to 
pay the right amount of tax at the right time.  
We aim to be transparent in our activities; 
we prefer not to engage in aggressive, 
artificial or sophisticated tax planning 
activities, and we actively engage with the 
UK tax authorities both on corporate taxes 
and tax issues affecting our clients.
Earnings per share (EPS)
The diluted EPS increased by 30% from 
24.1 pence to 31.4 pence. EPS is calculated 
as the earnings for the year divided by 
the total weighted average fully diluted 
number of shares, including those held 
by the Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”).  
Further information on the funding of the 
EBT and potential dilution of share capital is 
provided within the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report.  
Pension schemes
There were no changes to the defined 
contribution pension scheme in the year, 
with staff and directors participating on 
equal terms. Pension costs are recognised 
as an expense when the contribution is 
payable. 
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure, primarily on IT 
hardware and software, totalled £6.2 
million this year, compared with £1.1 
million last year. The increase relates to the 
cyclical replacement of hardware and the 
continuation of the project to enhance the 
capacity of our key administration systems.  
All of our core systems are developed 
and maintained in-house and as such we 
have significant IT resource dedicated to 
IT support and development. For the year 
ended 30 June 2013, an average of 42 staff 
were employed in IT development with most 
of their related costs expensed within staff 
costs.  Any costs relating to the development 
of new systems have been capitalised and 
will be depreciated over the useful economic 
life of the new system once implemented. In 
the year we capitalised £0.25 million of staff 
costs. 
Balance sheet and cash flow
The Group is soundly financed with a strong 
balance sheet and no borrowings. This is 
an important strength which in addition 
to being attractive to clients provides both 
resilience and flexibility. The Group is highly 
cash generative and the cash conversion 
ratio measured by the operating cash 
flows as a percentage of operating profits 
remained high at 103% in 2013 compared to 
104% in 2012.
Group cash balances excluding restricted 
cash totalled £177.7 million at the end of the 
year.  The only significant cash outflow from 
profits has been the second interim ordinary 
and special dividends totalling £81.7 million 
paid in September 2012 and an interim 
dividend of £29.5 million paid in April 2013. 
The Group has four subsidiary companies  24 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).  These firms 
maintain capital resources at a level which 
satisfies both their regulatory capital 
requirements and their working capital 
requirements.  Industry regulatory capital 
requirements have increased in recent 
years and we expect this to continue as 
a result of FCA requirements.  The Group 
continues to hold a level of capital that 
provides significant headroom over the 
regulatory minimum.  As at 30 June 2013, 
the aggregated Pillar 1 regulatory capital 
requirement across the four regulated 
subsidiary companies was approximately 
£9.5 million compared to capital resources 
of approximately £71.7 million. Capital 
resources equate to approximately three 
times the Pillar 2 capital requirement, which 
the Board assessed as adequate during our 
Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).  Further disclosures are 
published in the Pillar 3 document on the 
Group's website at www.hl.co.uk .
Increase in counterparty balances
In accordance with market practice, certain 
balances with clients, Stock Exchange 
member firms and other counterparties 
are included in the balance sheet.  These 
balances fluctuate according to the volume 
and value of recent trading.  At the year-
end, trade receivables and trade payables 
included counterparty balances of £211.4 
million (2012: £93.4 million) and £230.0 
million (2012: £105.6 million) respectively.
This total ordinary dividend pay-out equates to 65% (2012: 65%) of post-tax profits, with 
a further 28% (2012: 28%) of post-tax profits paid by way of special dividend. Any special 
dividend in future years will depend upon future cash requirements and therefore may vary.  
An arrangement exists under which the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has agreed to waive all 
dividends.
Tracey Taylor
Chief Financial Officer
10 September 2013
 
The Board remains committed to a 
progressive dividend policy.
The Board has declared a second interim 
(final) ordinary dividend of 14.38 pence 
and a special dividend of 8.91 pence 
per ordinary share.  These dividends 
will be paid on 27 September 2013 to all 
shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 13 September 2013.  This 
brings the total dividends in respect of the 
year to 29.59 pence per ordinary share 
(2012: 22.59p), an increase of 31%. 
Dividend per share 2013 2012 Change
First interim dividend paid 6.3p 5.1p +24%
Second interim dividend declared 14.38p 10.65p +35%
Total ordinary dividend 20.68p 15.75p +31%
Special dividend declared  8.91p 6.84p +30%
Total dividend for the year 29.59p 22.59p +31%
Dividend per share (pence)
2009
10.10
11.88
2010
18.87
2011
22.59
2012
29.59
2013
29.59p
Dividends 25 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Principal risks and uncertanties
Like all businesses, the Group faces a 
number of potential risks which, if not 
properly controlled, could hinder the 
successful implementation of its strategy 
and have a material impact on the long-
term performance. 
The Board believes that a successful risk 
management framework balances risk 
and reward.  The Board has responsibility 
for risk management and internal control, 
further details of which can be found in the 
Corporate Governance statement. 
The risk profile of the business has not 
changed significantly this year. Each year 
we highlight the risk of earnings being 
impacted by market volatility or a fall 
in interest rates. Although the markets 
remained volatile in 2013, over the year 
the FTSE All-Share index rose by 14%. This 
helped the business to grow the value of 
clients’ investments which in turn helped 
increase Group revenue. Interest rates have 
significantly reduced during the year, partly 
as a result of the UK Government’s “Funding 
for Lending” scheme. 12 month LIBOR was 
0.92% at the end of June 2013 compared 
to 1.80% a year earlier, and this is set to 
significantly reduce interest income during 
the 2014 financial year. Market volatility 
arising from such factors as the Euro crisis 
remains an accepted risk, although the 
high percentage of assets in tax wrappers 
mitigates the impact of market turbulence 
on client asset retention.  
In terms of regulatory risk, on 26 April 
2013 the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) issued Policy Statement PS13/1 
setting out the final rules that will apply 
to platforms and other nominee services 
with effect from 6 April 2014. We had 
been anticipating the new rules for some 
time and had engaged at length with the 
previous regulator during the consultation 
process.  The rules and implementation 
timescale are broadly as we had expected, 
and the majority of work required to comply 
is already either in progress or complete 
so we expect to be ready in good time.  The 
FCA platform rules will necessitate a move 
away from commission income to explicit 
platform fees that clients will pay directly 
to us for our services in future. There are 
transitional rules that will apply, enabling 
us to continue to earn commission income 
on existing assets for a period of two years. 
We expect to offer all Hargreaves Lansdown 
clients the ability to buy commission 
free units in due course.  As we have 
done successfully for many years, we will 
continue to seek to use our negotiating 
power to reduce the cost of investing for 
our clients.  
There continues to be concern over the 
uncertainty in the Eurozone regarding 
the indebtedness of certain countries, 
particularly Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy 
and Ireland, and the health of their banking 
sectors. As at 30 June 2013 the Group has 
no direct counterparty exposure to these 
countries. The Group is not exposed to 
significant foreign exchange translation or 
transaction risk.
The risk factors mentioned below do not 
purport to be exhaustive as there may be 
additional risks that the Group has not yet 
identified or has deemed to be immaterial 
that could have a material adverse effect on 
the business.
Risk Management Framework
Executive Committee and Audit Committee
Risk Committee
Group Risk Register Process
Operational Managers
Committee
Mitigate Access
Monitor Identify 26 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Operational Risks 
• High level of resilience built into daily operations.
• IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top priorities by the Board. 
• Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals, established name suppliers and 
dedicated Information Security Team.  
• IT change management controls including where, appropriate, oversight by project 
board and steering committees.
Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in respect of 
the Group’s information, data, software or information 
technology systems
Serious or prolonged security breaches, cyber-attacks, errors 
or breakdowns in the Group’s software or IT systems must 
be avoided, and IT changes must be carefully controlled to 
avoid introducing system integrity problems or other business 
continuity issues.
Risk 
Industry Risks 
Mitigating Factors/Controls
• Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile transaction-based 
alternative.
• High proportion of assets under administration in tax wrappers so clients less likely to 
withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
• Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
  
• Strong market position with pricing power. 
• Full control over flexible platform.
• Experienced management team with a strong track record of innovation and 
responsiveness to the market.
• Client focused with a high level of client satisfaction.
• Track record of successful development.
• High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of technology at Board level.
• Substantial development and scalability project teams in place.
• IT change management controls including, where appropriate, oversight by project 
board and steering committees.
• Strong compliance culture and culture geared towards FCA principle of treating clients 
fairly.
• Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should the capital resource 
requirement be increased.
• Alternative recurring revenue models are already successfully operated by the Group 
and these could be used to mitigate or offset the potential reduction in commission 
income. 
• Competitive prices and service offering will be maintained to ensure business will not 
be lost to competitors many of whom will in any case be faced with the same rule 
change. 
• The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings in order to plan for an 
ageing population, which is currently under-provided for. This creates opportunity for 
SIPP and ISA business. 
• HMRC has recently confirmed that commission rebates paid to clients remain tax-free 
in both the ISA and SIPP wrappers.
• Recent Government announcements to allow AIM shares to be held in ISAs and 
consultation on permitting transfers of Child Trust Funds to Junior ISAs show positive 
Government support for ISAs.
• Clients educated to improve awareness of potential ‘boiler room’ and other online 
scams, and security procedures are communicated to clients.
• Ongoing monitoring and response to emerging threats.
• Dedicated Information Security Team monitors HL’s controls. 
Fluctuations in the capital markets
Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading 
activity and/or the value of the Group’s assets under 
administration or management, from which we derive 
revenues.  
Changing markets and increased competition
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment with 
developing demographic trends and our continued profitability 
depends on our ability to respond to these pressures and 
trends.
 
Evolving technology
The Group’s technology needs to remain current if we are to 
develop our systems to accommodate changing preferences, 
increased volumes, new products and the emergence of new 
industry standards. Risks arising from technology change 
projects need to be minimised.
Regulatory
The Group may be materially adversely affected as a result of 
new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the 
interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations 
emanating from the UK or Europe.
The Group needs to replace its significant platform commission 
revenue stream following the implementation of the new FCA 
Platform Rules. 
Changes in taxation law
Changes made to tax legislation could reduce the 
attractiveness of some of the Group’s investment products 
such as ISAs and SIPPs.
Damage to the Group’s reputation
The risk of reputational damage through our own actions or 
the actions of unassociated third parties (such as copycat 
websites to fraudulently target client funds) needs to be 
minimised.     27 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Risk 
Operational Risks continued 
Mitigating Factors/Controls
• Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across primary and two 
secondary sites, and two alternative sites available for staff relocation 
should the main headquarters be out of action.
• Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice methodologies 
and tested regularly.
• High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
• Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams. 
• Strong compliance culture.
• Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management and 
staff objectives.
• Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
• A continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes are in operation 
to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
• High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover. 
• Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing literature.
• Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key suppliers.
• Ongoing review of key business partners.
• Very experienced management team, with a highly successful track record to date.
• Management has demonstrated an excellent understanding of the market and 
continues to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
• HL only manages Fund of Funds to focus on core strength.
• Fund analysis focuses on ‘stock selection’ skills of manager rather than basic 
performance analysis.
• HL Multi-manager Funds are well diversified at the underlying fund level as 
well as by number of funds, so are less vulnerable to sector specific poor 
performance than more focused funds.
• Well established and proven investment process overseen by an Internal 
Investment Committee. 
Business continuity
The risk of disruption to the business as a result of IT or power 
failure, fire, flood, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks, relocation 
problems and similar must be minimised.
Employee actions damaging reputation
The risk of reputational damage e.g. from employee 
misconduct, failure to manage inside information, conflicts of 
interest, or fraud must be controlled.
Key personnel 
Key personnel must be recruited and retained to prevent 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s operations and 
implementation of its strategy.
Litigation or claims made against the Group 
The Group needs to protect against the risk of litigation and 
actions taken by regulatory agencies. 
Reliance on third parties  
Outsourced service providers must meet appropriate 
standards to protect the Group from the risk of regulatory 
sanctions and reputational damage.
Strategic risk  
Management must remain focused on appropriate strategies 
and implement the Group’s strategy effectively.
Performance of in-house managed funds  
Investment performance of the Hargreaves Lansdown multi-
manager funds needs to remain good relative to the market or 
in absolute terms, or the Group may be vulnerable to outflows 
in those funds and a consequential reduction in revenues.
Financial Risks
• Highly cash generative business with low working capital requirement, and 
the Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and working 
capital requirements.
• Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at 
short notice.
• Only use UK banks where we do not believe the Government would allow 
them to fail.
• Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
• Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
• Close interaction with the banks we use via our Treasury Policy and Treasury Team.
• Access to competitive rates due to large value of deposits placed and ability 
to control the interest on client balances.
• Close interaction with the FCA on all regulatory changes.
Liquidity
The Group must remain able to meet liabilities as they become 
due and be able to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding 
as necessary.
Bank default
Given the current economic climate and in particular the 
unprecedented problems faced by banks, the Group must 
protect against the risk that a bank could fail.
Interest rates
Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest rates or 
regulatory changes affecting interest income. 28 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Corporate social responsibility
At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a 
positive one. Our company values are rooted in providing great service at a great 
price, and we believe that doing the right thing makes great business sense. 
We are committed to managing 
the environmental impact of 
our operations, treating our 
employees well and maintaining 
a great culture and working 
environment.  Our approach to 
corporate social responsibility 
includes these key elements:
Quality  
We want to offer the best products 
and offer an excellent service, and 
are always looking for ways to 
improve.
Sustainability  
We work for the long-term, looking 
beyond immediate success. 
Integrity 
We deal with people openly and 
honestly, building strong   
relationships.
Environment
As a service business that does not own its 
business premises and is fundamentally 
based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves 
Lansdown has a limited direct impact on 
the environment.  Nevertheless the Group 
continues to promote energy efficiency 
and the avoidance of waste throughout its 
operations.
We recently commissioned a report to 
investigate our output of greenhouse gas 
emissions and reductive measures we 
could undertake (for more information visit 
www.hl.co.uk/csr). As part of this report 
Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to 
FTSE 100 companies in the same sector. 
The results demonstrate the relatively 
low impact our business has on the 
environment.
This low impact on the environment has 
not stopped us from enacting initiatives 
to continue reducing our environmental 
impact.
Efficiency and minimising environmental 
impact
In many respects, our objective of reducing 
waste and minimising the environmental 
impact of our business is aligned with 
our objectives of protecting client data, 
reducing costs, and improving efficiency. 
It is our aim to deal with clients and 
other businesses electronically wherever 
possible not only to speed up information 
transfer but also to reduce the amount of 
paper we use:
Tonnes CO2e per employee per annum
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Lowest
HL
FTSE 100 
sector average
Highest
• We have invested heavily in providing a 
user-friendly, comprehensive website 
and automated links to banks and fund 
providers
• Clients are able to opt out of receiving 
paper valuations and contract notes, 
viewing them via our website instead
Our modern office has ‘chilled 
beam’ air conditioning, which 
is up to 60% more energy 
efficient. The building also uses 
technology to manage lighting 
minimising wastage 29 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Environmental initiatives - improvements
We aim to further reduce the amount of paper-based processes whilst providing better service.  The benefits will grow as more people and 
businesses choose to transact business and receive information online. We aim to increase the take-up of online and paperless services, 
and have been successful in doing this during the year:
 30 June 30 June  
 2013 2012
Vantage clients were registered as paperless 47% 41% 
Vantage equity deals placed online 90% 87% 
Clients registered to use our online services 81% 78%
Business travel and commuting
We do not provide company cars as standard 
to managers or to our network of advisers. 
These advisers are spread throughout the 
UK which minimises travel time and carbon 
emissions. We provide a telephone advice 
service to handle those cases where a face-
to-face meeting is unnecessary.
We also provide a secure bike park at our 
office enabling up to 150 staff to cycle to 
work. We were also mindful of selecting our 
office location close to residential areas 
where many of our staff live, allowing them 
to walk to work. 
Recycling
We continue to shred and recycle 
confidential waste and have arrangements 
for the collection of recyclable waste such as 
printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, 
newspapers and out-of-date literature.  
We also continue to recycle redundant IT 
equipment through specialist third parties. 
Electricity usage
Our electricity usage is not high enough to 
mean that we have to participate in the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy Efficiency 
Scheme. This scheme was compulsory for UK 
organisations that consumed over 6,000 MWh 
of half-hourly metered electricity for the period 
January 2008 to December 2008. During that 
period we consumed well below that level 
and for the year ended 30 June 2013 we had 
consumed only 2,731 MWh (2012: 2,802 MWh). 
Although we do not set a formal target for 
the reduction in electricity consumption, 
the ethos of the company is such that we 
always try to keep energy consumption to a 
minimum. 
Methodology 
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources 
fall within our consolidated financial statement. We do not have responsibility 
for any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement. We 
have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition) and emission factors from UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting 2013. 
For more information visit www.hl.co.uk/csr
Greenhouse gas emissions
During the year we engaged a consultant to assess our carbon emissions and 
benchmark us against other firms in our sector. The report showed that we have 
achieved reductions in emissions in both absolute terms and on a per employee 
basis. The report was positive and reinforced our belief we are already making good 
progress towards being resource efficient. In the financial year ending 2013 our use 
of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per employee fell by 23% and our electricity 
use per employee fell by 15% compared to the previous year.
Tonnes of CO2e
Emissions from Current reporting 
year 2012-2013
Comparison year
2011-2012
Change (%)
Combustion of fuel and operation 
of facilities
220.9 253.6 -12.9
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use
1216.4 1289.1 -5.6
Tonnes of CO2e per average full-
time equivalent employee
1.97 2.36 -16.5
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2013 30 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
FTSE4Good
Hargreaves Lansdown has 
continued to be included in the 
FTSE4Good Index series, having 
been independently assessed 
according to the FTSE4Good criteria. 
The FTSE4Good index measures 
the performance of companies that 
meet globally recognised standards 
on corporate social responsibility 
(CSR). It is a tool for socially-
responsible investors that helps them 
to benchmark companies on their 
CSR performance and contributes 
to the development of responsible 
business practice around the world. 
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria 
are enhanced regularly and demand 
continued improvement in CSR 
practices in order 
for companies to 
gain or maintain 
inclusion in the 
index.
"It was a privilege to be asked to be involved with Gromit 
Unleashed and the Grand Appeal. Bristol Children's Hospital 
is one of the city's proudest achievements and we are 
delighted to support, and help raise awareness of, this 
extremely worthwhile charity."
Peter Hargreaves
Hargreaves Lansdown is a founding sponsor of the 
Gromit Unleashed Grand Appeal.
Community
With the exceptions described below, 
we have made it company policy to focus 
our support on one charity or non-profit 
organisation each year which is selected 
from suggestions received from employees 
within the Group. During the year the 
chosen charity was “Cots for Tots”. This is 
being run by the Wallace & Gromit appeal 
and is aiming to raise £1 million for the 
special care baby unit. All of our fund 
raising initiatives are now focused on this 
charity. 
Charitable activity outside of our chosen 
charity for the year
• The Group supports a grass-roots sports 
club. A monthly donation is made to 
the Bristol & West Athletics Club which 
is the leading all-round athletics club 
in the Southwest of England, providing 
coaching and competition for the widest 
range of events, for all age groups and all 
abilities throughout the year
• We are again supporting two teams of 
staff from Hargreaves Lansdown who 
are competing in the Invesco Perpetual 
Highland Adventure Race in September 
of this year. This is a challenging event, 
facilitating team bonding whilst raising 
money for the Mitchemp Trust, which 
aims to provide outdoor adventure 
programmes for youths in order to help 
give them hope, confidence and life skills 
to meet the challenges in their lives
• We support the Bristol Children’s 
hospital Grand Appeal (see above)
• Total donations to charity for the year 
ended 30 June 2013 were £62,000 (2012: 
£62,000). We do not make political 
donations
The Group also makes significant tax 
payments which help society as a whole. 
Corporation tax and employers national 
insurance paid in respect of the year ended 
30 June 2013 was £45.0 million (£2012: 
£39.8 million). In addition other taxes such 
as VAT, stamp duty and business rates paid.
  31 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Ombudsman Service for the industry. 
The results for the 2013 financial year 
compared to the last figures published by 
the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves 
Lansdown is achieving good results in 
treating our clients fairly.
Integrity
The Company prides itself on its integrity 
in dealing with clients and staff openly 
and honestly. This is achieved through our 
policy of putting clients first. Internally, 
all staff are trained and made fully aware 
of anti-money laundering procedures 
which must be adhered to at all times. The 
Company takes the views of its employees 
very seriously and as such operates a 
“Whistleblowing Policy” with any concerns 
raised about malpractice or wrongdoing 
within the workplace being treated with the 
utmost confidence and in full compliance 
with the Public Interest Disclosure Act.
Efficiency and cost saving
We believe that costs require constant 
consideration and have built an ethos of 
employees continually asking themselves 
whether their actions are cost effective and 
efficient. As a result employees only print 
documents when necessary, will avoid 
traveling when not required and generally 
minimise waste. As a result, our culture 
combines well with specific environmental 
initiatives to minimise resource usage 
and encourages continual improvement in 
resource efficiency.
Employment
Employment and diversity
Hargreaves Lansdown proudly fosters a 
working environment that wholly supports 
the principals of diversity and equality and 
is committed to ensuring that everyone is 
treated with dignity and respect. We are an 
equal opportunities employer and it is our 
policy to ensure that all job applicants and 
employees are treated fairly and on merit 
regardless of any discriminatory factor 
to ensure the Group attracts, retains and 
promotes the best available talent.  As at 
30 June 2013, the Group employed a total 
of 756 people, of which 527 are male (70%) 
and 229 are female (30%).  
We offer tangible support to our people. A 
full assessment of any disabled employee’s 
needs is undertaken and reasonable 
adjustments are made to the work 
environment or practices in order to assist 
them.
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to 
providing a safe and healthy environment 
in which its employees can work.   We 
use Health and Safety consultants on an 
ongoing basis to ensure that standards 
are maintained, and the Health and Safety 
policy is made available to all staff via our 
intranet.
Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages 
employee involvement and consultation 
and places emphasis on keeping its 
employees informed of the Company’s 
activities and financial performance by 
such means as the employee intranet 
and publication to all staff of relevant 
information and corporate announcements.   
We have recently carried out a successful 
consultation regarding the implementation 
of auto-enrolment and the introduction 
of a compulsory employee pension 
contribution to sit alongside the existing 
employer contributions which Hargreaves 
Lansdown continues to make on behalf of 
its employees.
Professional development
Professional development is actively 
encouraged and many of our staff embark 
on professional qualifications to further 
their knowledge and careers within the 
Company. During the year-ended 30 June 
2013 152 staff sat a professional exam and 
47 completed a professional qualification.
We offer a number of university students 
the opportunity to work in positions 
throughout the business during their 
professional placement year. This is a year 
offered on a number of university courses 
and provides real world experience in the 
work place giving their studies context and 
improving their employability at the end of 
their studies. A number of these students 
have subsequently returned to Hargreaves 
Lansdown in a full time capacity.
Campaigning 
The Company also actively seeks to 
lobby via public consultation documents 
where they believe that investors in the 
UK will benefit. Our latest success has 
been the Government’s agreement to 
consult on what we hope to be the first 
step in allowing Child Trust Funds to be 
transferred to far superior Junior ISAs. For 
more information on our lobbying see our 
website on www.hl.co.uk/csr. 
Culture
We have worked hard to create what we 
believe to be a unique working culture at 
Hargreaves Lansdown.
Putting clients first
At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an 
embedded culture whereby the interests 
of clients are always put first and this 
is communicated to all employees in 
the business during their induction and 
throughout their careers. In practice this 
includes elements such as ensuring that:
• all product design and information is 
clear and clients fully understand the 
features, benefits, risks and costs of the 
financial products they buy 
• information and client support is 
available to clients after the point of sale
• appropriate complaints handling 
procedures are in place
• financial promotion and marketing 
practices are unbiased and appropriate 
for their audience 
As part of this culture we actively monitor 
all areas of the business via monthly and 
quarterly reporting both in terms of treating 
clients fairly and ensuring excellent levels 
of client service. Another way to ensure 
we are getting things right with clients 
is to listen to them and the changes they 
would like to see to our services and we 
encourage and actively seek feedback from 
clients.
If clients ever feel the need to complain, 
our complaints handling team carefully 
investigates our client’s complaint and 
endeavours to provide them with a fair 
resolution. We benchmark our performance 
in treating clients fairly against statistics 
published annually by the Financial  32 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Board of Directors
1. Michael Evans, FIA
Chairman, 52
Appointed Chairman in December 2009 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 
member of the Remuneration Committee
Michael became a non-executive director of 
the Company in September 2006. Michael 
is a qualified actuary with 31 years' industry 
experience. He is also a non-executive 
director of esure Group PLC, CBRE Global 
Investors Group (UK) Limited and Chesnara 
PLC. He is a member of the advisory board 
of Spectrum Corporate Finance and chairs 
the board of Trustees of Wessex Heartbeat. 
Michael was formerly Chief Operating 
Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
2. Ian Gorham, ACA
Chief Executive Officer, 41
Appointed CEO in September 2010
Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 
as Chief Operating Officer. Previously he 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant, and 
worked for Deloitte where he helped build 
their UK financial services operations and 
was Head of Grant Thornton's UK financial 
services business. Ian has worked with 
many financial services companies on a 
wide range of strategic and operational 
matters. Ian holds no external Director 
appointments.
3. Tracey Taylor, FCCA, MSc
Chief Financial Officer, 41
Appointed Chief Financial Officer in 
November 2008
Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 
1999.  Her previous responsibilities within 
the Group have included the operational 
areas of IT systems and client accounting, 
group finance, treasury and the company 
secretarial function. In 2006 Tracey was 
appointed to the role of Group Accounting 
Director and to the Executive Committee 
before being appointed to the main Board 
in 2008. Prior to joining Hargreaves 
Lansdown she qualified as an accountant 
before working for LloydsTSB.  Tracey holds 
no external Director appointments.
4. Peter Hargreaves, FCA
Executive Director, 66
Appointed to his current role in  September 
2010 (formerly CEO)
Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown 
in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the 
Group until September 2010. Previously, 
he qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
and worked for KPMG, Unisys Group 
and Whitbread Plc.  Peter is also a non-
executive director of ITM Power PLC
1
2
3
4 33 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
6. Dharmash Mistry, BA (Oxon), MEng
Non-Executive Director, 43
Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
October 2011. Member of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee
Dharmash is a former partner at Balderton 
Capital LLC, one of Europe’s leading 
venture capital firms and a non-executive 
director at Dixons Retail plc. Prior to 
this he served on the board of Lovefilm 
(AMZN) and was Group Managing Director 
of Emap Consumer Media. He started his 
career as a Brand Manager at Procter and 
Gamble, followed by a period at The Boston 
Consulting group
7. Stephen Robertson, BSc, FRSA
Non-Executive Director, 58
Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
October 2011. Member of the Audit 
Committee & Nomination Committee
Stephen is a non-executive director of 
Timpson Group plc and Chairman of 
Business West Ltd. Stephen’s career has 
spanned 14 years on the boards of major 
UK retailers and earlier roles with Mars 
Inc, Unilever and Alberto-Culver. Stephen 
served for seven years as Marketing 
Director at B&Q plc before leading the 
acquisition of Screwfix Direct which he then 
chaired. Previous positions also include 
board membership of Woolworth plc and 
Director of Communications at Kingfisher 
plc. He is a former Chairman, and now 
fellow, of the Marketing Society, and is 
former Director General of British Retail 
Consortium (BRC).
8. Jonathan Bloomer, FCA
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 59
Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
September 2006. Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee, 
member of the Nomination Committee
Jonathan was formerly a partner of 
Cerberus European Capital Advisors, 
the UK arm of Cerberus Capital and has 
previously been the Chief Executive of 
Lucida plc and Group Chief Executive of 
Prudential. He also spent twenty years in 
practice with Arthur Andersen LLP and was 
Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the 
FSA. His previous positions also include 
board membership of the Association 
of British Insurers, Geneva Association, 
Railtrack plc and Autonomy plc. Jonathan 
is also a Trustee and the Treasurer of the 
NSPCC, and non-executive Chairman of JLT 
Employee Benefits Group .
5. Chris Barling, BSc
Non-Executive Director, 57
Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
August 2010. Member of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee
Chris has over 30 years’ IT industry 
experience and formerly held senior IT 
roles in Cable & Wireless and Reuters. He 
is the co-founder of Actinic, the software 
company specialising in ecommerce 
solutions for SMEs.  Chris is Chairman of 
Private Software Limited, and its wholly 
owned subsidiaries, including SellerDeck 
Limited, director of Powered Now Limited, 
and non-executive director of i-KMP 
Limited.
5
6
7
8 34 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Corporate Governance
The Group operates within a 
clear governance framework, 
which is outlined in the 
diagram below and set out in 
the report that follows. The 
Group’s internal control and 
risk management framework is 
described below in the Internal 
Controls section.
The executive directors are directly 
responsible for running the business 
operations.  The non-executive directors are 
responsible for constructively challenging 
proposals on strategy, scrutinising the 
performance of management, determining 
levels of remuneration and for succession 
planning for the executive directors. The 
non-executive directors must also satisfy 
themselves on the integrity of financial 
information and that financial controls and 
systems of risk management are robust.
Certain responsibilities of the Board 
are delegated to the Board Committees 
to assist the Board in carrying out its 
functions and to ensure independent 
oversight of internal control and risk 
management.  Other non-board committees 
form part of the Corporate Governance 
framework, but are not formally appointed 
committees of the Board. These committees 
feed back to the main Board and Board 
Committees via an executive Director where 
appropriate.  
The Board is responsible for:
• defining, challenging and interrogating the strategic direction of the Group; 
• determining risk appetite, and to ensure risk, regulatory and compliance 
management within the Group is effective; 
• monitoring financial, risk and operating performance against delivery of 
the agreed strategy;
• engaging with shareholders; and
• ensuring solid succession planning by effectively managing the Group’s 
talent and capital.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc governance framework
Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board
Executive Committee
External audit
Internal audit
Audit 
Committee
Treasury 
Committee
Investment
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Interest Rate
Committee
Remuneration Committee
IT Steering Group
Board 
Committee
Risk 
Committee
Non-Board Committee 35 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Corporate Governance
Statement of compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code
During the year ended 30 June 2013, 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it has 
applied the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) with the 
following exception:
1. Board effectiveness and performance 
evaluation
We did not comply with Section B.6.1 of the 
Code which states that the evaluation of 
the Board should be externally facilitated 
at least every three years. This year, as 
per the two previous years, the Board 
carried out an internally facilitated review, 
led by the Chairman. Prior to deciding to 
perform an internal review, the Board fully 
debated the issue having due regard to 
the requirements of the Code. In reaching 
its decision the Board took account of the 
following factors: the Group had enjoyed 
another successful business year, the 
two most recent non-executive recruits 
were still relatively new to the Board, the 
previous internally led evaluations have 
led to positive developments and the 
presence of the largest shareholder on 
the Board ensures that the Board’s focus 
remains on driving shareholder value. 
Finally the culture of the Group is to avoid 
unnecessary discretionary spending and 
the Board deemed the prospective costs 
of an externally facilitated review would 
outweigh the likely additional value 
and therefore not in the best interest of 
shareholders.
Further explanation of how the principles 
and supporting principles of the Code have 
been applied is set out in this Corporate 
Governance statement and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report.   A copy of the Code 
is publicly available on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk. 
The Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP , is 
required to review whether the above 
statement reflects the Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for its 
review by the Listing Rules and to report if 
it does not reflect such compliance; no such 
report has been made.
The Board 
Board size, composition and changes 
during the year
As at 30 June 2013 there were eight 
Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four 
other independent non-executive directors, 
and three executive directors. The size 
and composition of the Board is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and, in particular 
the Nominations Committee, to ensure that 
there is an appropriate and diverse mix of 
skills and experience.
During the year, the following change was 
made:
• Stephen Lansdown retired from the 
Board as a non-executive director on 23 
November 2012
Details on our Board members, including 
other directorships, are on pages 32 to 33.
In April 2013, having due regard to 
succession planning, the Nominations 
Committee commenced the search for 
a new non-executive director with the 
necessary background and qualification to 
become in due course the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. 
Independence of non-executive directors
The Code sets out the circumstances 
that should be relevant to the Board in 
determining whether each non-executive 
director is independent. We have given due 
regard to provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the Board has 
concluded that Dharmash Mistry, Stephen 
Robertson, Chris Barling and Jonathan 
Bloomer were independent directors 
throughout the financial year.  Michael 
Evans was independent on appointment as 
Chairman.  Jonathan Bloomer is currently the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.  
Diversity
When assessing new appointments to our 
Board, we review carefully the combined 
skills and experience of the existing Board 
members to determine what characteristics 
we are looking for from a new director. 
Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown 
board must have the skills, experience and 
character that will enable each director to 
contribute both individually, and as part 
of the team, to the effectiveness of the 
board and the success of the Company. 
We believe that diversity amongst board 
members is of great value but that diversity 
is a far wider subject than just gender. We 
will give careful consideration to issues 
of overall board balance and diversity in 
making new appointments to the board. 
As of today, the board numbers eight in 
total, of which three are executive and five 
independent (including the Chairman). 
Women directors constitute 12.5% of 
the board and 12.5% of the Executive 
Committee (22% when including the 
Company Secretary). Subject to the 
requirements set out above, Hargreaves 
Lansdown will aim to maintain female 
representation on the board at least at the 
current level and give due consideration 
to increasing the level if appropriate 
candidates are available when board 
vacancies arise. 
A copy of our full statement on Board 
Diversity can be found on www.hl.co.uk
Roles and responsibilities of the Board
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the management and performance of the 
Group. It sets the strategic direction of 
the Group, determines the appropriate 
risk appetite, and ensures that sufficient 
resources in talent and capital are in 
place to achieve the objectives set and 
ensures solid succession planning for 
senior management. It ensures that risk, 
regulatory and compliance management 
are done appropriately. The Board reviews 
performance, including that of the 
management team and senior executives. 
It is the decision-making body for all other 
matters deemed material to the Group in 
strategic, financial and reputational terms.  
The non-executive directors constructively 
challenge the management team and 
supplement the executive directors' 
management expertise with a diversity of 
business skills and experience. 
The Directors are also responsible for 
ensuring that obligations to shareholders 
and other stakeholders are understood 
and met, and that a satisfactory dialogue 
with shareholders is maintained. All 
Directors are equally accountable to our 
shareholders for the proper stewardship of 
our affairs and the success of the Company. 36 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Except for a formal schedule of matters 
reserved for decision by the Board, 
the Board has delegated the day-to-
day management of the Group to the 
Chief Executive who is supported by the 
Executive Committee and senior executives.  
The Chief Executive and executive directors 
of the Group are responsible to the Board 
for developing strategy and the profitability 
and overall performance of the Group. 
There is a documented schedule of matters 
which are reserved for Board decision and 
approval. These matters are significant to 
the Group as a whole due to their strategic, 
financial or reputational implications, 
and include, but are not limited to, the 
agreement of strategies, recommendation 
of dividends, approval of acquisitions and 
major capital expenditure. In addition, 
it is only the Board which can appoint 
and remove Directors and our Company 
Secretary. The Board also has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal controls and risk management.  
Risk management arrangements are 
described below.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive are clearly defined, separate and 
approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the 
operation, leadership and governance of 
the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and 
setting its agenda.  In conjunction with the 
Chief Executive and Company Secretary, 
the Chairman plans agenda items and 
timings for Board meetings. The Chairman 
ensures that the membership of the Board is 
appropriate to the needs of the business and 
that Board committees carry out their duties, 
including reporting back to the Board.
The Chief Executive has executive 
responsibilities for the operations, results 
and strategic development of the Group. He 
is responsible for the delivery of strategy 
and leads the executive management team.
Board support
The Company Secretary is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring Board procedures 
are followed, applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with and that 
the Board is advised on governance and 
relevant regulatory matters.  All Directors 
have access to the services of the Company 
Secretary.    
In order for Directors to fulfil their 
duties they can also seek independent 
professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense.  
Board meetings 
The Board convenes at least four times each 
financial year, and convened five times in 
the last financial year.
Meetings are held in such a way as to 
encourage robust and constructive challenge 
and debate which enables the non-executive 
directors to use their knowledge and 
experience to critically review strategies 
proposed by management.  This approach 
ensures that we act in the long-term best 
interests of our shareholders.
Between Board meetings, Directors are 
provided with monthly information packs 
which include detailed commentary and 
analysis.  To ensure that Directors are 
as fully informed as possible, minutes 
are circulated from each Committee, 
including the Executive Committee, and 
each Board meeting includes a report 
from the Committees as appropriate.  The 
Chairman and non-executive directors 
have also held meetings separate to those 
with the executive Directors, including 
meeting with the external auditor and the 
Head of Internal Audit. From July 2013, 
the Board is introducing interim board 
meetings to fall between the four main 
board meetings, which will take place in the 
form of conference calls.  These will further 
help the non-Executive Directors keep fully 
informed of recent developments and will 
ensure that Directors fully work together to 
ensure the smooth running of the business.
Directors
Under the existing Articles of Association 
all directors have to submit themselves 
for re-election annually if they wish to 
continue serving and are considered 
by the Board to be eligible.   All current 
directors bar one wish to be re-elected 
and the Board confirms that all individual 
performance reviews demonstrated that the 
directors continue to demonstrate effective 
performance and commitment to their 
roles.  Jonathan Bloomer has given notice 
that he will be stepping down from the 
Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company maintains insurance cover 
for up to £20 million for all directors 
and officers of Group companies against 
liability which may be incurred acting as 
directors and officers and this remains in 
force at the date of this report.
Training
Our Chairman is responsible for preparing 
and implementing a personalised induction 
programme for all new Directors, to include 
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities 
and liabilities as a director of the Company.  
We believe that the best way to learn about 
a business is to spend time within it, and 
we encourage new Directors to spend time 
with our senior managers and executives in 
a number of business areas and to receive 
demonstrations of key operations and 
systems where relevant. 
Our overall objective is to maintain and 
enhance professional standards for all 
our employees.  We believe that these 
standards are particularly important for all 
staff who fall under the scope of the FCA 
Training and Competence rules.  All staff 
under the scope of these rules are required 
to perform certain training annually.  
Every director has access to appropriate 
training throughout their appointment 
as director and we regularly assess the 
requirement for director training as part of 
each director’s annual appraisal.
Board effectiveness and performance 
evaluation
This year, the Board carried out an internally 
facilitated board effectiveness review. The 
review was led by the Chairman and covered 
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, 
its individual Directors and its Committees.  
All directors contributed to the review with 
one-to-one discussions with the Chairman. 
In addition, the non-executive directors and 
the Chairman met collectively to discuss the 
performance of the Board.  The initial output 
from the review was discussed by the Board 
at its meeting in May and the final report 
tabled and agreed in August. The outcome 
of the review was positive with a number 
of agreed actions to be pursued in the 
coming year. These include a greater focus 
on strategy and its implementation, the 
introduction of four interim board meetings  37 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
by way of conference calls, improvement in 
the timeliness of Board paper circulation 
and greater cohesiveness in the challenge 
provided by the non-executive directors. 
Individual appraisal of each director’s 
performance is undertaken by either the Chief 
Executive or Chairman each year and involves 
meetings with each director on a one-to-one 
basis.   The non-executive directors, led 
by the senior independent director, carry 
out an appraisal of the performance of the 
Chairman.  The Chief Executive’s performance 
was evaluated by the Chairman with input 
from the rest of the Board.
Board committees 
This section of the report sets out how 
the Board and its Committees work within 
the Group’s governance framework and 
corporate governance guidelines.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are 
delegated to the Board Committees to 
assist the Board in carrying out its functions 
and to ensure independent oversight of 
internal control and risk management. The 
three principal Board Committees (Audit, 
Remuneration, and Nomination) play an 
essential role in supporting the Board in 
fulfilling its responsibilities. The minutes 
of each Board Committee meeting are 
circulated and noted by the Board.  
The Board Committees all have formal 
Terms of Reference that have been 
approved by the Board, and performance 
of the Committees is assessed annually 
by the Board.  Each Committee’s terms of 
reference sets out the specific matters for 
which delegated authority has been given 
by the Board. These terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and the terms of 
reference of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee are available on the 
Group’s website (www.hl.co.uk/investor-
relations).  A summary of the terms of 
reference for each committee is included in 
the committee summaries below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
assisting the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities for:
• monitoring of the financial reporting 
process including the integrity of 
the annual and interim reports, 
preliminary results and any other formal 
announcements relating to financial 
performance; 
• risk reporting; 
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems; 
• monitoring and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
Audit function;
• making recommendations to the 
Board, for a resolution to be put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general 
meetings in relation to the appointment 
of the external auditor and the approval 
of the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor; and
• reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit 
process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements.
The Audit Committee is required to report 
its findings to the Board, identifying any 
matters in respect of which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed, and 
make recommendations as to the steps to 
be taken.
The Audit Committee has also continued 
to monitor our public interest disclosure 
(Whistleblowing) policy which contains 
details of the process by which employees 
can raise, in confidence, complaints on 
accounting, risk issues, internal controls, 
auditing issues and related matters for 
reporting to the Audit Committee as 
appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will 
be available at the Annual General Meeting 
to answer any questions about the work of 
the Committee.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee at 30 
June 2013 were:
Jonathan Bloomer - Chairman (Chartered 
Accountant) – appointed 18 September 
2006
Chris Barling – appointed 26 August 2010
Dharmash Mistry – appointed 3 October 
2011
Stephen Robertson – appointed 3 October 
2011
On an on-going basis, membership of the 
Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of 
the Committee at regular intervals and any 
recommendations for new appointments 
are made to the Nomination Committee 
for onward recommendation to the Board.  
Appointments are for a period of three 
years and are extendable by no more 
than two additional three-year periods. 
The Audit Committee structure requires 
the inclusion of one financially qualified 
member and our Committee Chairman 
currently fulfils this requirement.   
The Board expects the Audit Committee 
members to have an understanding of:
• the principles of financial reporting 
including applicable accounting 
standards and statements of 
recommended practice;
• key aspects of the Group’s operations 
and systems of internal control;
• matters that influence or distort the 
presentation of accounts and key figures;
• the principles of, and developments in, 
company law, sector-specific laws and 
other relevant corporate legislation;
• the role of internal and external auditing 
and risk management;
• the regulatory framework for the Group’s 
businesses; and
• environmental and social responsibility 
best practices.
The Board is satisfied that all of the 
Committee’s members have a level of 
recent and relevant commercial and 
financial knowledge and experience to 
satisfy the provisions of the Code.  The 
Group provides an induction programme 
for new Audit Committee members and 
on-going training to enable all of the 
Committee members to carry out their 
duties.  The induction programme covers 
the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of 
reference and expected time commitment 
by members, and an overview of the 
Group’s business, including the main 
business and financial dynamics and 
risks.  New Committee members also meet 
some of the Group’s staff, as appropriate.  
On-going training includes attendance at 
formal conferences, internal briefings and 
briefings by external advisers.
Meetings
The Audit Committee meets at least four 
times each year but more frequently when  38 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
required, and met four times during this 
financial year.  The attendance by each 
director is set out in the table on page 40.  
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief 
Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer 
and Chief Executive Officer are routinely 
invited to, and attend, the majority of 
meetings, although the Committee reserves 
the right to request any of these individuals 
to withdraw.  The external auditor also 
attended all meetings, and periodically the 
Committee also meets privately with the 
external auditor and the Head of Internal 
Audit.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit 
Committee to discharge its duties
During the 12 months to 30 June 2013 
the Audit Committee has undertaken the 
following key responsibilities:
• reviewed the financial statements in the 
2012 reports and accounts and the interim 
report issued in February 2013.  As part 
of this review the Committee received a 
report from the external auditor on its 
audit of the annual reports and accounts 
and review of the interim report;
• received updates from the Risk 
Committee and considered the output 
from the Group-wide process used to 
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks;
• reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls and disclosures made 
in the annual report and accounts on this 
matter;
• reviewed and agreed the terms of 
engagement of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the external auditor;
• reviewed and updated the ‘Use of 
External Auditors’ policy;
• considered a report from the external 
auditor on its observations of controls 
across the Group;
• agreed the fees to be paid to the external 
auditor for its audit of the 2013 accounts 
and interim report and reviewed the 
confirmation of auditor independence;
• undertaken an evaluation of the 
performance of the Internal Audit 
function and reviewed the level and 
nature of non-audit activity performed by 
Internal Audit;
• reviewed the qualification and 
experience of the Internal Audit 
department so that it can deliver an 
agreed programme of work;
• undertaken an evaluation of the 
performance of the external auditor;
• undertaken a tender process for the 
appointment of a new external auditor;
• made a recommendation to the board 
regarding the appointment of a new 
external auditor;
• received reports from the Head of Internal 
Audit on the work undertaken by Internal 
Audit and management responses to 
proposals made in the audit reports 
issued by the function during the year; 
• reviewed the Group’s Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) 
report;
• reviewed the Group’s ‘Resolution and 
Recovery Pack; and
• reviewed its own effectiveness.
External Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible 
for the development, implementation 
and monitoring of the Group’s policy 
on external audit.  The policy assigns 
oversight responsibility for monitoring the 
independence, objectivity and compliance 
with ethical and regulatory requirements 
to the Audit Committee, and day to day 
responsibility to the Group Finance 
Director.  The policy states that the external 
auditor is jointly responsible to the Board 
and the Audit Committee and that the Audit 
Committee is the primary contact.
The Group’s policy on external audit can be 
found on the Group’s website at www.hl.co.
uk.  It sets out the categories of non-audit 
services which the external auditor will 
and will not be allowed to provide to the 
Group, subject to de minimis levels and 
Audit Committee Chairman approval.  The 
level of non-audit fees during 2013 were 
£nil (2012: £35k). Following feedback from 
the AGM last year, the ‘Use of External 
Auditors’ policy has been tightened, such 
that our external auditor may only be used 
for non-audit work where there are specific 
circumstances which mean they are the 
only firm able to provide a good service at 
an acceptable price.
The existing external auditor, Deloitte, has 
been in office since 2006, prior to the IPO in 
2007. Recognising the requirement in the 
2012 edition of the Code that the external 
audit tender contract should be put out 
to tender at least every ten years and that 
the tenure of current audit partner is four 
years, the Audit Committee determined that 
this year was the right time to go to tender.  
Following a suitable tendering process, the 
Audit Committee has recommended to the 
Board that PwC is appointed as new external 
auditor at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Audit Function
The Audit Committee is required to assist 
the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating 
to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans 
of the Internal Audit department.  Having 
conducted a review of the Internal Audit 
department the Committee is happy with its 
resources and plans. The Institute of Internal 
Auditors recommend that an external review 
of the Internal Audit function is carried out 
no less than every five years.  Our Internal 
Audit function had a satisfactory external 
review carried out in May 2012.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for the framework or broad 
policy for the fair remuneration of the 
executive directors of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as well as their performance 
management.  The policy is determined 
with due regard to the interests of the 
Company and the shareholders.  The 
Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board.  No director plays a part 
in any discussion about his or her 
own remuneration.  The Remuneration 
Committee meets at least twice per 
year and is governed by formal Terms of 
Reference, which are reviewed annually.
 
The Remuneration Committee met five 
times during this financial year.  The 
attendance by each director is set out in 
the table on page 40.  The Committee is 
chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its other 
members at 30 June 2013 were Michael 
Evans, Chris Barling and Dharmash 
Mistry.  None of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other than as 
shareholders), conflicts of interests arising 
from cross-directorships or day-to-day 
involvement in running the business.
The Committee’s purpose is to:
• determine and recommend to the Board 
the remuneration policy for the executive 
Directors of the Company and of the 
subsidiary companies;
• ensure the level and structure of 
remuneration is designed to attract, 
retain, and motivate the executive 
Directors needed to run the Company and  39 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
the Group; and 
• monitor the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management.
The performance measurement of the 
Directors and key members of senior 
management and the determination of 
their annual remuneration packages 
are undertaken by the Committee.  
The Committee also ensures that the 
remuneration relationship between the 
Directors and senior employees of the 
Company is appropriate and that the 
remuneration policy complies with the 
FCA Remuneration Code.  Any exceptional 
remuneration arrangements for senior 
employees are advised to the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee leads the 
process for Board appointments, re-
election and succession of directors and 
the Chairman.  It is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board concerning 
the composition and skills of the Board 
including proposed appointees to the 
Board, whether to fill any vacancies that 
may arise or to change the number of Board 
members.  
The Committee had been chaired by 
Jonathan Bloomer until May 2013 when 
Michael Evans was elected chairman. 
Jonathan Bloomer stood down as Chairman 
but remained a member of the Committee. 
The Committee’s other members at 30 June 
2013 were Chris Barling, Dharmash Mistry 
and Stephen Robertson.   The Nomination 
Committee meets at least twice each year 
and the Committee met three times during 
the year.  The attendance by each director 
is set out in the table on page 40.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
directors to the Board. The process involves 
the Nomination Committee interviewing 
suitable candidates who are proposed by 
existing Board members, by an external 
search company, or via searches performed 
by the Company itself.  Consideration 
will be given to ensure appointees have 
enough time available to devote to the role 
and that the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board will be 
maintained.  When the Committee has 
found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of 
the Committee will make a proposal to the 
whole Board and the appointment is the 
responsibility of the whole Board following 
recommendation from the Committee. 
During the year the activities of the 
Committee have included:
• reviewing its terms of reference;
• reviewing the requirements for potential 
independent non-executive candidates;
• commencing the recruitment process 
for a new independent non-executive 
director; and
• formulation of appropriate succession 
plans. 
In April 2013, the Committee commenced 
a search for a new non-executive director. 
This search recognised that Jonathan 
Bloomer has been in office for nearly seven 
years and given that none of the other 
non-executive directors have the necessary 
financial qualification to chair the Audit 
Committee, it was prudent to appoint a 
new director capable of taking on the role 
of Chair of the Audit Committee in due 
course. The Committee determined the 
search criteria to be used. The recruitment 
consisted of a targeted mailing of some 
9,000 of our clients and this would be 
supplemented by contacting an internally 
derived list of potential candidates 
from the networks of directors and also 
recommendations from key contacts in 
the accountancy profession. This process 
produced 86 applications. After two rounds 
of interviews, a preferred candidate has 
been selected and, subject to regulatory 
clearance, will join the Board in due course.  
Other committees
These committees form part of the 
Corporate Governance framework, but 
are not formally appointed non-executive 
committees of the Board.  The two main 
Committees are the Executive Committee 
and the Risk Committee:
Executive Committee
The Board has delegated full authority to 
the Executive Committee subject to a list 
of matters which are reserved for decision 
by the full Board only.  In particular, the 
Executive Committee is responsible to 
the Chief Executive for developing and 
monitoring every aspect of the Group’s 
business on a continuing basis, for 
developing and implementing business 
strategy as agreed by the Board and 
ensuring that day-to-day operations are 
conducted in accordance with the relevant 
regulatory and statutory requirements.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the 
Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his 
absence by Peter Hargreaves.  During the 
year the committee also comprised the 
Chief Financial Officer, Tracey Taylor, and 
the following:
• Nigel Bence – Chief Operating Officer
• Alex Davies – Director of Pensions 
• Nick Marson – Vantage and Broking 
Operations Director 
• Ian Hunter – Investment Marketing 
Director 
• David Davies – IT Director
• Theresa Barry – Group Marketing Director 
(until October 2012)
 
Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee 
Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are invited to 
attend the Executive Committee.  
Biographies of the above are available 
on our website: www.hl.co.uk/investor-
relations.
The Executive Committee meets at least 
quarterly but more frequently when 
required, and met four times during the 
current financial year.  The attendance by 
each director is set out in the table below.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief 
Operating Officer and also comprises the 
Chief Risk Officer, IT Director, and a non-
executive Director.  The Committee reports 
back to the Board and the Audit Committee 
on the management of the major risks 
facing the Group as assessed against the 
Group’s Risk Appetite.
We also have a Treasury Committee, 
which oversees changes to the treasury 
management policy, an Investment 
Committee, which monitors the 
investments held in the HL multi-manager 
funds, as well as an Interest Rate 
Committee and an IT Steering Group.   40 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Relations with shareholders
We are committed to maintaining good 
communications with our shareholders.  
We have a programme of communication 
with shareholders based on our financial 
reporting calendar including the interim 
and annual reports, Interim Management 
Statements, the AGM and the Investor 
Relations section of the corporate website 
at www.hl.co.uk.  
In addition to this, the CEO, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chairman meet 
with institutional investors after results 
announcements and upon request on an ad 
hoc basis during the year. They, together 
with the Company Secretary, also provide 
a point of contact for investors who wish to 
raise queries or concerns.  
Jonathan Bloomer, our Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, was also available 
to meet key investors. 
Following dialogue with individual 
institutional shareholders, the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director ensured the Board was fully 
briefed on shareholders' views such 
that any issues or concerns were fully 
understood and considered by the Board.   
Analyst and broker briefings are regularly 
provided to the Board.  In addition, the 
Group’s brokers sought feedback from 
investors following the 2012 final and 2013 
interim results, and this feedback was 
reported to the Board.
All Directors made themselves available 
to meet shareholders at our AGM and 
they value the opportunity of welcoming 
individual shareholders and other investors 
to communicate directly and address their 
questions.  
To ensure compliance with the Code, at 
all general meetings separate resolutions 
are proposed on each discrete subject.  
Resolutions have been passed on a show 
of hands, and proxy votes for, against and 
withheld for each resolution are displayed 
at the meeting.  Following the AGM, the 
results of voting are published through a 
Regulatory Information Service and on our 
website.
 
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee
   Remuneration Nomination Executive
 Board   Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee
 meetings * meetings meetings meetings  meetings
Directors 
Ian Gorham 5/5 - - - 4/4
Peter Hargreaves 5/5 - - - 4/4
Tracey Taylor 5/5 - - - 4/4
Michael Evans 5/5 - 5/5 3/3 -
Jonathan Bloomer 5/5 5/5 5/5 3/3 -
Chris Barling  5/5 5/5 5/5 3/3 -
Dharmash Mistry  3/3 5/5 5/5 3/3 -
Stephen Robertson  3/3 5/5 - 3/3 -
Executive Committee     
Theresa Barry
1
 - - - - 0/1
Nigel Bence - - - - 4/4
Alex Davies - - - - 4/4
Nick Marson - - - - 4/4
Ian Hunter - - - - 4/4
David Davies - - - - 3/4
* Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by 
telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice. In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, one additional meeting was held to discuss and 
approve the disposal of the Company’s investment in Beringea LLC.  (1) Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in October 2012. 41 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Through the monitoring processes set out 
below, the Board has conducted a review of 
the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control during the year ended 30 June 2013. 
The system of internal control is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives 
and provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance as to the effectiveness of the 
safeguards protecting the business against 
the risk of material error, loss or fraud.  In 
that context, the review, in the opinion 
of the Board, did not indicate that the 
system was ineffective or unsatisfactory 
and the Board is not aware of any change 
to this status up to the date of approval 
of this Annual Report. However, in 
acknowledgement that the business and 
the risks it faces are continually evolving 
and as part of a process of continuous 
improvement, steps are being taken to 
further embed internal controls and risk 
management into business operations.
 
Internal Control Framework 
The Board is responsible for the Group's 
systems of internal control and risk 
management and for reviewing their 
effectiveness, the key features of which are 
outlined in the chart above and detailed 
below:
Terms of Reference
The Board operates within clearly defined 
terms of reference, and it reserves certain 
matters for its own consideration and 
decision. It has established appropriate 
committees to oversee control activities.  
These committees also have clearly 
defined terms of reference. The Board and 
Committee processes are fundamental to 
the effectiveness of our internal controls. 
Our business performance is monitored 
closely by the Board and senior 
management, in particular monitoring of:
• progress towards strategic objectives;
• financial performance, within a 
framework including forecasting, 
financial reporting, reviewing variances 
against plan and taking appropriate 
management action; and
• risk management processes. 
Organisational structure and policies
The Board regularly reviews the Group's 
organisational structure to seek to ensure 
that clearly defined lines of responsibility 
exist, with appropriate delegation of 
authority.  Periodic reviews take place 
to ensure that staff of the right calibre 
are employed, particularly in key roles.  
Roles and responsibilities are clearly 
communicated to each member of staff 
within their ‘Apportionment forms’.  These 
forms are reviewed annually and updated if 
necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the Group's 
policies. The Group's Treasury function 
operates within a well-defined policy 
designed to manage the Group's liquidity 
arrangements and to manage its exposure 
to risks, such as interest rate risk and 
counterparty risk.
Our public interest disclosure 
(Whistleblowing) policy encourages 
employees to raise concerns about 
anything that they suspect is fraudulent, 
corrupt, dangerous or seriously 
wrong.  They can raise concerns on a 
confidential basis, enabling proportionate 
and independent investigation to be 
undertaken.
We thoroughly investigate any allegations 
of misconduct and irregularity and consider 
the implications for our control environment. 
Due to the nature of our business, we are 
subject to attempted fraud on a regular 
basis.  Strict processes and controls mean 
that we are able to identify attacks and deal 
with them appropriately on a timely basis.  
We are continually looking at ways of making 
our clients’ transactions with us more secure 
and have dedicated resource within the 
business whose focus is on managing fraud 
risk. 
Group Risk Strategy
The Group Risk Strategy requires senior 
managers to identify, evaluate and manage 
risks in their business units. Regular 
meetings are held between department 
managers and the Chief Risk Officer to 
ensure that risk management remains 
high on the agenda of the business.  
Internal controls 
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee
Terms of
reference
External
audit
Regulatory
supervision and
monitoring
Organisational 
structure and 
policies
Group Risk
Strategy
Management
Information
Risk
Committee
Remuneration
policy
Our values
and culture
Group
Finance
Group
Compliance
Internal
Audit
Internal control
framework
Internal control framework 42 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Target dates for resolution of issues are 
continually monitored.  A summary of 
significant risks is provided within the 
Business Review. 
Risk management processes within the 
Group accord with the ‘Internal Control: 
Guidance to Directors’ (formerly the 
Turnbull guidance), and are supported by 
reports from the Internal Audit function 
which include focus on significant risks 
faced by the Company. 
Management information
Detailed packs of key information 
are circulated monthly to our senior 
management and Non-executive Directors.  
This includes key financial and operational 
performance indicators.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee reports to the 
Board and the Audit Committee on the 
management of the major risks facing the 
Group as assessed against the Group’s Risk 
Appetite.
Remuneration policy
Risk management is embedded into the 
Apportionment Forms of every employee 
and awareness and mitigation of the risks 
faced by the Company are key factors 
used to evaluate individual performance.   
This policy creates an environment which 
ensures excessive risk taking is not 
rewarded.
Employees also have the opportunity to 
invest in regular Save As You Earn share 
schemes as we believe that nothing will 
better encourage employees to look after 
the long-term future of the Company than 
being shareholders themselves.   Similarly, 
exceptional performance by key employees 
and senior managers will be rewarded with 
the grant of executive share awards which 
we believe both incentivises and assists 
retention of key members of staff.
Our values and culture
Any system of internal control is dependent 
on the people operating it.  ‘Our Culture’ 
defines what we expect from our people.  
We pride ourselves on the culture which 
exists within the Company.  We have a ‘one-
firm’ mentality which helps everyone take 
responsibility for the whole of the business.   
We have a saying “success comes from 
putting the client first, Hargreaves 
Lansdown second and your department 
third.”  This engenders service levels which 
many other companies can only aspire to 
and ensures that the requirements of our 
clients are foremost in our employees’ 
decision making process.
    
Group Finance
The Group Finance department manages 
our financial reporting processes to 
ensure the information which enables our 
Board to discharge its responsibilities is 
provided on a timely basis. It ensures cost 
controls are in place and that the business 
efficiently manages its resources.  It also 
produces a financial forecast based on 
the strategic and operational plans of the 
business which is continuously reviewed 
to determine the likely year-end outcome 
and is used to plan and review regulatory 
capital requirements. 
Group Compliance 
Our Compliance function manages 
relationships with the Group's key 
regulators alongside identifying major 
compliance and regulatory risks.  Our 
Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) 
forms part of the Compliance team and is 
responsible for ensuring we have suitable 
anti-money laundering (AML) procedures 
and controls.  The MLRO is also responsible 
for ensuring adequate AML training for all 
staff. The MLRO specifically considers the 
risk of loss through financial crime and the 
controls in place to mitigate the risk of such 
loss.
Internal Audit
Our Internal Audit function reports to the 
Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key 
internal controls.
External audit and regulatory supervision
The majority of the activities of the Group, 
including the systems of business control, 
are subject to supervision by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. The Group is required on 
a regular basis to submit detailed prudential 
and statistical returns covering all areas of 
its business and meets regularly with its 
supervisors, conducting the relationship in 
an open and constructive manner.
In addition to the above, the Audit 
Committee also receives reports from our 
external auditor. 43 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Directors’ report - other information
The Directors’ report and business review
Pages 1 to 44 inclusive of this Annual report 
consist of a Directors’ report and business 
review that has been drawn up and presented 
in accordance with, and in reliance on, 
English company law. The liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that Directors’ 
report and business review shall be subject 
to the limitations and restrictions provided by 
the Companies Act 2006.  
Forward-looking statements
The Directors’ report and business review is 
prepared for the members of the Company 
and should not be relied upon by any other 
party or for any other purpose. Where 
the Directors’ report and business review 
includes forward-looking statements, these 
are made by the Directors in good faith 
based on the information available to them 
at the time of their approval of this report. 
Consequently such statements should be 
treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties, including both economic 
and business risk factors, underlying 
such forward-looking statements and 
information.
Principal Group Activities
Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent 
company of a group of companies which 
offers a range of investment products, 
investment services, financial planning and 
advice to private investors and advisory 
services to companies in respect of group 
pension schemes. Further details of the 
business activities are contained in the 
Business Review on pages 16 to 20.
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group 
during the year are listed in note 15 to 
the financial statements.  The principal 
trading subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited, Hargreaves 
Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited, 
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers 
Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown 
Advisory Services Limited, are authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Risk Management
Details of the Group’s policy on risk 
management has been made in note 27 
of the notes to the consolidated financial 
statements related to various financial 
instruments and exposure of the Group to 
financial, market, liquidity and credit risk.
Share Capital
The Company’s shares are listed on the 
main market of the London Stock Exchange.  
The Company’s authorised and issued 
share capital during the year and as at 30 
June 2013 is shown in note 21.  The ordinary 
shares rank pari passu in all respects.  Save 
as agreed at the Annual General Meeting of 
the shareholders, the ordinary shares have 
pre-emption rights in respect of any future 
issues of ordinary shares to the extent 
conferred by Section 561 of the Companies 
Act.  
Directors’ Interests
During the period covered by this report, no director had any material interest in a contract 
to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party other than their 
own service contract, requiring disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 except in respect of the rental of the office premises at Kendal House as disclosed in 
note 26 to the financial statements.
The directors who held office at 30 June 2013 had the following interests (including 
beneficial interests) in the shares of the Company.  These interests are exclusive of any 
interests under Share Options. Details of Share Options which have been granted to 
directors as at the date of this report pursuant to employee share schemes are set out in 
the Directors’ Remuneration report. There have been no changes to the directors’ interests  
in the shares of the Company since the year-end.
(1) S Lansdown was no longer a non-executive director at 30 June 2013 and so his shareholding for the purposes of 
‘Directors Interests’ is shown as nil.
 Number and % of  Number and % of
 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
 at 30 June 2013   at 30 June 2012
Non-executive directors  
J Bloomer 15,625 (<0.01%) 15,625 (<0.01%)
C Barling - -
M Evans 15,625 (<0.01%) 15,625 (<0.01%)
S Lansdown 
(1)
 - 95,500,000 (20.13%)
D Mistry 5,308 (<0.01%) 5,308 (<0.01%)
S Robertson 16,914 (<0.01%) 11,219 (<0.01%)
Executive directors  
I Gorham 282,628 (0.06%) -
P Hargreaves 152,717,606 (32.20%) 152,717,606 (32.20%)
T Taylor 745,641 (0.16%) 745,641 (0.16%)
Total 153,799,347 (32.43%) 249,011,024 (52.50%) 44 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Beneficial owners of shares with 
‘information rights’
Beneficial owners of shares who have been 
nominated by the registered holder of those 
shares to receive information rights under 
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are 
required to direct all communications to 
the registered holder of their shares rather 
than to the Company’s registrar, Equiniti 
Registrars, or to the Group directly.
Model Code
The Company has its own internal dealing 
rules which extend the FCA Listing Rules 
Model Code provisions to all employees.
Supplier Payment Policy 
The Company’s policy, which is also 
applied by the Group, is to settle terms 
of payment with suppliers when agreeing 
the terms of each transaction, ensure that 
suppliers are made aware of the terms 
of payment and abide by the terms of 
payment. The Company has signed up 
to the Prompt Payment Code which is 
designed to promote best practice between 
organisations and their suppliers. Trade 
creditors of the Group at 30 June 2013 were 
equivalent to 18 (2012: 25) days’ purchases, 
based on the average daily amount 
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Annual General Meeting 
At the Annual General Meeting on 25 
October 2013, the following two items of 
special business will be tabled:
i) Authority to purchase own shares: The 
Company was granted authority at the 
AGM in 2012 to purchase its own shares 
up to an aggregate value of 10% of the 
issued nominal capital. This authority 
expires at this year’s AGM and a special 
resolution will be proposed for its 
renewal.
The resolution enabling directors to allot 
unissued shares will be limited to the 
allotment of shares up to a maximum 
nominal amount of £202,725.50, which 
represented the difference between the 
Company’s authorised and issued share 
capital at 10 September 2013. The directors 
do not have any present intention of 
exercising such authority and the authority 
will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM 
after the passing of the proposed resolution.  
ii) Directors’ authority to allot shares and 
waiver of pre-emption rights: Resolutions 
are to be proposed as special business at 
the AGM on 25 October 2013 to enable the 
directors to allot unissued shares and, 
subject to the limits therein contained, 
to allot shares for cash other than to 
existing shareholders in proportion to 
their shareholdings. 
The resolution enabling the directors to allot 
shares other than to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their shareholdings is limited 
to the allotment of shares up to a maximum 
nominal value of £94,863.72, which 
represents 5% of the total ordinary share 
capital in issue as at 10 September 2013. 
Both of these resolutions seek authorities 
which are in accordance with the current 
guidelines issued by the Investment 
Committees of the Association of British 
Insurers and the National Association of 
Pension Funds.
PwC has expressed their willingness to 
accept appointment as auditor and a 
resolution to appoint them will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern
The Directors have assessed, in the light 
of current and anticipated economic 
conditions, the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.  The principal risks that 
the Group is challenged with have been 
set out on page 25 along with how the 
Directors mitigate these risks in the current 
economic climate. The Group’s business 
activities, financial position, cash flows, 
liquidity position, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in 
the Business Review.  In addition, note 27 
to the Financial Statements includes the 
Group’s policy on capital management, its 
exposure to financial risks and its policies 
and processes to manage those risks.   
The Group maintains on-going forecasts 
that indicate profitability in 2013/14 
and beyond.  Stress test scenarios are 
undertaken, the outcomes of which show 
that the Group has adequate capital 
resources for the foreseeable future even in 
extreme adverse economic conditions.  The 
Group’s business is highly cash generative 
with a low working capital requirement; 
indeed, the forecast cash flows show that 
the Group will remain highly liquid in the 
forthcoming financial year.
After reviewing the Group’s financial 
forecasts including an assessment of 
regulatory and working capital, the 
Directors are confident that the Company 
and the Group have adequate financial 
resources available to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. The going concern basis has 
continued to be adopted in the preparation 
of the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at 
the date of approval of this annual report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company's auditor is unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that 
they ought to have taken as a director, 
in order to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company's auditor is 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
By order of the Board 
Judy Matthews
Company Secretary
10 September 2013
Substantial Shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company has not been notified of any changes in 
shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company, 
other than the directors’ interests which are set out in the table above and the following 
shareholdings:
  Number and % of 
Interested Party Date of notification Ordinary shares
Adam Norris  7 December 2012 13,708,675 (<3.00%)
Stephen Lansdown 24 April 2013 90,000,000 (18.97%)
BlackRock, Inc 25 April 2013 25,552,898 (5.39%) 45 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
"Strong profits, growth 
in EPS, increased 
dividends and excellent 
client service achieved 
in a period of continued 
economic and regulatory 
uncertainty."
Dear Shareholder
2013 was again a year of excellent 
performance for Hargreaves Lansdown. The 
Remuneration Committee was delighted by 
the strong results of the Company delivered 
by the CEO and his executive team. Strong 
profits, growth in EPS, increased dividends 
and excellent client service were achieved 
in a period of continued economic and 
regulatory uncertainty. This has been 
reflected in very strong growth in the share 
price over the period.  The Committee 
felt this warranted improved rewards as 
compared to last year.
Objectives
The Remuneration Committee has 
worked to ensure that our approach to 
remuneration helps to motivate and retain 
our talented employees.  We want our 
people to have a competitive remuneration 
package. Our incentives are aligned to the 
goals of our clients and reward the creation 
of value for our shareholders.
Salaries
The base salaries of the CEO and one other 
Executive Director will remain unchanged 
with effect from 1 July 2013. The base salary 
of the CFO has not changed since 2008, 
before the Company entered the FTSE 100, 
and has now been increased to £350,000 to 
reflect the increased work and responsibility 
of a FTSE 100 Finance Director. In this report, 
unless otherwise specified, base salary 
means the reference base salary of an 
Executive Director before any salary sacrifice 
or exchange into pension or other benefits.
Review of senior executive remuneration
Our remuneration policy has been very 
successful over many years.  Having made 
considerable improvements to our policy 
this time last year, we are proposing only 
minor amendments to that policy going 
forward. 
Summary
We introduced a new Directors Share 
Option Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan 
in the year ended 30 June 2012.  We were 
delighted that the proposals received 
a 94.9% vote in favour at our AGM in 
November 2012.  This year has seen the first 
awards made under the scheme. 
We do not propose to alter our existing 
policy of lower than market base salaries 
and a strong focus on performance 
based pay for this year; however, we 
continually keep under review changes in 
the remuneration landscape and strive to 
both reward our people appropriately and 
ensure investor confidence remains high in 
our remuneration proposals.  
Jonathan Bloomer
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 September 2013  46 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Remuneration Report at a glance
This section of the report has not been 
audited.
What are the principles of the Hargreaves 
Lansdown Remuneration Policy for 
Directors?
• Attract and retain Directors of the calibre 
needed to maintain the Group’s position 
as a market leading financial services 
company.  
• Reward Directors for enhancing 
shareholder value and acting in the long-
term interests of the Company.
• A significant proportion of total 
remuneration should be performance-
related.  
• Pay moderate base salaries but give 
Directors the opportunity to earn 
performance-related bonuses for 
exceptional performance.  
• Long-term retention is achieved through 
participation in long-term incentives and 
direct share ownership.
• Provide a modest defined contribution 
pension scheme with the opportunity for 
staff and directors to contribute more 
through salary and/or bonus sacrifice. 
1 Prior to any entitlement to Performance Bonus arising, executive directors may opt to sacrifice part of their bonus for additional employer pension contributions or other 
benefits. Details of employer pension contributions are set out on page 53.
2 Ian Gorham had a reference base salary of £450,000 for the year. Under the Company's salary sacrifice arrangements, Mr Gorham opted to reduce his salary to £412,875 in 
exchange for additional employer pension contributions and other benefits in kind. Details of employer pension contributions are set out on page 53.
3 Tracey Taylor had a reference base salary of £250,000 for the year. Under the Company's salary sacrifice arrangements, Mrs Taylor opted to reduce her salary to £212,130 in 
exchange for additional employer pension contributions and other benefits in kind. Details of employer pension contributions are set out on page 53.
How will Hargreaves Lansdown’s pay its Directors for 2013/14?
Fixed remuneration
Base Salary
Defined Contribution to 
Pension
Benefits in kind – life 
assurance and PHI
Short-term - annual
Annual Performance Bonus  
• 80% (decreased to 
70% for 2014/15) of 
Performance Bonus paid as 
cash
• 20% (increased to 30% for 
2014/15) of Performance 
Bonus deferred awards 
(shares and/or cash)
• Linked to Group 
financial and individual 
performance.
• Cap on Directors’ 
Performance Bonus pool 
of 5% of Profit Before 
Tax and individual cap on 
Performance Bonus for 
Executive Directors of 5 
times base salary
Longer term – three years
Share Option Plan – 3 years
Performance tests measured 
over 3 years – 
• Aggregate Net New 
Business
• Aggregate Net New Clients, 
and
• Average growth in EPS
Remuneration that will vary with performance
What were the Executive Directors paid for the year ended 30 June 2013?
     Deferred   
   Performance performance 2013 2012
 Salary Benefits bonuses bonuses Total Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ian Gorham 413  - 1,350 150 1,913 1,641
Tracey Taylor 212  - 617 68 897 699
Peter Hargreaves 2 - 250  252 17
Total Remuneration 627 - 2,217 218 3,062 2,356 47 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Elements of the remuneration packages for Directors
Element Objective Policy to 30 June 2013 Policy to 30 June 2014
Base Salary Reflect the scope and 
nature of the role.
Set below market median taking into account market 
data for comparable positions.
No change
Annual 
Performance 
Bonus
Reward the delivery of 
Hargreaves Lansdown’s 
business strategy and each 
executive’s contribution to 
the success of the Group.
Total annual Performance Bonus pool capped at a 
maximum of 5% of Profit Before Tax each year.
Formal clawback mechanism.
No change
No change
Individual cap for Executive Directors of 5 times 
base salary
Deferral 
of annual 
Performance 
Bonuses 
Grow a shareholding in 
Hargreaves Lansdown 
and build alignment with 
shareholders.
Compulsory deferral of 10% (phased increase to 30% 
over three years) of annual Performance Bonus into 
deferred share awards and/or deferred cash awards. 
The rights to exercise deferred awards will vest after 
3 years if the individual remains employed by the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Group.
Unvested deferred awards may be subject to 
clawback.
Compulsory deferral of 20% (phased increase to 
30% for 2014/15) of annual Performance Bonus 
into deferred share awards and/or deferred cash 
awards.
The rights to exercise deferred awards will vest 
after 3 years if the individual remains employed by 
the Hargreaves Lansdown Group.
Unvested deferred awards may be subject to 
clawback.
LTIP - Share 
Option Plan
Reward senior executives 
for growing the long-term 
value of the business.
Align the interests of senior 
executives with those of 
shareholders.
Annual awards of share options that will vest after 3 
years, to the extent that performance tests are met.
Performance measured over a 3 year period.
Maximum award in 2012/13 to be 4 times base 
salary, (but usually substantially lower).
Unvested share options may be subject to clawback.
Annual awards of share options vesting after 3 
years, to the extent that performance tests are 
met. 
Performance measured over a 3 year period. 
Maximum award in 2013/14 to be 4 times base 
salary (but usually substantially lower).
Unvested share options may be subject to 
clawback.
Shareholding 
requirement
Ensures interests of 
management and 
shareholders in the success 
of the Group are closely 
aligned.
200% of base salary.  Directors with less than 6 
years service will be required to hold a minimum of 
100% of base salary.
No change.
Pension To fund pension in 
retirement.
Defined contribution of 4% of base salary per annum 
made to pension fund.
No change.
Benefits To ensure that dependants 
are provided for if a Director 
dies, or can no longer work.
Life assurance cover of three times base salary and 
permanent health insurance.  
No change.
Benefits Benefits under salary 
sacrifice arrangements.
Directors are entitled, in line with staff, to waive part 
of their reference salary for tax efficient benefits such 
as pension contributions, additional holiday, childcare 
vouchers and workplace parking.
No change 48 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Remuneration Report explained
The work of the Remuneration Committee
The Corporate Governance statement 
on pages 34 to 42 contains information 
regarding the responsibilities of the 
Committee and its membership.  
Overview of the actions taken by the 
Remuneration Committee to discharge its 
duties:
During the 12 months to 30 June 2013 the 
Remuneration Committee has carried out 
the following:
• reviewed the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in the 2012 report, including the 
consideration of all feedback received 
from Institutional investors;
• reviewed the documentation provided at 
the Annual General Meeting to support 
the proposals for the new remuneration 
scheme;
• set the performance conditions for the 
Directors Share Option Plan;
• agreed the level of awards to be made to 
each Director for the year ended 30 June 
2012 under the Directors Share Option 
Plan;
• reviewed base salary levels for the 
Directors;
• reviewed and agreed performance 
bonuses for the Directors; and
• reviewed and agreed the Remuneration 
Code Staff disclosure.
 
Who may be asked to attend Remuneration 
Committee meetings?
In determining the Directors’ remuneration 
and the remuneration structure for the 
current financial year, the Committee 
consulted Peter Hargreaves and Ian Gorham 
about its proposals, although no Director 
was involved in discussions regarding his 
own remuneration.
Advisers
Following the introduction of a new 
remuneration scheme for Directors in 
2013, advice in relation to the scheme was 
received in the period between the start of 
the year and the Annual General Meeting 
from:
TLT LLP:  legal advice drafting the rules for 
the scheme and bonus deferral plan.  They 
also provided employment law advice to 
the Group.
Base Salary 
Base salaries are normally reviewed 
annually and any changes are effective 
from 1 July each year.  Historically Executive 
Directors’ base salaries have been set well 
below the market median.
In reviewing base salaries the 
Remuneration Committee takes into 
account salaries elsewhere across 
the Group, relevant market data and 
information on remuneration practice in 
a comparator group of companies in the 
financial sector.
An increase was made to the base salary 
of Tracey Taylor; however no increases 
were made to the base salaries of the other 
Executive Directors as at 1 July 2013: 
Base Salaries 2013/14 
Ian Gorham £450,000
Tracey Taylor £350,000
Peter Hargreaves £2,000
As mentioned previously, the base salary 
figures in the above table are the reference 
base salaries of the Executive Director 
before any salary sacrifice or exchange into 
pension or other benefits.
Short-term incentives
Annual Performance Bonus 
Directors may be paid a discretionary 
Performance Bonus for each financial year 
of the Company.   
Performance Bonuses are determined 
based on performance in the year 
assessed against a number of key areas of 
performance.
Annual Performance Bonuses are non-
pensionable. 
Performance Bonuses will be materially 
affected if either the Group or an individual 
falls short of performance expectations.  No 
Performance Bonus will be paid should the 
Committee consider it inappropriate.
Annual Performance Bonuses for 2012/13
2013 was again a year of excellent 
performance for Hargreaves Lansdown. The 
Remuneration Committee was delighted 
by the strong results of the Company 
delivered by the CEO and his executive 
team. The strong profits, growth in EPS, 
increased dividends and excellent client 
service achieved in a period of continued 
economic and regulatory uncertainty were 
very pleasing. This has been reflected in very 
strong growth in the share price over the 
period.  The Committee felt this warranted 
improved rewards as compared to last year. 
The Committee believes that any incentive 
compensation awarded should be 
tied to the interests of the Company’s 
shareholders.  The annual performance 
bonus pool available for Directors is 
based on a percentage of profit before tax. 
This percentage is not fixed in advance 
and as adopted at the Annual General 
Meeting in November 2012, the total 
annual performance bonus pool is capped 
at a maximum of 5% of Profit Before Tax 
for the year. The size of the bonus pool 
is determined having taken account of 
the results of the Company, particularly 
assessed against growth in Earnings Per 
Share (EPS). Due regard is also taken of 
unusual rises or falls in the markets which 
would artificially raise or lower the revenue 
and hence the profit of the Company in any 
given year. This year the bonus pool was set 
at 3.53% of Profit Before Tax. The Committee 
individually considers each Director’s 
performance against his or her personal 
objectives, thus ensuring that payment is 
proposed only where performance merits an 
award.   Given these controls, the success 
Criteria for Annual Performance Bonus:
Group performance
• Success in gathering profitable client 
assets
• Improving and maintaining long-term 
profitability
• Robustness, sustainability and 
scalability of operations
• Risk management
• Compliance
• Client satisfaction
Personal performance
• Setting direction
• Executing new initiatives
• Improving and protecting the client 
base
• Cost control
• Process improvement
• At least 3 role-specific objectives 49 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
of the Company in motivating and retaining 
Directors and historic restraint in bonus 
payments, the Committee believes retaining 
an appropriate level of discretion is in the 
best interests of the Company.   
Performance Bonus awards may, at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
be paid as cash and/or as additional 
employer pension contributions. The total 
Performance Bonuses awarded to Directors, 
as a percentage of base salary was 305% for 
the year (2012: 217%).
Over the previous three years, bonuses 
for Directors have ranged from nil to 463% 
of base salary, and from £nil to a value of 
£1,500,000. 
The numbers shown exclude Peter 
Hargreaves. He is a founder of Hargreaves 
Lansdown and has agreed a low 
remuneration package with the Company 
which reflects his existing shareholding. His 
base salary of £2,000 for 2012/13 distorts 
the percentage.  
The percentage of Profit Before Tax awarded 
as annual Bonuses in recent years is shown 
below.
Aggregate Bonuses awarded to Directors 
as a percentage of Profit Before Tax (PBT) 
Year % of PBT
2013 3.53%
2012 3.75%
2011 3.74%
2010 1.59%
Individual cap on annual performance 
bonus from 2013/14
As disclosed in previous years, the 
Committee has not considered it 
appropriate to set a formal upper limit on 
individual discretionary awards, provided 
that the cumulative of all awards falls 
within the total annual performance bonus 
pool.  However, in the light of feedback 
from shareholders, the Committee has 
decided that the annual performance bonus 
for Executive Directors will be capped at a 
maximum of five times base salary.  This 
cap will not apply to Peter Hargreaves due 
to the nominal value of his base salary, 
although the value of his bonus in any year 
will not exceed that of the other executive 
directors. 
Performance graphs 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) i.e. capital growth and dividends paid, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index during the period since flotation.  
As the Company was not listed on a stock exchange prior to May 2007, a comparison 
of TSR prior to 15 May 2007 has not been possible due to the absence of a quoted 
share price.  
The following graph shows the Company’s performance measured using earnings 
per share (EPS) over the past ten years.
This graph shows the 
value of £100 invested in 
Hargreaves  Lansdown 
plc shares on 15 May 
2007 (admission to the 
Official List )  compared 
to £100 invested in 
the FTSE 350 Financial 
Services Sector.
Total Shareholder Return
Growth in EPS
0
50
100
150
200
250
May 07 June 07 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13
2003
35
30
25
EPS (pence)
20
15
10
5
0
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
300
350
450
400
500
0
50
100
150
200
250
May 07 June 07 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13
2003
35
30
25
EPS (pence)
20
15
10
5
0
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
300
350
450
400
500
 HL TSR 
 FTSE 350 Financial Services Index
 HL EPS 
 FTSE 350 General Financial 
Financial year
Date
£
Deferral of annual Performance Bonuses 
From this year onwards, we have simplified 
the way in which annual Performance 
Bonuses are deferred.  In future 30% of 
all Performance Bonuses will be waived in 
favour of deferred awards.  
The deferred awards will ordinarily 
be over shares on which dividends 
(or dividend equivalents) are earned. 
However, providing the Director satisfies 
the minimum shareholding target with 
reference to base salary, the option is given 
for deferred awards to be in shares on 
which dividends (or dividend equivalents) 
are earned, in cash on which no interest 
will be earned, or a mixture of shares 
and cash.  The right to exercise deferred 
awards will vest after three years provided 
the individual remains employed by the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Group.  50 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
As agreed at the Annual General Meeting 
in November 2012, we are phasing in the 
deferral for existing employees.  For the 
year ended 30 June 2013, 10% of any annual 
Performance Bonus has been waived in 
favour of deferred awards.  For the year 
ending 30 June 2014, 20% of any annual 
Performance Bonus will be deferred.  With 
effect from the year ending 30 June 2015 
and subsequent years, 30% of any annual 
Performance Bonus will be deferred. 
Longer Term incentives
Share Option Plan 
Following approval at our AGM, we have 
introduced a new Share Option Plan under 
which regular grants will be made each 
year. Share Options will be granted at the 
market value at the time of grant.  
The extent to which a number of performance 
tests are met over a period of three years will 
determine the proportion of the new share 
options that can be exercised by Directors.  
The size of awards will be determined 
by reference to the base salary of the 
Executive Director at the time that the 
award is made and the maximum award 
that may be made for any one financial year 
is four times base salary. The Committee 
anticipates that the average award will be 
in the region of 2 – 2.5 times base salary.
For awards to be made in 2013/14 there will 
be three performance tests.  One third of 
each set of option grants will depend on 
performance against each measure.  The 
three performance tests will be:
Share Option grants
Performance measured over 3 years
• Aggregate Net New Business
• Aggregate Net New Clients
• Average  Earnings per share (EPS) over 
period
Performance scale
• 25% vesting at threshold
• 100% vesting at maximum
• Straight line scale between performance 
and maximum
The Remuneration Committee will set the 
performance levels required for threshold 
and maximum vesting before making each 
grant of share options. 
For those elements of the award that 
depend on Net New Business and Net 
New Clients, we are unable to disclose 
the tests as we regard the information as 
commercially sensitive.  However, after the 
end of the three year performance period 
the Remuneration Committee commits to 
disclose the performance tests it has set and 
the extent to which they were met.
Awards made in 2012/13
The Remuneration Committee made awards 
under the Directors Share Option Plan on 
31 December 2012.  Each Director received 
an award of 60,000 share options (the face 
value of these awards being 92% of base 
salary for Ian Gorham and 165% of base 
salary for Tracey Taylor).  These awards are 
well within the maximum levels permitted 
by the rules of the Plan. Performance 
conditions for the awards made under the 
Plan for the year ended 30 June 2012 were 
as follows, with the performance period 
commencing 1 July 2012:
For the initial operation of the Plan, the 
Performance Conditions applying to an 
Option were split into three parts. 1/3rd of 
the shares subject to the Option will vest 
by reference to an Earnings per Share (EPS) 
target, 1/3rd will vest by reference to a target 
based on the group's net new business 
inflows, and the remaining 1/3rd will vest by 
reference to the group's net new clients over 
the performance period.  Each target will 
have a minimum and maximum target set 
by the Committee. 25% of the second part 
of the Option will vest if the minimum target 
is met rising to vesting in full of the second 
part of the Option if the maximum target is 
met or exceeded. For performance between 
the minimum and maximum targets, the 
vesting of the second part of the Option will 
be pro-rated on a straight line basis between 
25% and 100%.
The precise targets for net new business 
inflows and net new clients are commercially 
sensitive and cannot be disclosed in full.  
For earnings per share, the targets are such 
that if the average undiluted basic EPS 
for each financial year in the Performance 
Period does not meet a minimum target of 
31.0p, the first part of the Option will not 
vest.  If the average EPS equals or exceeds a 
maximum target of 35.3p, the first part of the 
Option will vest in full. For EPS performance 
between the minimum and maximum 
targets, the vesting of the first part of the 
Option will be pro-rated on a straight line 
basis between 25% and 100%.
The Committee will disclose the net new 
business inflows target and the net new 
clients target (and performance against 
those targets) in the first remuneration 
report of the Company following the end of 
the Performance Period.
Clawback from 2012/13
We have introduced formal clawback 
provisions on the deferred element of 
annual Performance Bonuses and unvested 
awards made under the new Share Option 
Plan from this year.  In the event that any 
of the following arise (in the opinion of the 
Remuneration Committee):
• that there is later found to be a 
material mis-statement of the 
financial performance on which annual 
Performance Bonuses were based;
• a serious regulatory problem;
• that the Director, or an employee for 
which he is responsible, does or allows to 
be done, something which has a serious 
detrimental effect on the reputation of the 
Company;
• that the Director has not appropriately 
identified serious risks relevant to their 
business areas, and/or implemented 
appropriate controls for identified 
serious risks then the deferred awards, 
either bonus or unvested options, 
may be reduced in whole or in part at 
the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Shareholding requirements 
Directors are required to accumulate 
minimum personal holdings in Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc shares.  The Committee 
believes that the shareholding requirement 
aids retention and ensures that the interests 
of management and shareholders in the 
success of the Group are closely aligned.
Directors are required to hold a minimum 
shareholding in Hargreaves Lansdown of 
200% of base salary.  Directors with less 
than six years’ service will be required to 
hold a minimum of 100% of base salary.  
Newly appointed Directors will be given 
up to three years to comply with this 
requirement. 51 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Executive Directors’ current shareholdings as a percentage of base salary 
(1) Based on share price as at 30 June 2012 of 529p 
(2) Based on share price as at 28 June 2013 of 888p
 2013
2
 2012
1
Ian Gorham 684%  0%
Tracey Taylor >1000%  >1000%
Peter Hargreaves >1000% >1000%
SAYE and SIP
The Directors are entitled to participate in 
the SAYE share option scheme and Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) on the same terms as 
all other employees.  
Pension arrangements
No Directors or staff participate in a 
defined benefit pension scheme.  The 
Group operates its own Group Self Invested 
Personal Pension (the “GSIPP”).  The GSIPP 
is non-contributory and allows staff to take 
more control of their pension planning.  The 
Company contributes 4% of base salary to 
the scheme which applies to Directors and 
staff. Employees wishing to make personal 
contributions to the GSIPP can do so via 
‘salary exchange’ or ‘bonus waiver’ ensuring 
that they benefit from the maximum, 
immediate relief from income tax and 
National Insurance. Staff and Directors may 
opt out of the scheme should they wish.  
Other than salary, no other element of 
remuneration is pensionable.
Benefits
All staff and Directors are entitled to life 
assurance cover of three times their base 
salary and, subject to the rules of the 
scheme, permanent health insurance.  The 
Directors may also receive certain limited 
benefits-in-kind.
Executive Directors’ contracts 
The Company’s policy is that Executive 
Directors should have contracts with an 
indefinite term and a maximum of one 
year’s notice.  Accordingly, all Executive 
Directors currently have contracts which are 
subject to one year’s notice by either party.  
The Company may at any time exercise its 
discretion to pay Executive Directors in lieu 
of the notice period.  At 30 June 2013, the 
maximum contractual amount which may 
be payable to the Executive Directors under 
the payment in lieu of notice clauses is 
£802,000. 
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors
Non-executive directors’ contracts 
The Company’s policy is that non-executive Directors should have a fixed term contract 
with a three month notice period.  Details of the non-executive Directors contracts for 
services are as follows:
1 Michael Evans’ contract for the position of non-executive Chairman took effect from 1 December 2009  
2  Jonathan Bloomer’s three year contract was renewed for a further three years from 18 September 2012
3 Chris Barling’s initial contract was renewed for a further three years on 26 August 2013
The details of the Executive Directors’ 
contracts are summarised in the table:
Name of director Contract date Notice period
I Gorham 2 September 2010 12 months
P Hargreaves 5 April 2007 12 months
T Taylor 1 November 2008 12 months
Executive Directors’ contracts of service 
which include details of remuneration will 
be available for inspection at the Annual 
General Meeting.
Appointment as a non-executive Director of 
another company
Hargreaves Lansdown recognises that 
its Executive Directors may be invited to 
become non-executive directors of other 
companies. Such non-executive duties 
can broaden experience and knowledge 
which can benefit the Company. Subject to 
approval by the Board, Executive Directors 
are allowed to accept non-executive 
appointments and retain the fees received, 
provided that these appointments are not 
likely to lead to conflicts of interest.  
Peter Hargreaves currently receives fees of 
£45,000 p.a. in respect of his duties as a 
non-executive of ITM Power plc. 
How we fund share awards
The Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is well 
funded and holds sufficient market 
purchased shares to satisfy all share 
awards due to mature prior to September 
2015.  
A further 2,866,225 share options have 
been granted to staff and Directors which 
mature after this date and which are not 
hedged by shares held by the EBT. It is 
currently intended that these options and 
any granted under subsequent share-
based awards, will be met by the issue of 
new shares within the limits agreed by 
shareholders and by shares purchased 
in the market by the EBT. The limits 
agreed with shareholders comply with the 
Association of British Insurers’ guidelines 
restricting dilution from employee 
share plans. The overall limits under the 
guidelines are that no more than 10% of a 
Group’s issued share capital may be used 
in any 10-year period. Within the 10% limit, 
up to 5% may be used for discretionary 
share plans. The Committee will review 
the hedging and dilution position of the 
Company prior to making grants of new 
share awards. Potential dilution as at 30 
June 2013 was 0.6043%.
Name Commencement Date:  Notice Period Notes
Michael Evans 1 September 2006 3 months 1 
Jonathan Bloomer 18 September 2006 3 months 2
Chris Barling 26 August 2010 3 months 3
Dharmash Mistry 3 October 2011 3 months 
Stephen Robertson 3 October 2011 3 months  52 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Non-executive director fees
All non-executive directors have specific 
terms of engagement, which are available 
for inspection, and their remuneration is 
determined by the Board within limits set 
by the Articles of Association and based on 
independent surveys of fees paid to non-
executive directors of similar companies.  
The fees include a fee for membership 
of the various committees. Details of the 
membership of the committees are given in 
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 
34 to 42.  Where a non-Executive Director 
chairs a committee, an additional fee is 
payable.  
Non-executive directors cannot participate 
in any of the Company’s share option 
schemes and are not eligible to join the 
Company’s pension scheme.
Appointments are for a fixed term of three 
years from the commencement date unless 
terminated by either party on three months’ 
written notice or by the Company at any 
time with immediate effect on payment in 
lieu of notice.
Non-executive directors are entitled to 
reimbursement of all reasonable and 
properly documented travel, hotel and 
other incidental expenses incurred in 
the performance of their duties and the 
Company maintains appropriate directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance for their 
benefit.
Non-executive director fees paid in the year 
(1) Fees were increased to £152,500 in the year
(2) Fees were increased to £70,000 in the year
Fees for 2012/13 
Michael Evans (Chairman)   £152,500
 1
Jonathan Bloomer   £66,767
2
Stephen Lansdown   £14,454
Chris Barling   £42,500
Dharmash Mistry   £42,500
Stephen Robertson   £42,500 53 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
AUDITED INFORMATION
The following information is provided in respect of directors who served during the year ended 30 June 2013:
Aggregate Executive Directors’ remuneration 
The total amounts for Executive Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Executive Directors’ pension contributions 
Two directors were members of a money purchase scheme during 2013 (2012: 2).  Contributions paid by the Company were:
Directors’ emoluments 
     2013 2012
     £’000 £’000
Emoluments     3,421 2,638
Pension contributions     94 112
Gains on exercise of share options     1,438 107
Amounts received under long-term incentive schemes     7,829 -
     12,782 2,857
     2013 2012
     £ £
Ian Gorham     48,726 74,380
Tracey Taylor     45,611 38,119
     94,337 112,499
    Cash Deferred
 Fees/ Benefits performance performance 2013 2012
 Basic salary in kind bonuses bonuses Total Total
Name of director £ £ £ £ £ £
Current Executive directors      
Ian Gorham  412,875 - 1,350,238 149,762 1,912,875 1,640,895
Tracey Taylor  212,130 138 616,500 68,500 897,268 698,867
Peter Hargreaves 2,250 - 250,000 - 252,250 16,574
 627,255 138 2,216,738 218,262 3,062,393 2,356,335
Non- Executive directors      
Michael Evans 152,500 - - - 152,500 91,458
Jonathan Bloomer 66,767 - - - 66,767 55,000
Chris Barling 42,500 - - - 42,500 41,458
Dharmash Mistry  42,500 - - - 42,500 31,875
Stephen Robertson  42,500 - - - 42,500 31,875
 346,767 - - - 346,767 251,667
Former Non-Executive directors      
Stephen Lansdown 11,954 - - - 11,954 30,000
 11,954 - - - 11,954 30,000
Aggregate emoluments 985,976 138 2,216,738 218,262 3,421,114 2,638,002 54 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
The Executive Directors who served during the year had interests in options to acquire shares or interests in jointly owned shares in 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc as follows:
(1) In respect of the JSOP awards, price represents the amount the director received in respect of their interest in the jointly owned share.
Options granted under the share option and share incentive schemes prior to 30 June 2012 were not subject to performance criteria.  
The closing market price of the ordinary 0.4 pence shares at 30 June 2012 was £8.88 and the range during the year to 30 June 2013 was 
£5.37 to £10.34.
Compliance Statement
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Statutory Instrument 2008/410 The Large and Medium 
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and to meet the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority’s Listing Rules.  
The Regulations require our external auditor to report to shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, the relevant parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.   The audited 
information is clearly shown within the report.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Approval
This report in its entirety has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Jonathan Bloomer
Chairman of the Committee
         Price at  Date from
 Type of At 1 July    At 30 June Exercise date of Expiration which
Name of director scheme 2012 Exercised Granted Lapsed 2013 Price exercise
1 
Date exercisable
I Gorham  Exec Scheme 10,569 10,569 - - - £2.84 £8.59 Oct 2019 Oct 2012
 Exec Scheme 239,431 239,431 - - - £2.84 £8.59 Oct 2019 Oct 2012
 Exec Scheme 500,000 - - - 500,000 £4.09 - Sept 2020 Sept 2013
 Exec Scheme 800,000 - - - 800,000 £4.58 - Oct 2020 Oct 2013
 JSOP 750,000 750,000 - - - - £4.47 Dec 2019 Dec 2012
 SAYE 4,109  - - 4,109 £3.65 - Mar 2022 Mar 2017
 2012 LTIP award - - 60,000 - 60,000 £6.87 - Dec 2018 Jun 2015
T Taylor Exec Scheme 15,355 - - - 15,355 £1.95 - Mar 2019 Mar 2014
 SAYE 2,373 - - - 2,373 £1.75 - Mar 2014 Oct 2013
 JSOP 1,000,000 1,000,000 - - - - £4.47 Dec 2019 Dec 2012
 SAYE 3,090 - - - 3,090 £3.65 - Mar 2022 Mar 2017
 2012 LTIP award - - 60,000 - 60,000 £6.87 - Dec 2018 Jun 2015 55 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are 
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 
and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for 
that period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the management report, which is incorporated into the 
directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board 
Ian Gorham  Tracey Taylor
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer  
10 September 2013 10 September 2013
 
 
 
   
Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement 56 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
We have audited the financial statements 
of Hargreaves Lansdown plc for the year 
ended 30 June 2013 which comprise of 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and Company 
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and 
Company Cash Flow Statements, the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 
to 27.  The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company financial statements, as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and 
auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors 
are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland).  Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error.  This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of 
the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 
2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
• the consolidated financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the consolidated financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
• we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review:
• the directors’ statement, contained within 
the Directors’ Report, in relation to going 
concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on directors’ 
remuneration.
Simon Cleveland (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Bristol, UK
10 September 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc 57 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
2013 Financial Statements 58 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
    Year ended Y e ar ended         
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
 Note   £’000 £’000
Revenue 4   292,403 238,741
Total operating income    292,403 238,741
Administrative expenses    (100,475) (83,355)
FSCS costs *    532 (4,774)
Operating profit    192,460 150,612
Investment revenue 8   2,879 2,229
Other (losses)    (155) (2)
Profit before tax    195,184 152,839
Tax 9   (46,195) (39,520)
Profit for the financial year 6   148,989 113,319
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the Company    148,391 112,960
Non-controlling interest    598 359
    148,989 113,319
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 11   31.7 24.2
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 11   31.4 24.1
    
All income, profits and earnings are in respect of continuing operations.
* FSCS costs are those relating to the levies issued under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. For the year ended 30 June 2013 a refund was received relating to 
payments made in earlier years. Prior to the year ended 30 June 2012 these costs were included within administrative expenses.
       Group    Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Y e ar ended         
  30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the financial year  148,989 113,319 144,687 109,378
Other comprehensive income for the period:-    
Items that may be classified subsequently to profit or loss:
(Decrease)/Increase in fair value of available-for-sale investments  (160) 30 - 30
Total comprehensive income for the financial year  148,829 113,349 144,687 109,408
Attributable to:-    
Equity holders of the Company  148,231 112,990 144,687 109,408
Non-controlling interest  598 359 - -
  148,829 113,349 144,687 109,408
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income 59 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
 Share  Share Investment Capital Shares held    Non-
 capital  premium  revaluation redemption by EBT EBT Retained  controlling Total
  account reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity
 £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
At 1 July 2011  1,897 8  130  12  (16,529)  10,294  134,989  130,801  66  130,867
Profit for the period  -  -  -  -  -  -  112,960  112,960  359  113,319
Other comprehensive income:-          
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets -  -  30  -  -  -  -  30 - 30
Employee Benefit Trust:-          
Shares sold in the year  -  -  -  -  2,500  -  -  2,500  -  2,500
EBT share sale net of tax  -  -  -  -  -  (280)  -  (280)  -  (280)
Employee share option scheme:-          
Share-based payments expense  -  -  -  -  -  -  2,136  2,136  -  2,136
Current tax effect of share based 
payments  -  -  -  -  -  -  4,636  4,636  -  4,636
Deferred tax effect of share-based 
payments  -  -  -  -  -  -  (5,617)  (5,617)  -  (5,617)
Dividend paid  -  -  -  -  -  -  (90,172)  (90,172)  -  (90,172)
At 30 June 2012  1,897  8  160  12  (14,029)  10,014  158,932  156,994  425  157,419
Profit for the period  -  -  -  -  -  -  148,391  148,391  598  148,989
Other comprehensive income:-          
Net fair value gains on 
available-for-sale assets  -  -  (160)  -  -  -  -  (160)  -  (160)
Employee Benefit Trust:-          
Shares sold in the year  -  -  -  -  4,343  -  -  4,343  -  4,343
Shares acquired in the year  -  -  -  -  (11,771)  -  -  (11,771)  -  (11,771)
EBT share sale net of tax  -  -  -  -  -  3,634  -  3,634  -  3,634
Employee share option scheme:-          
Share-based payments expense  -  -  -  -  -  -  2,386  2,386  -  2,386
Current tax effect of share based 
payments  -   -  -  -  -  -  482  482  -  482
Deferred tax effect of share-based 
payments  -  -  -  -  -  -  3,546  3,546  -  3,546
Dividend paid  -  -  -  -  -  -  (111,223)  (111,223)  (500)  (111,723)
At 30 June 2013  1,897  8  -  12  (21,457)  13,648  202,514  196,622  523  197,145
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Group, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company's own shares. 
The Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (“the EBT”) reserve represents the cost of shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc purchased in the market and held by the Hargreaves 
Lansdown plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
The EBT reserve represents the cumulative gain on disposal of investments held by the Hargreaves Lansdown EBT.  The reserve is not distributable by the Company as the assets 
and liabilities of the EBT are subject to management by the Trustees in accordance with the EBT trust deed.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein.  Non-controlling interests consist of the 
minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interest’s change in 
equity since that date.  The non-controlling interest represents a 25% shareholding in Library Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Attributable to the owners of the Company 60 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
   Share Investment Capital
 Share premium revaluation redemption Retained 
 capital account reserve reserve earnings Total
 £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
At 1 July 2011 1,897 8 147 12 69,262 71,326
Profit for the period - - - - 109,378 109,378
Other comprehensive income:-      
Net fair value gains on available-for-sale assets - - 30 - - 30
Dividend paid - - - - (90,172) (90,172)
At 30 June 2012 1,897 8 177 12 88,468 90,562
Profit for the period - - - - 144,687 144,687
Other comprehensive income:-      
Net fair value gains on available-for-sale assets - - (177) - - (177)
Dividend paid - - - - (111,223) (111,223)
At 30 June 2013 1,897 8 - 12 121,931 123,848
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The investment revaluation reserve represents the change in fair value of available-for-sale investments held by the Group, net of deferred tax.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of the Company's own shares.
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 61 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
       Group    Company
  At 30 June At 30 June At 30 June At 30 Ju ne         
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS     
Non-current assets     
Goodwill 12 1,333 1,333 - -
Other intangible assets 13 686 168 - -
Property, plant and equipment 14 9,737 5,792 - -
Investments 16 - - 2,152 2,152
Deferred tax assets 18 6,988 2,939 26 31
  18,744 10,232 2,178 2,183
Current assets     
Trade and other receivables 17 264,403 142,606 1,426 104
Cash and cash equivalents 17 197,566 157,719 120,359 105,196
Investments 16 613 2,228 - 1,657
Current tax assets  26 17 - -
  462,608 302,570 121,785 106,957
Total assets  481,352 312,802 123,963 109,140
LIABILITIES     
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables  19 259,945 136,952 105 18,452
Current tax liabilities  23,858 18,154 10 126
  283,803 155,106 115 18,578
Net current assets  178,805 147,464 121,670 88,379
Non-current liabilities     
Provisions 20 404 277 - -
  404 277 - -
Total liabilities  284,207 155,383 115 18,578
Net assets  197,145 157,419 123,848 90,562
EQUITY     
Share capital 21 1,897 1,897 1,897 1,897
Share premium account  8 8 8 8
Investment revaluation reserve  - 160 - 177
Capital redemption reserve  12 12 12 12
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust reserve  (21,457) (14,029) - -
EBT reserve  13,648 10,014 - -
Retained earnings  202,514 158,932 121,931 88,468
Total equity, attributable to equity shareholders of the parent           196,622 156,994 123,848 90,562
Non-controlling interest  523 425 - -
Total equity  197,145 157,419 123,848 90,562
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
The financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc, registered number 02122142, were approved by the Board of directors and 
authorised for issue on 10 September 2013.
Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor  
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 62 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
       Group    Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Y e ar ended         
  30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities, after tax 22 157,363 122,549 (19,824) 18,570
Investing activities
Interest received  2,769 2,158 790 388
Dividends received from investments  110 71 144,100 109,000
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments  1,434 42 1,320 -
Proceeds on disposal of plant and equipment  - 2 - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (5,301) (998) - -
Purchase of intangible fixed assets  (915) (104) - -
Purchase of available-for-sale investments  (97) - - -
Net cash (used)/from investing activities  (2,000) 1,171 146,210 109,388
Financing activities     
Purchase of own shares in EBT  (11,771) - - -
Proceeds on sale of own shares in EBT  7,978 2,220 - -
Dividends paid  (111,723) (90,172) (111,223) (90,172)
Net cash used in financing activities  (115,516) (87,952) (111,223) (90,172)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  39,847 35,768 15,163 37,786
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  157,719 121,951 105,196 67,410
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  197,566 157,719 120,359 105,196
Statement of Cash Flows 63 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. General information
Hargreaves Lansdown plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 whose 
shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is One College Square South, Anchor Road, 
Bristol BS1 5HL, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Group operates. 
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and interpretations issued by the International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB (together “IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. The Company's financial 
statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement is 
presented for the Company.  The Company’s profit after tax for the year was £144,686,825 (2012: £109,378,295).
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have had no impact on these 
financial statements.
- Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of items of other comprehensive income”
The Group has applied the amendments to IAS 1. The amendment increases the required level of disclosure within the statement of 
comprehensive income. The impact of this amendment has been to analyse items within the statement of comprehensive income between 
items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss in 
accordance with the respective IFRS standard to which the item relates. The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence 
the presentation of items of comprehensive income have been restated to reflect the change.
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have had no impact on these 
financial statements.
- Amendments to IAS 19 “Employee benefits”
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in 
these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
- Amendments to IAS 12 “Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets”
- Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments Disclosures”
- IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” 
- IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements”
- IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements”
- IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities”
- IAS 27 “Separate financial statements”
- IAS 28 “Investments in associates and joint ventures”
- IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement”
- Improvements 2011 – “Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2009-2011 Cycle”
Other than to expand certain disclosures within the financial statements, the directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards 
and interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The 
principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 64 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
2. Significant accounting policies
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) made up to 30 June 2013.  Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group.  All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group and Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as discussed on page 44.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” are recognised at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. 
Any gains or losses on sale of the Company’s own shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) are credited 
directly to the EBT reserve and are treated as undistributable profits.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell.  Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset 
(or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be 
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate, or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially 
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is 
recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not 
subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of 
the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS on 1 July 2005 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 30 June 1997 has not been 
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided 
in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Revenue is primarily classified as either recurring, 
transactional or other. Recurring revenue principally comprises the revenue streams of renewal income, management fees and interest 
income on client money, while transactional revenue principally comprises initial commission on stockbroking transactions. Revenue is 
recognised as follows:  65 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Recurring
Renewal income is earned from fund management groups and is recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of 
assets under the administration, or agency, of the Group.  Management fees are paid by clients and are recognised on an accruals basis 
calculated according to the level of certain assets where fees apply. The interest income on client money balances is the net interest 
margin earned by the Group and is accrued on a time basis, according to the client money balances under administration and by reference 
to the effective interest rate applicable.
Transactional
The Group’s stockbroking and unit trust management subsidiaries earn commission on securities transactions entered into on behalf 
of clients. The commission earned is recorded in the accounts on the date of the transaction, as this is the date on which the service is 
provided to the client and the Group becomes entitled to the income.
The Group also earns initial commission from third party providers on the set up of group pension schemes. Initial commissions are 
deemed to be earned at the policy inception date on those policies where there are only negligible ongoing services. Where ongoing 
services are provided, an appropriate proportion of the income is deferred over the relevant period. Where such commission is received 
on an indemnity basis, a provision is made for clawbacks, if any, which would be due if the policy lapses during the indemnity period.
Other
Principally represents the amount of fees receivable from the provision of funds library services, and is recognised on an accruals basis. 
Investment revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend 
income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before investment revenue and finance costs. 
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group operates a group self-invested personal pension plan for staff.  Payments to the defined contribution retirement benefit 
scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Bonuses payable to employees
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for staff bonuses where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice.  
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will 
be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Provisions are recognised for future committed property lease payments when the Group receives no benefit from the property through 
continuing usage and future receipts from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the Group’s future committed payments.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.  The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for 
the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current 
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 66 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
2. Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in 
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority 
and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that 
were unvested at 1 July 2005.  
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of 
the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Fair value is measured by use of the 
Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of 
non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.  Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed 
on a stock exchange and therefore, in the absence of a readily available market price for the shares, the share price was based on the 
market value agreed with HM Revenue & Customs and share price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility applying to a 
comparable group of listed companies.  
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.  Depreciation is provided, 
where material, on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each 
asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows:
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
Leasehold property tenants’ fixtures   over the life of the lease
IT, office equipment and other fixtures over 3 to 10 years
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.  Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also 
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill
Other intangible assets comprise computer software and the Group’s key operating system which are stated at cost less amortisation 
and any recognised impairment loss.  Amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill at rates 
calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its 
estimated useful life as follows:
Computer software:  over 3 to 4 years
The carrying values of computer software are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.  The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between 
the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Internally generated assets
IT development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset, which delivers benefits at least  67 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
as great as the amount capitalised. Development work has been undertaken in-house to enhance the key operating systems. Whereas 
previously this cost was not material and was recognised as an expense, the amounts are now more material and hence the costs are 
being capitalised as an intangible asset and subsequently depreciated over the estimated useful life of the system. Where such costs 
relate to an asset that is not yet available for use by the business, they have been separately classified as assets under construction and 
have not been amortised, but instead been reviewed for impairment.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.  An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is 
tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to 
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are declared and 
paid, or if earlier, in the accounting period when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.  
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are 
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain 
balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as debtors. Market debtors and creditors are 
presented net where there is a legal right of offset.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose 
terms require delivery of the investment within the time-frame established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, 
including transaction costs.
The Group’s available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation 
gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 59, 
until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to 
a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that cost 
is not materially different to fair value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment. 
Investments which are designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted market price 
of the listed investment, with any gain or loss reported within the income statement.  An investment is classified in this category if it is 
held principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.  Included within cash balances are 
amounts held on client settlement accounts as shown in note 17.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at fair value which is equivalent to amortised cost.  In accordance with market practice, certain balances 
with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as creditors. Market debtors and creditors are 
presented net where there is a legal right of offset. 68 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. Key sources of judgements and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount 
of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, 
which are based on management’s best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial statements, deviate from actual 
circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change. 
The areas where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements, are minimal and discussed below.
Share-based payments
In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes 
assumptions about the future events and market conditions.  In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares 
that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.  The fair value is determined using a valuation model which is dependent on future 
estimates, including the Group’s future dividend policy, the timing with which the options will be exercised and the future volatility in the 
price of the Group’s shares.  Different assumptions about these factors to those made by the Group could materially affect the reported 
value of share-based payments.
4. Revenue
Revenue represents commission receivable from financial services provided to clients, interest income on settlement accounts and 
management fees charged to clients.  It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax.  An analysis of the 
Group’s revenue is as follows:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Revenue from services:-  
Recurring income    233,008 192,609
Transactional income    53,371 42,479
Other income    6,024 3,653
Total operating income    292,403 238,741
Investment revenues (Note 8)    2,879 2,229
Total revenue    295,282 240,970
  
Recurring income principally comprises renewal income, management fees and interest income on client money. Transactional income 
principally comprises commission earned from stockbroking transactions. Other income principally represents the amount of fees 
receivable from the provision of funds library services. The policies adopted for the recognition of each significant revenue stream are set 
out in note 2 above.
5. Segment information
The Group is organised into three business segments, namely the Vantage Division, the Discretionary Division and the Third Party/Other 
Services Division. This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided with financial information. The CODM has been identified as the Board of Executive 
Directors.
The ‘Vantage’ division represents all activities relating to the Vantage service, our direct to private investor platform. 
The ‘Discretionary/Managed’ division is focused on the provision of managed services such as our Portfolio Management Service (PMS) 
and range of Multi-Manager funds.   69 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
5. Segment information (continued)
The ‘Third Party/Other Services’ division includes activities relating to the broking of third party investments and pensions, certificated 
share dealing and other niche services such as currency, CFD’s and spread betting.  In this division, clients’ investments are not 
administered within the Group.
The ‘Group’ segment contains items that are shared by the Group as a whole and cannot be reasonably allocated to other operating 
segments.
Segment expenses are those that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can 
reasonably be allocated to the segment. Gains or losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments, investment income, interest 
payable and tax are not allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared 
items.  Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.  At 30 June 2013 and 2012, these 
comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, tax-related and other assets or liabilities.  
Consolidation adjustments relate to the elimination of inter-segment revenues, balances and investments in group subsidiaries required 
on consolidation.
  Discretionary/ Third Party/  Consolidation
 Vantage Managed Other Services Group Adjustment Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 June 2013     
Revenue from external customers 227,204 34,140 31,059 - - 292,403
Inter-segment revenue - 4,889 - - (4,889) -
Total segment revenue 227,204 39,029 31,059 - (4,886) 292,403
Depreciation and amortisation 1,243 183 289 - - 1,715
Investment revenue - - - 2,879 - 2,879
Other losses - - - (155) - (155)
Reportable segment profit before tax 150,230 23,154 19,135 2,665 - 195,184
Reportable segment assets 257,234 20,124 18,072 203,747 (17,825) 481,352
Reportable segment liabilities (219,475) (17,473) (14,360) (48,572) 15,673 (284,207)
Net segment assets 37,759 2,651 3,712 155,175 (2,152) 197,145
      
Year ended 30 June 2012      
Revenue from external customers 185,731 27,260 25,718 32 - 238,741
Inter-segment revenue - 3,796 - - (3,796) -
Total segment revenue 185,731 31,056 25,718 32 (3,796) 238,741
Depreciation and amortisation 1,719 264 432 - - 2,415
Investment revenue - - - 2,229 - 2,229
Other losses - - - (2) - (2)
Reportable segment profit before tax 118,236 18,367 14,611 1,625 - 152,839
Reportable segment assets 133,036 10,495 14,612 161,883 (7,225) 312,802
Reportable segment liabilities (99,380) (7,883) (13,018) (40,176) 5,074 (155,383)
Net segment assets 33,656 2,612 1,594 121,707 (2,152) 157,419
Information about products/services
The Group’s operating segments are business units that provide different products and services.  The breakdown of revenue from external 
customers for each type of service is therefore the same as the segmental analysis above.
Information about geographical area
All business activities are located within the UK.
Information about major customers
The Group does not rely on any individual customer. 70 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
6. Profit for the financial year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Depreciation of owned plant and equipment    1,352 2,186
Amortisation of other intangible assets    363 229
Operating lease rentals payable – property    2,412 2,638
Staff costs (Note 7)    50,265 43,471
7. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including executive directors) was:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    No. No.
Operating and support functions    524 474
Administrative functions    207 183
    731 657
Of which the following number were employed by the parent company:  
Administrative functions    3 3
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries    38,195 34,244
Social security costs    6,304 4,056
Share-based payment expenses    2,386 2,136
Other pension costs    3,380 3,035
    50,265 43,471
  
The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages, 
which may be linked to the creation of long-term shareholder value. Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the 
employment market generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. All employees are eligible to be considered 
for an annual discretionary bonus. In addition to cash bonuses, the Group operates various share-based remuneration schemes as 
described in note 24. Other pension costs relate wholly to defined contribution schemes.
The analysis of auditor remuneration is as follows: 
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Audit fees:  
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts    5 5
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation   88 85
Fees payable for the review of the Company’s half-yearly financial report   10 10
Other audit related assurance services    13 13
Non-audit fees:  
Other non-audit services    - 31
Total fees:    116 144 71 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
8. Investment revenue
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Interest on bank deposits    2,769 2,158
Dividends from equity investment    110 71
    2,879 2,229
9. Tax
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Current tax    46,698 39,959
Deferred tax (Note 18)    (503) (439)
    46,195 39,520
  
Corporation tax is calculated at 23.75% of the estimated assessable profit for the year to 30 June 2013 (2012: 25.5%).
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, certain tax amounts have been charged or credited directly to equity as 
follows:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Deferred tax relating to share-based payments    (3,546) 5,617
Current tax relating to share-based payments    (482) (4,636)
    (4,028) 981
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
It is expected that the ongoing effective tax rate will remain at a rate approximating to the standard UK corporation tax rate in the medium 
term.  The standard UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 23% (from 24%) on 1 April 2013.  Deferred tax has been recognised at 23%, 
being the rate in force at the balance sheet date.  A deferred tax asset in respect of future share option deductions has been recognised 
based on the Company’s share price as at 30 June 2013.  
Factors affecting future tax charge
Any increase or decrease to the Company's share price will impact the amount of tax deduction available in future years on the value of 
shares acquired by staff under share incentive schemes. The Finance Act 2013 received Royal Assent on 17 July 2013 and will reduce the 
standard rate of UK corporation tax to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015, The reduction to 21% will reduce the deferred tax 
assets shown in note 18 by an estimated £449,000; this will be recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2014.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Profit before tax from continuing operations    195,184 152,839
Theoretical tax charge    46,358 38,976
-at the UK corporation tax rate of    23.75% 25.5%
Items (allowable)/not allowable for tax    (148) 397
Effect of adjustments relating to prior year    (107) 7
Impact of the change in tax rate    92 140
Tax expense for the year    46,195 39,520
Effective tax rate    23.7% 25.9% 72 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
10. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
2012 Final dividend of 10.65p (2011: 8.41p) per share    49,756 38,947
2012 Final special dividend of 6.84p (2011: 5.96p) per share    31,956 27,601
2013 First interim dividend of 6.3p (2012: 5.1p) per share    29,511 23,624
  
After the balance sheet date, the directors declared a second interim (final) ordinary dividend of 14.38 pence per share and a special 
dividend of 8.91 pence per share payable on 27 September 2013 to shareholders on the register on 13 September 2013.  Dividends are 
required to be recognised in the financial statements when paid, and accordingly the declared dividend amounts are not recognised in 
these financial statements, but will be included in the 2014 financial statements as follows: 
     £’000
2013 Second interim (final) dividend of 14.38p per share     67,355
2013 Special dividend of 8.91p per share     41,734
Under an arrangement dated 30 June 1997 the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust, which held the following number of ordinary 
shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc at the date shown, has agreed to waive all dividends.
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Number of shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust   5,923,930 7,263,396
Representing % of called-up share capital    1.25% 1.53%
11. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in free issue during the period, including ordinary shares held in the EBT reserve which have vested 
unconditionally with employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of 
all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 
320,210 at 30 June 2012 (2012: 2,806,402).
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
Earnings (all from continuing operations):    £’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic & diluted EPS - net profit attributable to equity holders of parent company 148,391 112,960
Number of shares:    No. No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS   471,923,756 469,424,156
Weighted average number of shares held by HL EBT which have not vested unconditionally with employees (3,981,223) (2,304,199)
 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS   467,942,533 467,119,957
Earnings per share:    Pence Pence
Basic EPS    31.7 24.2
Diluted EPS    31.4 24.1 73 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
12. Goodwill - Group
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Cost   
At beginning and end of year    1,450 1,450
Accumulated impairment losses  
At beginning and end of year    117 117
Carrying amount  
At end of year    1,333 1,333
The net carrying value of goodwill relates entirely to the acquisition of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited (HLPD). During the year 
as part of a restructuring exercise, HLPD changed its name to Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS). From 1 January 2013 
advisory services previously provided by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM), including those in respect of the Portfolio 
Management Service, are now provided by HLAS. Certain administration services previously provided by HLAS are now provided by HLAM. The 
overall impact to the group is nil but the impact on HLAS is that it will have less revenue and profits than previously. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  The Group has 
prepared financial forecasts for the business for the period to June 2016 which show that the Group as a whole will remain highly profitable and 
cash generative. Within the forecast, the revenue streams which belong to HLAS, although lower than before the restructuring, are forecast to 
grow and the company will continue to be profitable. HLAS is profit making (profit before tax for year ended 30 June 2013 was £44.9 million) and 
has a net assets position as at 30 June 2013 of £23.2 million, therefore the directors see no reason to impair the value of goodwill and continue 
to hold it at its carrying amount.
13. Other intangible assets - Group
 Assets under construction Computer software Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost   
At 1 July 2011 - 2,680 2,680
Additions - 104 104
Other movements - (8) (8)
At 30 June 2012 - 2,776 2,776
Additions 249 666 915
Other movements - (476) (476)
At 30 June 2013 249 2,966 3,215
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2011 - 2,384 2,384
Charge - 229 229
Other movements - (5) (5)
At 30 June 2012 - 2,608 2,608
Charge - 363 363
Other movements - (442) (442)
At 30 June 2013 - 2,529 2,529
Carrying amount 
At 30 June 2013 249 437 686
At 30 June 2012 - 168 168
  
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use by the Group. 74 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
14. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment:
    Group Company
    £’000 £’000
Cost   
At 1 July 2011    14,218 70
Additions    998 -
Other movements    (199) -
At 30 June 2012    15,017 70
Additions    5,301 -
Other movements     (1,197) (70)
At 30 June 2013    19,121 -
Accumulated depreciation  
At 30 June 2011    7,238 700
Charge    2,186 -
Other movements    (199) (630)
At 30 June 2012    9,225 70
Charge    1,352 -
Other movements    (1,193) (70)
At 30 June 2013    9,384 -
Carrying amount  
At 30 June 2013    9,737 -
At 30 June 2012    5,792 -
  
Other movements relate to assets that are no longer in use.
15. Subsidiaries
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in the UK and included in the consolidated results of Hargreaves 
Lansdown Plc, is shown below:
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd (100% shares held)
Unit trust equity broking, investment fund management, life and 
pensions consultancy
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Ltd (100% shares held)
Stockbroking
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd (100% shares held)
Unit trust management
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Ltd (formerly Hargreaves 
Lansdown Pensions Direct - 100% shares held)
Advisory services
Hargreaves Lansdown Nominees Ltd (100% shares held)
Nominee services
Hargreaves Lansdown Insurance Brokers Ltd (100% shares held)
Dormant company
Hargreaves Lansdown Investment Management Ltd (100% shares 
held)
Dormant company
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Ltd (100% shares held)
Dormant company
Library Information Services Ltd (75% shares held)
Data provider
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT Trustees Ltd (100% shares held)
Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust
Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Ltd (100% shares held)
Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan
Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Trustees Ltd (100% shares held)
Dormant company
Hargreaves Lansdown IT & Administration Services Ltd (100% 
shares held) – Dormant company 75 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
16. Investments
Group’s investments
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
At beginning of year    2,228 2,240
Sales    (1,712) (42)
Purchases    97 -
Net increase in the value of available-for-sale investments    - 30
At end of year    613 2,228
Comprising:  
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price   349 1,487
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost    264 741
£349,000 (2012:  £308,000) of investments are classified as held at fair value through profit and loss and £264,000 (2012:  £1,920,000) 
are classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably 
calculated, with the revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve as shown in the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair value cannot be reliably 
calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where 
the directors believe that this is not significantly different to fair value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the 
investment. 
Company’s investments 
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
At beginning of year    3,809 3,778
Sales    (1,657) -
Net increase in the value of available-for-sale investments    - 30
At end of year    2,152 3,809
Comprising:  
Current asset investment - UK listed securities valued at quoted market price   - 1,179
Current asset investment - Unlisted securities valued at cost    - 478
Non-current investments - Investments in subsidiaries valued at cost less impairment  2,152 2,152
  
No investments are classified as available-for-sale (2012:  £1,657,000). Available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value 
where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve in the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.  If a fair 
value cannot be reliably calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are 
included at cost where the directors believe that this is not significantly different to fair value, with a fair value adjustment recognised 
upon disposal of the investment.  76 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
17. Other financial assets
       Group    Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Y e ar ended         
  30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables    
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries and EBT  - - 1,150 32
Trade receivables  229,885 105,654 - -
Other receivables  962 91 - -
Prepayments and accrued income  33,556 36,861 276 72
  264,403 142,606 1,426 104
Cash and cash equivalents    
Restricted cash – client settlement account balances  19,812 12,644 - -
Restricted cash – balances held by EBT  37 2,695 - -
Group cash and cash equivalent balances  177,717 142,380 120,359 105,196
  197,566 157,719 120,359 105,196
Trade and other receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts 
are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  In accordance with market practice, certain 
balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included in debtors.  Trade receivables include £211.4 
million (2012: £93.4 million) of counterparty balances.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and institutional cash funds with near-instant access.  Included in cash and 
cash equivalents are amounts of cash held on client settlement accounts as shown above.  
At 30 June 2013 segregated deposit amounts held by the Group on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority amounted to £3,561 million (2012: £2,922 million). The client retains the beneficial interest in these deposits 
and accordingly they are not included in the balance sheet of the Group.
18. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years. Deferred tax 
has been recognised at 23%, being the rate in force at the balance sheet date.  The Finance Act 2013 reduces the standard UK corporation tax 
rate to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015 which will reduce the deferred tax assets and liabilities shown below.
     Other deductible
 Accelerated tax Future relief on Share-based temporary
 depreciation capital losses payments differences Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group     
At 1 July 2011 583 - 6,734 800 8,117
Credit to income 67 22 45 305 439
Charge to equity - - (5,617) - (5,617)
At 30 June 2012 650 22 1,162 1,105 2,939
(Charge)/credit to income (203) (22) 465 263 503
Credit to equity - - 3,546 - 3,546
At 30 June 2013 447 - 5,173 1,368 6,988
Company     
At 1 July 2011 26 - - 12 38
Charge to income (6) - - (1) (7)
At 30 June 2012 20 - - 11 31
Charge to income (5) - - - (5)
At 30 June 2013 15 - - 11 26 77 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
19. Other financial liabilities
Trade and other payables – current payables
       Group    Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Y e ar ended         
  30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable to subsidiaries  - - 15 18,355
Trade payables  231,192 107,206 - -
Social security and other taxes  10,063 7,615 4 4
Other payables  7,311 7,806 27 25
Accruals and deferred income  11,379 14,325 59 68
  259,945 136,952 105 18,452
    
In accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included 
in creditors.  Trade payables include £230.0 million (2012: £105.6 million) of counterparty balances.  Accruals and deferred income 
principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and revenue received but not yet earned on group pension schemes where 
an ongoing service is still being provided. Other payables principally comprise amounts owed to clients as a loyalty bonus and to staff as 
a bonus.
20. Provisions - Group
   Commission on Property 
   indemnity terms costs Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Included within non-current liabilities:   
At 1 July 2011   - 59 59
Charged during the year   - 218 218
At 30 June 2012   - 277 277
Charged during the year   127 - 127
At 30 June 2013   127 277 404
   
The indemnity provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability to repay commission received on indemnity 
terms.  The provision was based on past experience and the volume of indemnified commission. 
The provision on property related costs represents the Group’s future committed lease payments on non-cancellable leases and other 
contractual obligations that arise on the surrendering of operating leases. These property provisions are not expected to be fully utilised 
until 2026.
21. Share capital
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
Authorised:    £’000 £’000
525,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.4p each    2,100 2,100
Issued and fully paid:  
Ordinary shares of 0.4p each    1,897 1,897
    
    No. of shares No. of shares
Issued and fully paid:  
Number of ordinary shares of 0.4p each    474,318,625 474,318,625
  
The company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 78 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
22. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
       Group    Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Y e ar ended         
  30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year after tax  148,989 113,319 144,687 109,378
Adjustments for:    
Investment revenues  (2,879 ) (2,158) (144,890) (109,388)
Other (losses)/gains  - (71) 159 -
Income tax expense  46,195 39,520 144 134
Depreciation of plant and equipment  1,352 2,186 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets  363 229 - -
Loss on disposal  155 2 - -
Share-based payment expense  2,386 2,136 - -
Increase in provisions  127 218 - -
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  196,688 155,381 100 124
(Increase)/decrease in receivables  (121,797) 33,572 (1,321) 164
Increase/(decrease) in payables  122,993 (30,487) (18,347) 18,399
Operating cash flows  197,884 158,466 (19,568) 18,687
Income taxes paid  (40,521) (35,917) (256) (117)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities, after tax  157,363 122,549 (19,824) 18,570
23. Commitments
Operating lease commitments – The Group as lessee
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating lease recognised as an expense in the year  2,412 2,638
  
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under the remaining term of non-
cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Within one year    2,896 2,896
In the second to fifth years inclusive    11,349 11,454
After five years    22,976 25,767
Total minimum lease payments     37,221 40,117
  
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties. The Group leases various offices under non-
cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation values and renewal rights.
VAT group registration
As a result of group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other companies within 
the VAT group which at 30 June 2013 amounted to £380,000 (2012: £188,000).  
Capital commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group had capital commitments of £1,385,000 for IT server equipment (2012: £nil).  79 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
24. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group seeks to facilitate significant equity ownership by employees, principally through schemes which encourage and assist the 
purchase of the Company’s shares.  
The Group operates four share option plans: the Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”), the Hargreaves Lansdown 
plc Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”), the Hargreaves Lansdown Company Share Option Scheme (the “Executive Option Scheme") and the 
Hargreaves Lansdown Joint Share Ownership Plan (“JSOP”). Awards granted under the Employee SAYE scheme vest over five years. 
Awards granted under the Employee Share Incentive Plan vest over a three-year period.  
Awards granted under the Executive Option Scheme vest between nil and ten years.  Options are exercisable at a price equal to the market 
value of the Company’s shares on the date of grant.  There are currently no performance conditions attached to any options granted under 
any of the schemes, although options are forfeited (in most circumstances) if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.  
Interests in shares purchased under the JSOP were settled at under market value, with tax and National Insurance being paid on the 
difference.  The shares must be held for a minimum of three years under the terms of the Deeds and are realisable in only very limited 
circumstances before that date.  There are no performance conditions attached to the shares. 
The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 which had not vested by 1 
July 2005. They have not been applied to any grants made prior to 7 November 2002.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
                            Year ended 30 June 2013                           Year ended 30 June 2012
  Sh ar e W eight ed av er a g e Sh ar e W eight ed av er a g e         
  options exercise price options exercise price
  No. Pence No. Pence
SIP    
Outstanding at beginning of the year  182,635 23.5 685,575 23.5
Exercised during the year  (82,723) 23.5 (502,940) 23.5
Outstanding at the end of the year  99,912 23.5 182,635 23.5
Exercisable at the end of the year  99,912 23.5 182,635 23.5
SAYE    
Outstanding at beginning of the year  1,444,992 306.2 4,844,858 97.6
Granted during the year  115,701 868.0 665,352 365.0
Exercised during the year  (14,547) 193.9 (3,919,734) 55.1
Forfeited during the year  (89,060) 359.1 (145,484) 392.4
Outstanding at the end of the year  1,457,086 348.6 1,444,992 306.2
Exercisable at the end of the year  5,820 276.9 12,509 219.4
Executive Option Scheme    
Outstanding at beginning of the year  5,900,053 417.4 4,660,641 406.3
Granted during the year  1,093,500 669.9 1,309,999 449.0
Exercised during the year  (463,995) 319.5 (30,710) 195.4
Forfeited during the year  (75,818) 401.6 (39,877) 328.7
Outstanding at the end of the year  6,453,740 467.4 5,900,053 417.4
Exercisable at the end of the year  15,355 195.4 198,640 374.3
JSOP    
Outstanding at beginning of the year        2,750,000 - 2,750,000 -
Exercised during the year      (2,416,666) - - -
Outstanding at the end of the year           333,334 - 2,750,000 -
Exercisable at the end of the year           333,334 - - -
    
The weighted average market share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 737.89 pence (2012: 518.87pence). 80 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
24. Share-based payments (continued)
The share options outstanding at the end of each year have exercise prices and expected remaining lives as follows:
                            Year ended 30 June 2013                           Year ended 30 June 2012
  Sh ar e W eight ed av er a g e Sh ar e W eight ed av er a g e         
  options exercise price options exercise price
  No Pence No Pence
Options exercise price range (pence)    
23.5  99,912 0 years 182,635 0 years
175.0  317,769 0.3 years 337,038 1.3 years
195.4  690,975 0.8 years 721,685 1.8 years
268.3  312,896 1.7 years 340,194 2.7 years
268.8  333,334 0 years 2,750,000 0.4 years
283.8  - 0 years 250,000 0.3 years
347.2  203,680 1.7 years 262,320 2.7 years
365.0  622,295 3.7 years 661,292 4.7 years
388.8  982,365 2.2 years 1,127,442 3.2 years
409.8  500,000 0.2 years 500,000 1.2 years
441.3  200,000 1.7 years 200,000 2.7 years
447.6  400,000 1.2 years 400,000 2.2 years
451.9  645,523 3.2 years 700,909 4.2 years
458.0  800,000 0.3 years 800,000 1.3 years
477.1  91,858 2.7 years 106,467 3.7 years
595.0  212,897 2.7 years 212,897 3.7 years
606.3  724,800 0.9 years 724,800 1.9 years
631.5  493,500 4.3 years - -
687.0  540,000 2.3 years - -
831.0  60,000 4.6 years - -
868.0  112,267 4.7 years - -
  8,344,071 1.8 years 10,277,679 1.9 years 81 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
24. Share-based payments (continued)
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year ended 30 June 2013 and the year ended 30 June 2012 has been 
estimated by the Black-Scholes methodology and the principal assumptions required by the methodology were as follows:
     At 30 June 2013  At 30 June 2012
Weighted average share price    761.84p 479.97p
Expected dividend yields    4.13% 4.99%
SAYE  
Weighted average exercise price    868.00p 365.00p
Expected volatility    63% 50%
Risk-free rate    2.50% 2.50%
Expected life    5 years 5 years
Executive scheme  
Weighted average exercise price    669.85p 449.41p
Expected volatility    63% 39%
Risk-free rate    2.50% 2.50%
Expected life    4 years 4 years
  
The expected volatility    
The expected Hargreaves Lansdown Plc share price volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share 
price since flotation in May 2007.
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Company’s shares were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore no readily available market price existed for 
the shares.  The share price of share option awards granted prior to 15 May 2007 were based on the latest market value agreed with HM 
Revenue & Customs using an earnings multiples approach based on comparable quoted companies.  Similarly, share price volatility was 
estimated as the average of the volatility experienced by a comparable group of quoted companies.  The expected life used in the model 
has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural 
considerations.  Since 15 May 2007, a quoted market price has been available for the Company’s shares. 
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions as shown in note 7.
25. Events after balance sheet date
On 4 September 2013 the Directors proposed a second interim (final) ordinary dividend payment of 14.38 pence per ordinary share and 
a special dividend of 8.91 pence per ordinary share, payable on 27 September 2013 to all shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 13 September 2013 as detailed in note 10. 
26. Related party transactions
The Plc Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and with its directors and members of the Executive Committee 
(the “key management personnel”). Transactions between the Company and its key management personnel are disclosed below.  Details 
of transactions between the Company and other related parties are also disclosed below.      
Trading transactions
The Company entered into the following transactions with directors within the Hargreaves Lansdown Group and related parties who are 
not members of the Group:
During the years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 the Company has been party to a lease with P K Hargreaves, a current director and 
S P Lansdown, a director until 23 November 2012, for rental of the old head office premises at Kendal House. A ten-year lease was signed 
on 6 April 2011 for a rental of part of the building, to be used for disaster recovery purposes at a rent of £105,000 per annum. No amount 
was outstanding at either year-end. Shortly before the year-end P K Hargreaves bought out the 50% ownership in Kendal House held by S 
P Lansdown.  82 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions (continued)
During the years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 the Group has provided a range of investment services to shareholders, directors 
and staff on normal third party business terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group being those personnel who were either a member of the Board of a 
Group company or a member of the Executive Committee during the relevant year shown below, is set out below in aggregate for each of 
the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.  
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits    11,035 9,165
Defined contribution pension costs    416 420
Share-based payments    1,528 1,540
Gains on exercise of share options    1,438 947
Amounts received under long-term incentive schemes    11,364 -
    25,781 12,072
  
Included within the previous table are the following amounts paid to directors of the Company who served during the relevant year.   
Full details of directors’ remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Committee report. 
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries    4,471 3,022
Defined pension contributions    94 112
Share-based payments    733 912
Gains on exercise of share options    1,438 107
Amounts received under long-term incentive schemes    7,829 -
    14,566 4,153
Emoluments of the highest paid director    2,836 1,896
Number of directors who were members of money purchase pension schemes   2 2
  
Transactions between subsidiaries and between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated 
on consolidation. The parent Company, Hargreaves Lansdown plc, entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and the 
Employee Benefit Trust, which are related parties.
    Year ended Year ended 
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Dividends received from subsidiaries    142,600 109,000
Management charges to subsidiaries    718 720
Amount owed to related parties at 30 June    15 32
Amounts owed by related parties at 30 June    1,150 18,355
  
All amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash.  No guarantees have been given or received in 
respect of amounts outstanding.  No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the related parties.   83 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
27. Financial instruments
Fair value
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values.  Market values have 
been used to determine the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale financial assets where there is a quoted 
market price.  Investments in equity instruments which do not have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair value cannot 
be reliably measured are measured at cost which the directors believe is not significantly different to fair value.  
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, 
grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable:
Level 1 - Fair value measured using unadjusted quoted market prices
Level 2 - Fair value measured using inputs derived from observable market data
Level 3 - Fair value measured using valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2013    
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  349 - - 349
Available-for-sale financial assets  - - 264 264
  349 - 264 613
At 30 June 2012    
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  308 - - 308
Available-for-sale financial assets  1,179 - 741 1,920
  1,487 - 741 2,228
    
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year. The reduction in value of Level 3 financial assets relates to a single 
disposal of an investment held at a cost of £477,000, which was disposed of for £142,000, giving rise to a loss on disposal of £335,000 
which was charged to the income statement within “other losses”.
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management
Financial assets principally comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and current asset listed and unlisted 
investments.  Financial liabilities comprise certain provisions and trade and other payables. The main risks arising from financial 
instruments are market risk (including interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk), liquidity risk, and credit risk. Each of these 
risks is discussed in detail below. 
The Group monitors financial risks on a consolidated basis.  Hargreaves Lansdown’s financial risk management is based upon sound 
economic objectives and good corporate practice.  No hedging transactions have taken place during the years presented.  The Group 
has designed a framework to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the Directors have in place risk management practices 
appropriate to a listed company. The management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board. 
(b) Market risk
• Interest rate risk
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest-bearing assets.  There is an 
exposure to interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business.  At 30 June 2013 the value of financial 
instruments on the Group balance sheet exposed to interest rate risk was £197,566,000 (2012: £157,719,000) comprising cash and 
cash equivalents.  A 100bps (1%) move in interest rates, in isolation, would not have a material impact on the Group balance sheet or 
results.  This exposure is continually monitored to ensure that the Group is maximising its interest earning potential within accepted 
liquidity and credit constraints. The Group has no external borrowings and as such is not exposed to interest rate or refinancing risk 
on borrowings.  Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.  Short-term deposits are also made for 
varying periods of between one day and 13 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at 
the respective fixed term deposit rates.  As a source of revenue is based on the value of client cash under administration, the Group 
has an indirect exposure to interest rate risk on cash balances held for clients. These balances are not on the Group balance sheet. 
• Foreign exchange translation and transaction risk
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates.  With 
substantially all of the Group's businesses located within the UK, and therefore with minimal net assets and transactions of the Group 
denominated in foreign currencies, the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange translation or transaction risk and as 
such does not hedge any foreign current assets or liabilities.  The Group deals in foreign currencies on a matched basis on behalf of 
clients, limiting foreign exchange exposure.   84 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
27. Financial instruments (continued)
• Price risk
 Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts on the profitability of the Group as a result of an asset not 
meeting its expected value.  
 The Group is exposed to price risk on corporate investments held on the Group balance sheet.  At 30 June 2013, the fair value of 
investments recognised on the Group balance sheet was £613,000 (2012: £2,228,000).  A 20% move in equity prices, in isolation, 
would not have a material impact on the Group balance sheet or results. 
 As a main source of revenue is based on the value of client assets under administration, the Group has an indirect exposure to 
security price risk on investments held for clients. These assets are not on the Group balance sheet.  The risk of lower revenues is 
partially mitigated by asset class diversification.  The Group does not hedge its revenue exposure to movements in the value of client 
assets arising from these risks, and so the interests of the Group are aligned to those of its clients.
 In addition, the Group acts as a private client investment manager, unit trust manager and agency stockbroker on a matched basis 
so its exposure to market price movements in this capacity is limited to when there is a trade mismatch or error, or if one matched 
counterparty fails to fulfil its obligations.  The impact of these risks is minimised by limits and monitoring controls.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, namely the risk that it may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.  The Group 
is highly cash generative and holds significant liquid assets.  The Group actively maintains cash balances on short-term deposit to ensure 
that the Group has sufficient available funds for operations.  
The table below analyses the maturities of the undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities of the Group based on the 
remaining period to the contractual maturity date at the balance sheet date.
 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2013     
Trade and other payables:     
Trade payables 231,192 - - - 231,192
Social security and other taxes 8,491 476 224 872 10,063
Other payables 7,310 - - - 7,310
Accruals and deferred income 4,193 - - - 4,193
 251,186 476 224 872 252,758
Current tax 12,700 11,158 - - 23,858
Long-term provisions 128 - - 276 404
Total financial liability exposed to liquidity risk 264,014 11,634 224 1,148 277,020
At 30 June 2012     
Trade and other payables:     
Trade payables 107,206 - - - 107,206
Social security and other taxes 7,352 15 - 248 7,615
Other payables 7,806 - - - 7,806
Accruals and deferred income 10,016 - - 1,800 11,816
 132,380 15 - 2,048 134,443
     
Current tax 8,800 9,354 - - 18,154
Long-term provisions 1 - - 276 277
Total financial liability exposed to liquidity risk 141,181 9,369 - 2,324 152,874 85 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
(d)  Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk as credit exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and 
customers.  
 Within the Group’s Stockbroking operation, the Group is exposed to credit risk from counterparties to a securities transaction during the 
period between the trade date and the settlement date. This period is generally three business days. The Group has credit exposure that 
extends beyond the original settlement date if the counterparty fails either to make payment or to deliver securities. These transactions 
are with financial institutions and clients.  Settlement risk is substantially mitigated as a result of the delivery versus payment mechanism 
whereby, if a counterparty fails to make payment, the securities would not be delivered to the counterparty. In that instance, the 
securities could be sold in the market and therefore the economic substance of the transaction is that securities serve as collateral in 
the case of delivery versus payment trade debtors. As a result, the risk exposure is effectively to an adverse movement in market prices 
between the time of trade and settlement.  
Other credit risk within the Group is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and the majority represents balances due from other 
regulated financial institutions where there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and institution. Credit risk is therefore 
considered to be limited.  The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance 
for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the 
recoverability of the cash flows.
Cash is held with UK banks. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with strong credit-ratings 
assigned by international credit-rating agencies and since November 2008 the banks consist of certain eligible banks under the UK 
Government Credit Guarantee Scheme. The Group takes a conservative approach to treasury management and selection of banking 
counterparties, and carries out regular reviews of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings.   
 
The following table discloses the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets:
    At 30 June 2013 At 30 June 2012
    £’000 £’000
Receivables at cost:  
Cash and cash equivalents    197,566 157,719
Trade and other receivables    264,403 142,606
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:  
Financial investments    349 308
Available-for-sale financial assets:  
Financial investments    264 1,920
    462,582 302,553
  
The following table contains an analysis of financial assets that are past due but not impaired at the balance sheet date.  An asset is past 
due when the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due. 86 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Notes to the Financial Statements
27. Financial instruments (continued)
 Neither impaired 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 12 months 
 nor past due past due past due past due past due Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2013     
Trade and other receivables:     
Trade receivables 227,450 2,039 244 107 45 229,885
Other receivables 962 - - - - 962
Prepayments and accrued income 33,556 - - - - 33,556
 261,968 2,039 244 107 45 264,403
Held-for-trading assets 349 - - - - 349
Available-for-sale assets 264 - - - - 264
 262,581 2,039 244 107 45 265,016
At 30 June 2012      
Trade and other receivables:      
Trade receivables 104,587 828 89 60 73 105,637
Other receivables 107 - - - 1 108
Prepayments and accrued income 36,861 - - - - 36,861
 141,555 828 89 60 74 142,606
Held-for-trading assets 308 - - - - 308
Available-for-sale assets 1,920 - - - - 1,920
 143,783 828 89 60 74 144,834
The table overleaf shows the credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired using the following counterparty 
gradings:
• Financial institutions
 In respect of trade receivables, £13.6 million (2012: £6.2 million) is due from financial institutions regulated by the FCA in the course 
of settlement as a result of daily trading and £15.6 million (2012: £11.0 million) relates to revenue items due from financial institutions 
regulated by the FCA.
 For prepayments and accrued income, the balance predominantly relates to accrued interest due from financial institutions regulated 
by the FCA on own and client cash balances.
• Corporate clients 
 Prepayments relating to businesses other than financial institutions, mainly purchase suppliers.
• Individuals
 In respect of trade receivables, the balance is related to amounts due from individual clients in the course of settlement as a result of 
daily trading. 
 In respect of prepayments and accrued income, the balance includes management fees and charges due from clients. 87 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
  Financial institutions Corporate clients Individuals Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2013    
Trade receivables  29,268 73 198,109 227,450
Other receivables  962 - - 962
Prepayments and accrued income  28,180 3,757 1,619 33,556
Held-for-trading assets  349 - - 349
Available-for-sale assets  264 - - 264
  59,023 3,830 199,728 262,581
At 30 June 2012    
Trade receivables  17,042 80 87,465 104,587
Other receivables  108 - - 108
Prepayments and accrued income  31,909 2,689 2,263 36,861
Held-for-trading assets  308 - - 308
Available-for-sale assets  1,920 - - 1,920
  51,286 2,769 89,728 143,783
    
The disclosures for financial instruments in the above tables of note 27 to the financial statements have only been made in respect of the 
Group. They have not been made in respect of the Company as the only significant financial instruments held by the Company are cash 
and cash equivalents as shown in note 17.
Capital management
 
Capital is defined as the total of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves. Total capital at 30 June 2013 was 
£197.1 million (2012: £157.4 million) and this capital is managed via the net assets to which it relates.  
Regulatory capital is determined in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive prescribed in the UK by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), and the Group’s regulatory capital is divided into two tiers:
- Tier 1 capital, which is the total of issued share capital, retained earnings and reserves created by appropriations of retained earnings, 
net of the book value of goodwill and other intangible assets; and 
-  Tier 2 capital, which is unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are i) to comply with the regulatory capital requirements set by the FCA; ii) to safeguard 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders; and iii) to maintain a strong capital base to support the development of its business.
All regulated entities within the Group are required to meet the Pillar 1 regulatory Capital Resources Requirements (CRR) set out in the 
Capital Requirements Directive (the “Directive”).  The CRR is the higher of i) the fixed overhead requirement and ii) the sum of the credit 
risk capital requirement and the market risk capital requirement. 
The Group is also required to comply with the requirements of the Directive under Pillar 2 (Operational Risk) and Pillar 3 (Disclosure) 
in respect of the Group’s regulatory capital requirements. The Directive requires continual assessment of the Group’s risks in order 
to ensure that the higher of Pillar 1 and 2 requirements is met, the objective being to ensure that the regulated firms have adequate 
capital to enable them to manage their risks. The Group completes its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its Individual 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) under Pillar 2, which is a forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major 
risks, such as a significant market downturn, and identifying mitigating action. The ICAAP covers current as well as projected capital 
requirements, and is used to manage regulatory capital. Under the requirements of Pillar 3, the Group is required to disclose regulatory 
capital information, and has done so by making the disclosures available in the Group’s website at http://www.hl.co.uk/investor-
relations/pillar-3-disclosures.
All of the regulated firms maintained surplus regulated capital throughout the year.  The aggregated regulatory Pillar 1 capital surplus 
across the four regulated subsidiaries was approximately £47.1 million at 30 June 2013 (2012: £43.8 million).The regulated subsidiaries 
are limited in the distributions that can be paid up to the parent by their individual capital requirements. Capital adequacy and the use of 
regulatory capital are monitored by the Group’s management.  88 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Executive Directors
Ian Gorham
Peter Hargreaves  
Tracey Taylor
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Barling
Jonathan Bloomer 
Michael Evans
Dharmash Mistry
Stephen Robertson 
Company Secretary
Judy Matthews
Auditor
Deloitte LLP , Bristol
Solicitors
Burges Salmon LLP , Bristol
Principal Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Bristol
Brokers
Barclays 
Numis Securities Limited
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Registered Office
One College Square South
Anchor Road
Bristol
BS1 5HL
Website
www.hl.co.uk 
Company Number
02122142
Directors, Company Secretary, 
Advisers and Shareholder 
Information 89 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Five Year Summary
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 292,403 238,741 207,904 158,970 132,845
Administrative expenses (100,475) (83,355) (79,813) (69,159) (63,038)
Underlying operating profit  190,407 155,386 128,091 89,811 69,807
One-off administrative expenses * - - - (4,429) -
FSCS costs ** 532 (4,774) (3,646) - -
Operating profit  192,460 150,612 124,445 85,382 69,807
Investment revenue 2,879 2,229 1,496 854 2,534
Other (losses) and gains (155) (2) 72 59 740
Profit before tax 195,184 152,839 126,013 86,295 73,081
Tax (46,195) (39,520) (34,066) (25,020) (20,968)
Profit after tax 148,989 113,319 91,947 61,275 52,113
Equity minority interests (598) (359) (127) (9) 10
Profit for the financial year attributable to members of  
the parent company 148,391 112,960 91,820 61,266 52,123
Equity shareholders’ funds 196,622 156,994 130,801 66,114 84,720
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of  
diluted EPS (million) 471.92 469.42 469.07 468.42 469.32
 
    
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
 Pence pence pence pence pence
Total equity dividends per share paid during year  23.79 19.47 6.78 16.636 7.809
Total equity dividends per share proposed or paid in 
respect of the financial year 29.59 22.59 18.87 11.88 10.10
Basic earnings per share 31.7 24.2 19.8 13.2 11.2
Diluted earnings per share 31.4 24.1 19.6 13.1 11.1
Underlying basic earnings per share - - 20.3 14.0 11.3
Underlying diluted earnings per share - - 20.0 13.9 11.3
     
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Total assets under administration (£billion) 36.4 26.3 24.6 17.6 11.9
Net new business (£billion) 5.1 3.2 3.5 3.3 2.0
Total active clients ('000) 507 432 386 336 288
* Relates to the costs of an office move
** Relates to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) levies. In 2011 these costs were shown split between one-off costs of £3,036k and administrative expenses of 
£610k.
  90 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Definition of Terms
AGM 
Annual General Meeting
Asset retention rate  
Based on the monthly lost AUA as a percentage of the 
opening months AUA and averaging for the year
AUA 
Assets Under Administration is the total value of 
all assets administered or managed by Hargreaves 
Lansdown on behalf of its clients
AUM 
Assets Under Management is the total value of all assets 
managed by Hargreaves Lansdown comprising our 
Multi-Manager funds and assets held within PMS 
Basic EPS 
Basic Earnings Per Share
Board 
The board of directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc
Client retention rate 
Based on the monthly lost clients as a percentage of the 
opening months total clients and averaging for the year
Company 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc
CRC Energy efficiency scheme 
The Carbon Reduction Commitment efficiency scheme 
is a mandatory government scheme aimed at improving 
energy efficiency and cutting emissions in large public 
and private sector organisations
Corporate Vantage 
Our corporate wrap allows employers to offer the 
benefits of the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage service to 
employees via the workplace
CTF 
Child Trust Fund
Diluted EPS 
Diluted Earnings Per Share
EBT 
Employee Benefit Trust
FCA 
Financial Conduct Authority, the regulator of the UK 
financial services industry 
FSCS 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Fund of Funds 
An investment strategy whereby a portfolio is created by 
investing in funds rather than directly into equities and 
other securities
Group 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc and its controlled entities
HL 
Hargreaves Lansdown
HL Live Apps 
A software application which is designed for use on 
mobile phones and other portable electronic devices 
to allow clients access to their accounts and other 
information on the move
HMRC 
HM Revenue and Customs
IFA 
Independent Financial Advisor
IMA 
Investment Management Association
ICAAP 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
Investment Supermarket Platform 
A service which allows clients to buy, sell and hold a 
wide range of investments in one place
ISA 
Individual Savings Account
IT 
Information Technology
JSOP 
Joint Share Ownership Plan
Loyalty Bonus 
A reward to customers for holding certain collective 
investments within the Vantage wrapper. This is paid on 
a regular basis as a percentage of qualifying assets
LTIP 
Long term incentive plan
Master Portfolios 
An interactive tool to help investors start their own 
portfolio. It provides five portfolios with different levels 
of risk and time horizons
Multi-Manager funds 
A range of funds offered by Hargreaves Lansdown which 
are managed under the fund of funds format
Net new business inflows 
Represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and 
stock transfers in less cash withdrawals, cash and stock 
transfers out
Number of new Clients 
Unique number of clients holding at least one account 
(PMS, ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account) with a value 
greater than £100 at the year-end
OEIC 
Open Ended Investment Company
Operating profit margin 
Operating profit (profit before investment gains) divided 
by revenue
Organic growth 
Growth in assets under administration can be 
attributed to two main causes. The first is growth due 
to the appreciation in the value of existing assets 
and the second is organic growth through additional 
contributions
Pillar 1 and 2 capital requirements 
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision set out 
certain capital requirements which must be met by 
qualifying financial institutions
Platforum 
The advisory and research business specialising in 
investment platforms which compiles the "Direct 
Platform Guide"
PMS 
Portfolio Management Service
RDR 
Retail Distribution Review
SAYE scheme 
Save As You Earn scheme
SIPP 
Self-invested Personal Pension
Treating clients fairly 
A central concept to the FSA's retail regulatory agenda, 
which aims to ensure an efficient and effective market 
and thereby help consumers achieve a fair deal
UK Corporate Governance Code 
A code with sets out standards for best boardroom 
practice with a focus on board leadership and 
effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and 
relations with shareholders
Vantage 
The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-
investor platform
Wealth 150 
A research-led list of our favourite funds for new 
investment in the main fund sectors
Year-end/financial year 
Our financial year starts on 1 July and ends on 30 June This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company 
and no-one else. The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this 
document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference within this report 
may constitute “forward-looking statements” in respect of the group’s 
operations, performance, prospects and/or financial condition. By their 
nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties 
and assumptions and actual results or events may differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by those statements. Accordingly, no assurance 
can be given that any particular expectation will be met and reliance should 
not be placed on any forward-looking statement. Additionally, forward-
looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be 
taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the 
future. No responsibility or obligation is accepted to update or revise any 
forward-looking statement resulting from new information, future events or 
otherwise. Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, 
or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares or other securities 
in the company, nor shall it or any part of it or the fact of its distribution 
form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or 
commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, nor does it constitute 
a recommendation regarding the shares and other securities of the company. 
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance 
and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser. 
Statements in this report reflect the knowledge and information available at 
the time of its preparation. Liability arising from anything in this report shall 
be governed by English Law. Nothing in this report shall exclude any liability 
under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
Cautionary statement  One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL
Tel: 0117 900 9000
www.hl.co.uk
Registered number 02122142
