 Harworth Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
www.harworthgroup.com Contents
 STRATEGIC REPORT
2 How we add value
4 Our business model
4 Delivering on our strategy
5 Our markets
6 Performance highlights and Key Performance Indicators
7 Harworth at a glance
8 Our year
10 Chairman’s statement
12 Chief Executive’s statement
15 March 2017 equity placing
16 Capital Growth in 2016
 18 Capital Growth case study: Logistics North
 20 Capital Growth case study: Prince of Wales
22 Income Generation in 2016
 24 Income Generation case study: Gateway 36
 26 Income Generation case study: Renewables
28 Acquisitions in 2016
 30 Acquisitions case study: Gateway 45, Leeds
 32 Acquisitions case study: Four Oaks business park
34 Financial review
40 How we manage our risks
46 Harworth in the community
48 Harworth and the environment
50 Our people
51 Health and safety
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
54 Board of Directors and Company Secretary
56 Chairman’s introduction
58 Statement of Corporate Governance
66 Directors’ Remuneration report
80 Audit Committee report
84 Nomination Committee report
86 Directors’ report
91 Statement of Directors’ responsibility
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 Independent auditors’ report
97 Consolidated income statement
98 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
99 Balance sheets
100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
101 Company statement of changes in equity
1 0 2	 S t a t e m e n t s	o f	c a s h	fl o w s
1 0 3	 N o t e s	t o	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s
133 Company information and advisers
1 3 4	 D e fi n i t i o n s	a n d	a b b r e v i a t i o n s	u s e d
Front cover:  
View of Waverley and  
the AMP , Summer 2016
Before shot (our Vision):  
Logistics North, Spring 2014
After shot (our Strategy): 
Logistics North, Autumn 2016
Harworth Group plc 
Advantage House,  
Poplar Way,  
Rotherham, 
S60 5TR
www.harworthgroup.com BEFORE
Our vision
To be the leading brownfield regeneration Company in the North of England  
and the Midlands, delivering superior returns to Shareholders by providing  
innovative and sustainable solutions to customers.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 1
Our strategy
To promote, develop and utilise our existing property portfolio, in addition to 
replenishing our asset base through acquiring attractive investment opportunities, 
to enhance net asset value and Shareholder returns. To maintain an appropriately 
geared and well capitalised business which grows alongside its employees through 
its established and improving Stakeholder relations to achieve outperformance.
NOW 2 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
How we add value
The Harworth effect
Acquisitions
Masterplanning – Our core 
skill as a business is to create 
a strategic vision and plan 
for all our sites which, when 
brought to market with  
planning permission for  
residential or commercial 
uses, creates value.
Planning approval –   
Our Strategic Land team has 
secured planning consents for 
over 9,500 residential plots and 
10 million sq. ft of commercial 
space since 2008, and a large 
proportion of these consents 
are taken forward as Harworth’s  
Major Projects – often seen 
as showcase projects for 
br ownfield 	 r edevelopment.
Acquisitions and land 
assembly – We have a large 
landbank	of	br ownfield	land	
and former industrial assets 
across the North of England 
and the Midlands, owning over 
22,000 acres of land across  
140 sites. An important part  
of our strategy is to replenish 
our portfolio with acquisitions  
to ensure the growth of 
the business.
KEY
Acquisitions
Capital Growth
Income Generation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 3
CAPITAL GROWTH (pages 16 to 21) 
focuses on maximising value by developing 
the property portfolio and includes taking 
sites through the development cycle from 
masterplanning inception through to plot 
sale and build out. 
INCOME GENERATION (pages 22 to 27) 
focuses on retaining and effectively 
managing selected land and property 
assets to generate a long-term  
recurring income stream. 
ACQUISITIONS (pages 28 to 33)  
focuses on replenishing our land and 
property portfolio with new sites in 
order to assure the sustainable growth 
of the business.
Harworth operates its business through three separate but related segments.
Capital Growth Income Generation
TIME
Value engineering and 
land remediation – Once 
a use for a site has been iden-
tified, 	 we 	 apply 	 value 	 engineer-
ing principles through our  
in-house development team   
in remediating land and  
creating development platforms 
that match the proposed use. 
Infrastructure 
development – Prior to 
securing a use on our  
developments, we invest in and 
develop infrastructure to create 
serviced development plots.
Plot sale and build out – 
Once we have secured an end-
use for a site, we either sell 
engineered land for residential 
or commercial purposes, or 
retain land to grow our  
income portfolio – either 
through leasing directly  
developed commercial units   
or renting out land.
Asset management –  
Finally, we actively asset  
manage our landholdings and 
built commercial space to 
deliver further value from the 
portfolio. This includes being 
a responsible landowner on 
our Major Projects to ensure 
individual developments come 
forward in line with our vision  
for the entire site. Asset  
management also includes 
repurposing our built space, 
where appropriate, regearing 
leases in order to grow our 
income and managing our 
Business Space and Natural 
Resources sites  to ensure 
overheads are minimised and 
tenants 	 ar e 	 satisfied. 	 4 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Our business model
Delivering on our strategy
Masterplanning 
and market 
knowledge
Remediation 
and restoration
specialists
Capital uplift/
NAV growth
Development/ 
Infrastructure 
management
Diverse and 
extensive 
landbank
Hold for 
recurring income 
Realisation of 
Capital 
Acquisitions
Capital Growth
Income Generation
Reinvestment of Capital
Asset 
management
OUR STRATEGY OUR DELIVERY
Expanding our geographical reach To expand progressively our geographical reach into all regions of the UK that have 
strong and stable markets, with initial focus on our core regions and adjacent areas.
 
Maintaining sector diversity To maintain our focus on residential, commercial and energy occupiers to underpin 
our 	 site-specific 	 masterplans.
 
Building resilient income To build and improve the quality of our recurring income, to cover overheads 
(including strategic land promotion), interest and ultimately tax and dividends.
 
Targeted site selection and 
commer cial 	 development 	 via 	 flexible 	
deal structures
To select sites carefully on a targeted basis, whilst delivering direct commercial 
development and value add initiatives to optimise equity returns by employing a 
range of deal structures.
 
Competitive advantage comes from our ability to add value through management 
actions rather than reliance on market movements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 5
North West
Yorkshire
(1)
East Midlands
West 
Midlands
Legend
Core regions
Target Adjacent Regions
Adjacent growth regions
Future growth regions
COMMERCIAL
• Demand for well-connected industrial and logistics space remains strong, 
driven by the rise of e-tailing, with agents continuing to highlight the sector as 
the most attractive of the commercial real estate sectors.
• Supply of units continues to be squeezed across all regions, both under and 
above 100,000 sq. ft driving take-up and rental growth.
LOW CARBON ENERGY
• Planned closure of Britain’s 
e i g ht 	 r e m a i n i n g 	 c o a l- fi r e d 	
power stations by 2025 
provides opportunities for 
alternative energy 
technologies to replace the 
power generation capacity 
lost when they cease 
operation.
• Good interest remains for 
multi-energy schemes to 
address current grid 
system imbalances, 
including battery storage 
technology.
RESIDENTIAL
• National housing under-supply is driving strong 
demand for land across all regions, with housebuilders 
reporting consistent sales of new homes.
• Presumption remains in favour of residential 
d e v e l o p m e nt 	 o n 	 b r o w nfi e l d 	 l a n d .
• Government stimulus measures for housing 
p u r c h a s e r s 	 r e m a i n 	 i n 	 p l a c e , 	 a s 	 c o nfi r m e d 	 i n 	 t h e 	
recent Housing White Paper.
 Our markets
(1)
 Comprises South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and part of North Yorkshire. 6 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Performance highlights and  
Key Performance Indicators
(1)
	 20 1 5 	 N A V 	 a n d 	 e a r n i n g s 	 p e r 	 s h a re 	 fi g u re s 	 a s s u m e 	 20 1 6 ’ s 	 1 	 fo r 	 1 0 	 s h a re 	 c o ns o l i d ati o n 	 h ad 	 o c cu r re d 	 i n 	 20 1 5 	 a n d 	 20 1 5 	 u n d e r l y i n g 	 fi g u re s 	 a s s u m e 	 th at 	 H a r wo r th 	 Estat e s 	 Pro p e r t y 	 G ro u p 	 L i m i t e d 	 h ad 	 b e e n 	
owned from the start of the year.
(2)
	 O p e rati n g 	 p rofi t 	 b efo re 	 ex c e pti o n a l 	 i t e ms 	 a n d 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s.
(3)
	 In c re a s e/ ( d e c re a s e ) 	 i n 	 fa i r 	 va l u e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( 20 1 6 : 	 £33.5m ) , 	 p rofi t / ( l o s s ) 	 o n 	 s a l e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( £8.8 m ) 	 to g eth e r 	 w i th 	 oth e r 	 g a i ns, 	
b e i n g 	 ove rag e s 	 ( £0 . 7 m ) , 	 a n d 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s 	 ( £0 .6 m ) .
(4)
	 C o ns e nt e d 	 fi g u re s 	 i n c l u d e s 	 2 . 6 4m 	 sq . 	 f t 	 at 	 G at eway 	 45 	 Le e d s, 	 o u r 	 j o i nt 	 50 : 50 	 ve ntu re 	 w i th 	 Eva ns 	 Pro p e r t y 	 G ro u p .
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(1)
Strong 2016 financial performance, with profits and Net Asset Value 
(NAV) ahead of expectations
• NAV rose to £334.9m (115p per share), a 12.5% increase from 2015 NAV of £297 .7m 
(102p per share)
• EPRA NAV, which excludes deferred tax and the mark to market movement on 
financial 	 inst rumen t s , 	 up 	 t o 	 £ 35 0 . 1 m 	 ( 1 20p 	 per 	 shar e ) , 	 a 	 1 3 . 3 % 	 incr ease 	 fr om 	 20 1 5 	
of £309.1m (106p per share)
• Opera t ing 	 pr o fit 	 o f 	 £ 45 . 8m
(2)
 (2015: £37 .9m), including value gains of £43.7m
(3)
  
( 20 1 5 : 	 £ 36 . 3m ) 	 and 	 pr o fit 	 fr om 	 opera t ions 	 o f 	 £2 .2 m 	 ( 20 1 5 : 	 £ 1 . 5m )
• Earnings per share of 3.5p (2015: 3.1p), underlying earnings per share 13.7p 
(2015: 12.2p)
STRATEGIC AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
Clear strategic focus on residential and commercial markets in our 
regions that continue to be supportive of growth. This reflects strong 
fundamentals, being the shortage of housing supply and available 
commercial space
• Six acquisitions (£31.6m) made including 50% purchase of the investment vehicle 
that owns Gateway 45, Leeds’ largest live commercial development, and two 
North West business parks that are both fully let; strengthening the income base 
and growing our geographic presence
• £58.9m of disposals made to capture value increases on mature residential and 
commercial sites and to increase our focus on sites with higher value add potential. 
Portfolio now comprises the ownership or management of 22,000 acres on over 
140 sites
Operational performance across all sectors was very good with 
continuing momentum into 2017
• Residential sales progress was consistent through the year with 619 plots sold 
across 6 sites. Planning consent was secured for 65 new plots and applications for 
a further 1,200 plots were submitted. Across the portfolio, consents stand at over 
9,500 plots with a further c.8,000 plots in the planning pipeline 
• Commercial sales were made at a number of sites, the highlight being the sale of 
43 . 7 	 acr es 	 a t 	 L ogist ics 	 Nor t h 	 t o 	 Lidl 	 UK 	 f or 	 £2 2 . 5m , 	 r ealising 	 a 	 healt h y 	 pr o fit 	 abo v e 	
book value. Across the portfolio, c.10.0m sq. ft is consented on our land
(4)
, with 
1.9m sq. ft of new applications submitted and a further 6.3m sq. ft to be submitted
• The income portfolio made further progress with new and renewed business park 
le t t ings 	 and 	 fur t her 	 lo w 	 carbon 	 ener gy 	 t enan t s , 	 o ffse t t ing 	 t he 	 pr e viously 	 flagged 	
t r end 	 o f 	 declining 	 coal 	 fines 	 sales . 	 P ract ical 	 comple t ion 	 o f 	 dir ect 	 de v elopmen t s 	 in 	
Yorkshire and the M&G Real Estate forward-funded units at Logistics North also 
provide a pipeline of further income producing opportunities into 2017
FINANCING 
New debt financing secured to provide headroom and advance income 
generating acquisitions
• In August, existing RCF increased from £65m to £75m and extended by 1 year to 2021
• Portfolio gearing of 9.9% net loan to value (LTV) which equates to 31.3% set against 
the Business Space and Natural Resources properties
Value gains
(3)
 and income generation
Disposals less development spend and 
acquisitions
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Net Asset Value
Net loan to value
£270m
£285m
£300m
£315m
£330m
£345m
£360m
2016 2015
NAV EPRA NAV
£297.7m
£309.1m
£334.9m
£350.1m
£30.0m
£32.5m
£35.0m
£37.5m
£40.0m
£42.5m
£45.0m
2016 2015
£0.0m
£0.5m
£1.0m
£1.5m
£2.0m
£2.5m
  
Value gains Income generation
£36.3m
£1.5m
£43.7m
£2.2m
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
2016 2015
Net LTV - Business Space and Natural Resources properties
Net LTV
34.3%
10.7%
31.3%
9.9%
£0m
£10m
£20m
£30m
£40m
2016 2015
Disposals less development spend
Acquisitions
£19.9m
£18.8m
£28.8m
£32.3m CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 7
Harworth at a glance
(1)
 Includes investment properties, assets held for sale, joint ventures, overages and owner occupied properties.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WE DELIVER NEW HOMES, NEW COMMERCIAL SPACE AND NEW LOW 
CARBON PROJECTS BY USING OUR BROWNFIELD LAND EXPERTISE
9,529
Consented housing plots
c.10m sq. ft
Consented employment space
144.5MW
Low carbon energy capacity 
installed on our land
ONCE FULLY DEVELOPED, OUR DEVELOPMENTS COULD MAKE  
A BIG DIFFERENCE TO THE NORTH OF ENGLAND AND THE MIDLANDS
Potential to deliver
17,000 homes
Potential to deliver
22m sq. ft 
employment space
Potential to deliver
300MW  
of capacity to the  
National Grid
This could deliver up to
£2.8bn
in Gross Value Added 
to UK plc
This could deliver up to
58,000
new jobs
This could power over 
100,000  
Family homes
WE WORK SAFELY AND RESPONSIBLY IN MAKING THIS DIFFERENCE
51
s ta ff
22%
Reduction in CO2 emissions  
from activities in 2016
0
RI DDOR 	 r epor t s 	 filed 	 b y 	 
Harworth in 2016
WE ARE ONE OF THE UK’S LARGEST REGENERATION COMPANIES
 £400.3m
Investment property value
(1)
 
Over 22,000 acres 
CO
2 8 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
JANUARY 
Direct development of 75,000 sq. ft 
begins at Gateway 36
APRIL 
4.2MW solar farm completed by Anesco at Oxcroft, Derbyshire 
MARCH 
Acquisition of 50% of Aire Valley Land LLP (which owns 
Temple Green (now Gateway 45, Leeds) for £8.5m 
FEBRUARY 
First three units completed at Gateway 36
Planning consent for 65 new homes and 120,000 sq. ft  
of commercial space obtained at Welbeck
Acquisition of Advantage House in Rotherham for  
£2.2m at a Net Initial Yield of 13%
Our year
MAY 
Residential plot sales completed at 
North Gawber, Barnsley to Avant 
Homes and Harron Homes to deliver 
a total of 315 homes
JUNE 
Direct development of 52,000 sq. ft 
of commercial space begins at the 
AMP , Rotherham
Construction of Helix at Gateway 36,  
Spring 2016 Gateway 45 Leeds (Temple Green), Summer 2016
Advantage House, Summer 2016
Oxcroft solar farm, Spring 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 9
OCTOBER 
Sale of second phase of land at Torne Park, 
Doncaster to Taylor Wimpey to build 96 plots
AUGUST 
Phase 1 infrastructure works 
completed at Gateway 45, Leeds to 
open up development
Increased funding line (£10m 
increase to £75m) secured from  
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to 
support further growth
SEPTEMBER 
Direct development of 75,000 sq. ft 
of commercial space at Gateway 36 
practically completed
NOVEMBER 
Acquisition of Moorland Gate Business Park, Lancashire 
for £4.5m at a Net Initial Yield of 9.53%
DECEMBER 
Acquisition of Four Oaks business park, Lancashire for £13.4m at a  
Net Initial Yield of 8.74%
Sale of 43.71 acres at Logistics North to Lidl UK for £22.5m to build its North 
West Distribution Centre
Sale 	 o f 	 firs t 	 phase 	 a t 	 E llingt on , 	 Nor t humberland 	 t o 	 Ar ch 	 Gr oup 	 t o 	 build 	 
99 homes and sale of fourth phase at Prince of Wales, Pontefract to  
Harron Homes to build 89 homes
Entrance to Prince of Wales, February 2016
Logistics North, Autumn 2016
Homes at Torne Park, Autumn 2016 10 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OVERVIEW, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE
Our core strategy is to grow and realise value from our 
extensive land bank, much of which derives from our 
herita ge 	 coalfield 	 por t f olio , 	 supplemen t ed 	 b y 	 a 	 r ange 	 o f 	
land and property acquisitions in the North and Midlands 
over the past two years.
Harworth has extensive experience in remediating and 
developing large previously used sites for future use for 
commercial and residential purposes. Our Capital Growth 
team continued to deliver value growth across our 
underlying portfolio by securing planning consents, 
re-engineering land for future uses, proactive asset 
management and strategic land acquisitions during the 
year. We achieved particularly good progress at our 
Logistics North site in Bolton, completing sales to Lidl UK 
(for £22.5m), Aldi and Greene King, a letting to Costa 
Coff ee 	 and 	 a chie ving 	 pr a ct ical 	 comple t ion 	 o f 	 t w o 	 f or w ard	
funded units on behalf of M&G Real Estate in December 
2016. One of these units was let to Whistl shortly after the 
year-end. 
Our commitment to investors is, over time, to seek to 
cover the Group’s operating costs, interest, tax and 
dividends from ongoing rental and operating income. A 
significan t 	 pr opor t ion 	 o f 	 t his 	 income 	 has 	 been 	 gener a t ed 	
fr om 	 miner als 	 and 	 coal 	 fines 	 r eco v er ed 	 during 	 t he 	
de v elopmen t 	 pr ocess . 	 As 	 pr e viously 	 fla gged , 	 t his 	 income 	
stream experienced a downturn in 2016, following the 
sharp reduction in coal burn in the UK power industry. 
Our Income Generation team performed very well in 
mitigating this downturn by growing our rental income 
and undertaking targeted direct development to create 
further opportunities for rental growth in 2017 . We also 
focused our acquisition strategy during the second half of 
2016 on income generating assets, including Moorland 
Gate and Four Oak business parks, which present 
significan t 	 oppor t unit ies 	 f or 	 r en tal 	 impr o v emen t 	 and 	
yield compression.
Six acquisitions were completed during the year, for a total 
of £31.6m, all within the core regions in which we operate. 
Two of those acquisitions have continued to replenish the 
strategic land bank in order to secure our long-term 
development pipeline; a key component of our strategy.
We review our strategy each year. This year’s review 
reinforced to the Board that the current strategy remains 
robust and appropriate. Our consistently strong rates of 
value growth are driven more by management initiatives 
than underlying movements in the real estate markets, 
making the Group’s operational performance less 
e xposed 	 t o 	 mark e t 	 fluct ua t ions . 	 This 	 has 	 been 	 par t icularly 	
evident in the Group’s performance in the second half of 
the year. 
DIVIDEND
We paid a dividend of 0.51p per share (£1.5m or £2.0m 
on 	 an 	 annualised 	 basis ) 	 f or 	 t he 	 2 0 1 5 	 financial 	 y ear 	 on 	
9 	 Sep t ember 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 This 	 w as 	 t he 	 firs t 	 dividend 	 in 	 man y 	
years. The Board has stated its intention to grow the 
dividend, broadly in line with the growth of the business, 
and pay it from recurring income and realised gains from 
disposals. The Board will not distribute unrealised gains 
recognised on the revaluation of property and will retain a 
proportion of its recurring income and realised gains for 
reinvestment into the property portfolio. Consistent with 
that policy, we declared and paid an interim dividend of 
0.23p per share in December 2016 and I am pleased to 
sa y 	 t ha t 	 t he 	 Board 	 is 	 r ecommending 	 a 	 final 	 dividend 	 o f 	
0.523p per share to give a total dividend of 0.753p per 
share (£2.2m) for the year, being a 10% increase on last 
y ear’ s 	 annualised 	 dividend . 	 The 	 final 	 dividend 	 will 	 be 	 paid 	
on 30 May 2017 to Shareholders on the register as at 
5 May 2017 .
OUR BOARD 
At the start of 2016 we welcomed Andrew Kirkman as 
Finance Director. Andrew joined us from Viridor, one of 
the two main subsidiaries of Pennon Group plc. Andrew 
has 	 alr ea dy 	 ma de 	 a 	 significan t 	 con t ribut ion , 	 in 	 par t icular 	
s t r engt h en i ng 	 our 	 fin anci al 	 m an a gem en t 	 an d 	 i m pr o vi ng	
our investor relations approach. In April, Peter Hickson 
retired from the Board at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, having served as Senior Independent Director 
and 	 Chairman 	 o f 	 t he 	 Remuner a t ion 	 Commit t ee 	 f or 	 fiv e 	
years. I would like to thank Peter for his strong support 
and guidance to me and the Board over that time, not 
least through our complicated restructuring and the 
subsequent re-acquisition of Harworth Estates in 2015.
In April we also welcomed Andrew Cunningham, formerly 
Chief Executive of Grainger plc, to the Board and we 
b en e fi t 	 fr o m 	 h i s 	 e x t en s iv e 	 e xp eri en c e 	 i n 	 a d j a c en t 	 m a rk e t s . 	
The Board appointed Lisa Clement, who has been a 
Board member since 2011, as Senior Independent 
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to present the Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2016. We have delivered another year of strong growth, despite the 
political events that overshadowed the property industry in 2016. The business continued to 
meet its ambition of increasing net asset value (NAV) by at least 10% per annum through the 
property cycle. NAV has grown by 12.5% (2015: 18.9% reflecting capital raised) to £334.9m at 
the year-end (2015: £297.7m). EPRA NAV at the end of the year rose to £350.1m, representing a 
13.3% increase over the year (2015: £309.1m). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 11
Director, and Lisa also took on the chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Andrew Cunningham replaced 
Lisa as chair of the Audit Committee. We also welcomed 
Chris Birch as our Company Secretary and Group 
General Counsel in June.
OUR PEOPLE
We have a dedicated team of skilled and experienced 
professionals who know how to drive value and income 
from our portfolio. As the business grows and matures, 
so does the team. I am pleased to say that 15% of our 
people earned well-deserved promotions at the 
beginning 	 o f 	 t his 	 y ear , 	 r e flect ing 	 t he 	 gr o wing 	 e xperience 	
and capabilities across the business. We have actively 
recruited during the year and are continuing to do so, to 
meet the demands of our growing land and property 
portfolio. As we grow our talent, continuing to increase 
diversity remains a priority. 
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
We appreciate the continued strong support from all our 
Shareholders as we continue to grow. Our two largest 
Shareholders, The Peel Group and the Pension 
P r o t ect ion 	 F und 	 (P P F ) , 	 ha v e 	 r ea ffirmed 	 t heir 	 s t r ong 	
medium to long term support to the Group. The PPF has 
r ecen t ly 	 con firmed 	 t ha t 	 it 	 has 	 no w 	 mo v ed 	 it s 	 shar eholding 	
in the Group from its portfolio of “assets acquired through 
restructuring” into its core, long-term investment portfolio, 
with a desire to support the full realisation of value by the 
Group over the medium to long-term.
At the end of 2016, the return to Shareholders of 25% 
since our ‘relisting’ in March 2015 was broadly in line with 
the absolute return in the business over the period. 
However, in common with our peer Group, the share 
price 	 a t 	 t he 	 end 	 o f 	 t he 	 y ear 	 con t inued 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 a 	 ma t erial 	
discount to NAV. Steps to close this discount remain a 
strategic priority for the Board, which believes that the 
resilience of our markets and current attractive pricing 
level relative to NAV present a compelling opportunity for 
new investors.
OUTLOOK
The Group is well positioned to capitalise on the regional 
residential and commercial markets, which continue to 
have strong fundamentals and perform well. Regional 
mark e t s , 	 specifically 	 in 	 t he 	 ar eas 	 in 	 which 	 w e 	 oper a t e , 	
have seen continued government support and 
infrastructure investment, and have not seen the volatility 
experienced in the London and South East property 
mark e t s . 	 F ur t her , 	 housing 	 r emains 	 much 	 mor e 	 a ff ordable .	
We have a strategy for, and a track record of, delivering 
resilient, sustainable value growth and we look to the 
fut ur e 	 wit h 	 con fidence . 	 T o 	 main tain 	 momen t um , 	 it 	 is 	
important that the Group continues to replenish its 
strategic land bank, particularly given the amount of time 
it takes to develop our sites into mature assets. It was 
therefore pleasing that we were able to raise additional 
equity in March 2017 , by way of a share placing, to 
accelerate the acquisition of sites for our future pipeline.
Jonson Cox 
Chairman 
19 April 2017
“We have a dedicated team of skilled and experienced 
professionals who know how to drive value and income 
from our portfolio.”
Jonson Cox - Chairman 12 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OVERVIEW
This continued success lies in our focused strategy, the 
ability of our in-house teams to extract maximum value 
from the portfolio, the underlying strength of the regional 
markets in which we operate and the maintenance of 
excellent working relationships with the key external 
Stakeholders that we work with throughout the 
Company’s value cycle.
Our strategic focus remains unchanged – extracting 
ma ximum 	 v alue 	 fr om 	 our 	 pr edominan t ly 	 br o wn field 	 land 	
portfolio to grow NAV, whilst building our recurring income 
base to meet the operating costs of the business. We do 
this by continuing to use our masterplanning, placemaking 
and technical expertise to transform redundant land into 
places where people want to live and work. 
As our business has grown, we have increased our focus 
on replenishing our strategic land bank to ensure that we 
maintain a pipeline of new sites to continue the value 
growth journey. We have also focused our in-house 
capabilities to build and retain new commercial space in 
our 	 s t r onges t 	 mark e t s , 	 r e flect ing 	 a 	 desir e 	 t o 	 gener a t e 	
long-term income from our assets. This response to the 
continued under-supply of good quality commercial units 
in the regions in which we operate also shows the 
growing maturity of the business.
Our business model is supported by the continued 
strength of our core markets across the North of England 
and the Midlands. Demand for new homes within those 
regions remained consistently strong throughout the year, 
r e flect ed 	 b y 	 t he 	 r a t e 	 o f 	 sales 	 a chie v ed 	 b y 	 our 	 housebuilding 	
partners on our larger sites. The rise of e-tailing and the 
increasing demands of consumers is also driving up 
demand for logistics and distribution space, with a number 
of our sites – such as Logistics North in Bolton and 
Gateway 45 in Leeds – ideally placed to meet that need.
National Government policy continues to support the 
r ede v elopmen t 	 o f 	 br o wn field 	 sit es , 	 as 	 e videnced 	 b y 	 t he 	
recently published Housing White Paper (February 2017). 
We also welcome the UK’s new industrial strategy as a 
lever to improve infrastructure, a critical factor in 
accelerating economic growth in our core regions.
CAPITAL GROWTH
Our Capital Growth team, led by Phil Wilson, has 
continued to deliver value growth and realisations. In 
particular, during 2016 the team secured outline planning 
consents for 65 plots, whilst converting 1,560 plots that 
had a resolution to grant planning into outline consents. 
We also purchased land with consent for 2.64m sq. ft of 
commercial space at Temple Green, Leeds. Following 
this activity, total consented residential plots under 
ownership or management (including sites where we are 
promoting third party interests through Planning 
Promotion Agreements (PPAs)) stand at 9,529 plots and 
consented commercial space on our land at 9.95m sq. ft.
We have live planning applications in the planning system 
for 1,200 new housing plots and 1.92m sq. ft of 
commercial space. Four PPAs were signed during the 
year with the potential to deliver c.500 housing plots, 
bringing the total number of plots promoted through 
PPAs to c.1,100. PPAs are agreements with landowners 
by which Harworth incurs the cost and risk of promoting 
land through planning. If successful, Harworth shares 
some 	 o f 	 t he 	 v alue 	 gain , 	 a f t er 	 firs t 	 r eco v ering 	 it s 	 cos t s , 	
when the land is sold.
On the 450-acre former Thoresby Colliery site in 
Nottinghamshire, consent is being sought for 800 new 
homes alongside 250,000 sq. ft of new commercial 
space. An application has also been submitted for the 
former Kellingley Colliery site in North Yorkshire to deliver 
1.4m sq. ft of new commercial space on a site that 
bene fit s 	 fr om 	 an 	 e xis t ing 	 r ail 	 and 	 canal 	 link . 	 Decisions 	 on 	
bo t h 	 sit es 	 ar e 	 e xpect ed 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 7 .
We have continued to plan carefully whether and when to 
dispose of investment properties to maximise the return 
from our portfolio. In 2016 we achieved receipts in excess 
of book value in all sections of the business, realising 
cash which can be reinvested in bringing other sites and 
acquisitions forward. A total of 619 residential plots were 
sold across 6 major development sites to national and 
regional housebuilders including Taylor Wimpey, Harron 
Homes and Arch Group.
Disposals for commercial uses in 2016 included the sale 
of 43.7 acres at our Logistics North development in 
Bolton to Lidl UK for £22.5m for the Company to set-up 
Chief Executive’s statement
I am pleased to report another robust set of results to Shareholders, reflecting a strong 
year of progress for the business. In 2016, the Group once again delivered a year of double-
digit net asset value (NAV) growth of 12.5% (2015: 18.9%), with a NAV of £334.9m at the 
year-end (2015: £297.7m). EPRA NAV at the end of the year rose to £350.1m, representing a 
13.3% increase over the year (2015: £309.1m). We achieved an operating profit of £45.8m
(1)
 
(2015: £37.9m) with value gains of £43.7m
(2)
 (2015: £36.3m) – ahead of expectations – and profit 
from operations rose to £2.2m (2015: £1.5m).  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 13
its regional distribution headquarters. This deal set a new 
benchmark price per acre for the development and 
marked the sixth key investment at the site in the past 
three years, following previous sales to Aldi, MBDA, Joy 
Global and Exeter Property Group and the signing of a 
forward funding agreement with M&G Real Estate for us 
to construct two new Grade A commercial units totalling 
400,000 sq. ft. As announced just after year end, the 
larger of these units – a 225,000 sq. ft unit known as 
‘Logistics 225’ – was leased to Whistl on a ten-year lease, 
r e flect ing 	 t he 	 s t r engt h 	 o f 	 t he 	 Nor t h 	 W es t 	 logis t ics 	 and 	
distribution market.
To generate similar returns in the future, we are 
continuing to prioritise capital investment on our sites 
with the largest value enhancement potential, including 
the Advanced Manufacturing Park in Rotherham, 
Logistics North in Bolton and Gateway 45 in Leeds, to 
ensure that both land and property is available for 
immediate occupation. This strategic infrastructure 
investment delivers multiple sale points, diversifying risk 
across our portfolio, and during the year, the team 
opened up new sites at Rossington, Ellington and 
Castleford. Such strategic infrastructure investment has 
been complemented by our continued disposal of lower 
value sites – mainly agricultural land with little value add 
potential – to free up management time on our highest 
value-enhancing sites.
INCOME GENERATION
Our Income Generation team, led by Ian Ball, has 
maintained its push for increasingly resilient recurring 
income. This has been achieved by: improving rental 
returns from our expanding business park portfolio; 
increasing rental returns and royalties from energy 
generation, environmental technologies and the 
agricultural portfolio; and deriving income from recycled 
aggregates that arise from the development process 
– 	 t her eb y 	 offse t t ing 	 t he 	 fla gged 	 and 	 mana ged 	 decline 	 in 	
t he 	 sale 	 o f 	 coal 	 fines .
Our Business Space team increased income from our 
business parks in 2016, driven by 32 new and renewed 
commercial lettings in 2016 with an annualised rent roll of 
£663,000. This was supplemented by the acquisition of 
two business parks in the North West during the fourth 
quarter with a combined annualised rent roll of £1.62m. 
Asset management opportunities have already been 
iden t ified 	 t o 	 gr o w 	 t he 	 income 	 and 	 t he 	 underlying 	 asse t 	
v alue 	 o f 	 bo t h 	 sit es 	 in 	 t he 	 fut ur e . 	 Business 	 Spa ce 	 pr ofit 	
from operations in 2016 was £3.8m (2015: £2.2m on an 
underlying basis) and is expected to increase further in 
2017 as we look to sign new leases on a number of new 
units, including our 75,000 sq. ft Helix unit at Gateway 36 
in Barnsley. The weighted average unexpired lease term 
(WAULT) across the portfolio now stands at 7 .5 years 
(2015: 8.3 years).
“Our continued success in unlocking the latent value  
in our portfolio has meant that refilling our strategic 
landbank for future value growth has become an even 
more important part of our strategy.”
Owen Michaelson - Chief Executive
Strong progress was made in driving up income from our 
r ene w able 	 ener gy 	 t enan t s 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 wit h 	 a 	
total of 144.5MW of capacity now installed on our land as 
a result of a net 19.0MW of capacity being energised 
during the year. Demand for new schemes slowed 
following changes to renewables subsidies at the end of 
March, rendering some projects unviable. In light of this, 
management focus within our Natural Resources team 
has now shifted to alternative technologies with better 
short term prospects and governmental support, 
including battery storage facilities that are seen as critical 
to helping balance supply and demand in the UK power 
system.
ACQUISITIONS
Our continued success in unlocking the latent value in 
o u r 	 p o r t f o l i o 	 h a s 	 m e a nt 	 t h a t 	 r efi l l i n g 	 o u r 	 st ra t e g i c 	 l a n d 	
bank for future value growth has become an even more 
important part of our strategy. We expanded our 
Acquisitions team, led by Gary Owens, in 2016 to 
identify further suitable sites and, as a direct result, 
m ad e 	 s i x 	 ac q u i s i t i o n s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 f o r 	 £ 3 1 . 6 m , 	 r efl e c t i n g 	
our desire to supplement our strategic land bank and 
improve the quality of our recurring income base. All of 
our acquisitions were made utilising existing cash 
reserves with completion in each case taking place 
within six weeks of agreeing heads of terms, helping to 
build our reputation for acting swiftly and in a 
straightforward manner. 
Our 	 firs t 	 a cquisit ion 	 w as 	 A dv an ta ge 	 House 	 in 	 R o t herham 	
in 	 Februar y 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 This 	 2 0 , 0 0 0 	 sq . 	 f t 	 office 	 building 	 w as 	
purchased for £2.2m at a net initial yield of 13.3% and is 
fully let to Civica UK on a long-term lease. It is also 
loca t ed 	 a dja cen t 	 t o 	 our 	 fla gship 	 W a v erle y 	 de v elopmen t , 	
thereby solidifying our presence close to Junction 33 of 
the M1. 14 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
In March, we purchased Keyland Developments’ 50% 
share of The Aire Valley Land LLP , a joint venture with 
Evans Property Group, for £8.5m. Aire Valley Land LLP 
owns Gateway 45 Leeds, a 166-acre logistics hub in the 
Leeds City Region Enterprise Zone. The site, adjacent to 
Junct ion 	 45 	 o f 	 t he 	 M 1 , 	 alr ea dy 	 bene fit s 	 fr om 	 out line 	
planning consent for 2.64m sq. ft of commercial space 
for logistics and distribution uses. During the remainder of 
the year we worked with Evans to complete the 
in fr as t ruct ur e 	 w ork s 	 f or 	 t he 	 firs t 	 phase 	 o f 	 de v elopmen t 	
land, thereby allowing the completion of the sale of land 
for a Park and Ride facility to Leeds City Council, before 
relaunching the site as ‘Gateway 45 Leeds’ to improve 
the site’s promotion to third-party logistics and e-tailing 
businesses. We expect this work to bear fruit with new 
deals at the site in 2017 .
Two further key acquisitions in the year were both in the 
North West and made in the fourth quarter, in line with our 
strategy to strengthen our income portfolio and to build 
our presence in the region. In November, we completed 
the acquisition of Moorland Gate business park in Chorley, 
Lancashire for £4.5m. This site comprises 10.75 acres 
with 125,122 sq. ft of built space. It generates a net initial 
yield of 9.53%, with a reversionary yield of 10.4% and 
further asset management and potential development 
oppor t unit ies 	 alr ea dy 	 iden t ified . 	 This 	 w as 	 f ollo w ed 	 b y 	 t he 	
acquisition in December of Four Oaks business park in 
Preston, Lancashire for £13.4m. The site extends across 
19.4 acres with 428,800 sq. ft of built logistics 
warehousing space, with a net initial yield of 8.74% and a 
reversionary yield of 11.4%. Together with our Logistics 
North development, we are beginning to build critical 
mass across our North West portfolio, with all three sites 
located along a corridor of junctions on the M61. 
We recognise the need to replenish and grow the 
Company’s strategic land bank, to maintain delivery of 
our target for NAV growth through the property cycle. 
To that end, we have entered into four option agreements 
to acquire strategic land sites that extend to 
approximately 228 acres, comprising a mixture of 
potential residential and commercial sites located in our 
cor e 	 r egions . 	 Subject 	 t o 	 con firma t ion 	 t hr ough 	 due 	
diligence, these stand the business in good stead as we 
look to grow our portfolio further in 2017 and beyond. 
On 17 March 2017 , we announced a share placing to 
raise £27 .1m (net of expenses) to accelerate the growth of 
our strategic land bank. This is covered in more detail on 
the following page of this report. 
MAINTAINING MOMENTUM
Momentum from 2016 has been carried over into the new 
financial 	 y ear 	 wit h 	 a 	 number 	 o f 	 k e y 	 deals 	 alr ea dy 	
completed or agreed, highlighting the solid fundamentals 
of the property sector in the North of England and the 
Midlands, and the team’s ability to realise value growth in 
our portfolio.
January saw Whistl take a ten-year lease of M&G Real 
Estate’s Logistics 225 unit at Logistics North. This was at 
the benchmark rental level in the North West for industrial 
property of £6 per sq. ft and also triggered a promote fee 
from M&G Real Estate for letting the building within six 
weeks of practical completion. This was followed in 
February by the sale of the next phase of 4.7 acres of 
engineered housing land at Waverley to Avant Homes for 
£2.5m and the exchange of contracts with Keepmoat for 
t he 	 firs t 	 phase 	 o f 	 our 	 Flass 	 L ane 	 de v elopmen t 	 in 	
Castleford. Keepmoat will pay £3.65m for 9.88 acres of 
land, where it plans to build 157 new homes.
With clear growth momentum established and 
maintained across all key parts of the business and the 
maintenance of favourable market conditions – both 
across our sectors and the regions in which we operate 
– 	 we 	 r emain 	 confident 	 in 	 our 	 ability 	 to 	 continue 	 to 	 deliver 	
growth in net asset value, whilst expecting performance 
to remain second-half weighted. We therefore anticipate 
a healthy number of sales and increased development 
spend in 2017.
Our continued strong performance is testament to the 
strength of our core team of around 50 people and our 
achievements would not have materialised without the 
dedication, 	 patience 	 and 	 perseverance 	 of 	 our 	 staff. 	 I 	 thank	
all of our team for their hard work and diligence in making 
the Group what it is today.
Owen Michaelson 
Chief Executive 
19 April 2017
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
Notes:
(1) 
O p e rati n g 	 p rofi t 	 b efo re 	 ex c e pti o n a l 	 i t e ms 	 a n d 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s.
(2)
	 In c re a s e/ ( d e c re a s e ) 	 i n 	 fa i r 	 va l u e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( 20 1 6 : 	 £33.5m ) , 	 p rofi t / ( l o s s ) 	 o n 	 s a l e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( £8.8 m ) 	 to g eth e r 	 w i th 	 oth e r 	 g a i ns, 	
b e i n g 	 ove rag e s 	 ( £0 . 7 m ) , 	 a n d 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s 	 ( £0 . 6 m ) . CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 15
March 2017 equity placing
Replenishing our land and property portfolio, both by securing new 
recurring income streams and growing and expanding our strategic 
land bank, is fundamental to us continuing to deliver value to our 
Shareholders. While we have made good progress in the past two 
years in securing valuable acquisition opportunities, this placing 
enables us to accelerate our acquisition strategy through the funding 
of the purchase of, and investment in, further sites to support the long 
term growth prospects of the business.
Prior to the equity placing, strategic land encompassed approximately 
5% of the value of the Group’ s portfolio, markedly down from 
approximately 15% at the end of 2015, as a result of the Groups 
success at moving this strategic land through the development process.
The need to replenish our landbank:  
our portfolio as at 31 December 2016 
Next 10 
sites
Remaining sites
Waverley
Rossington
Logistics 
North
Gateway 36
Sheburn Rail 
Freight Terminal 
(Gascoigne Wood)
Asfordby
Key
Coalville
Harworth 
Colliery
Prince of 
Wales
Lounge
56%
23% 21%
£400.3m
Strategic Land
Major Developments
Business Space/
Natural Resources
Agriculture & Other
In order to address this, we recently entered into four option agreements 
to acquire, in aggregate, approximately 200 acres of strategic land, the 
masterplans for which are expected to deliver in aggregate over 
1,500 residential plots and c.600,000 sq. ft of new commercial space. 
Approximately £19.2m is required to exercise the options and fund the 
first 	 thr ee 	 years 	 of 	 expenditur e 	 on 	 planning, 	 r emediation 	 and 	
infrastructure works, and further site assembly.
This would increase our strategic land bank to approximately 
2,750 acres assuming the option agreements are exercised following 
success ful 	 con firma t or y 	 due 	 diligence . 	 The 	 op t ion 	 a gr eemen t s 	 ar e 	
expected to generate an internal rate of return in excess of 
management’s target return requirements, being accretive to both 
earnings and net asset value per share in the medium term after taking 
account of the impact of the placing. 
Four further potential strategic land opportunities are also in 
negotiation, to acquire in aggregate up to 407 acres of strategic 
land for both residential and commercial development, requiring 
approximately £15.5m of investment. If pursued, they could be part 
funded by the balance of the net proceeds of the placing, with the 
remainder of any capital requirement being met by the Group’s 
internally generated free cash.
Significant 	 br ownfield 	 development 	 sites 	 and 	 multi-let 	 business 	 parks 	
with asset management opportunities will continue to form the 
backbone 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 acquisitions 	 strategy , 	 firmly 	 r eflecting 	 our 	
confidence 	 in 	 the 	 markets 	 in 	 which 	 we 	 operate 	 to 	 deliver 	 gr owth 	 for 	
Shareholders. Investment in edge of settlement sites and the 
assembly of new land parcels will also be pursued in order to create 
new, large scale communities attractive to both residential and 
commercial customers – such as that achieved at Waverley.
Following the publication of our preliminary results on 6 March 2017, we successfully undertook an equity 
placing that raised £27.1m (net of expenses). This involved placing 29,226,974 new Ordinary Shares 
(representing 9.9% of the Company’s share capital prior to the placing) at a price of 95.0 pence per share 
(representing a discount of approximately 1.6% to the closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on the 
day before the announcement of the placing) to accelerate the continued expansion of our strategic land bank.
Thoresby development, 2016 16 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Capital Growth in 2016
We had another excellent year in 2016, with the Group 
once again delivering a year of double-digit NAV growth 
of 12.5% (2015: 18.9%), with NAV standing at £334.9m at 
the year-end (2015: £297 .7m). Value gains of £43.7m 
(2015: £36.3m) – ahead of expectations – further 
emphasises our ability to transform redundant land into 
developments of lasting value.
STRATEGIC LAND IN 2016
We focused on planning preparation and promotion in 
2016, with a range of applications submitted in the 
second half of the year. These included the two last deep 
coal mining sites in the UK: the 450-acre former Thoresby 
Colliery in Nottinghamshire, where we have sought 
consent for 800 new homes and 250,000 sq. ft of 
employment space; and the 150-acre former Kellingley 
Colliery in North Yorkshire, where we have submitted a 
planning application to deliver 1.4m sq. ft of new 
commercial employment space to make the most of its 
many transport links. Planning decisions on both 
schemes 	 ar e 	 e xpect ed 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 7 .
Elsewhere in the portfolio, we received a planning decision 
notice for our residential development in Coalville, 
Leicestershire to deliver 1,100 new homes as part of a 
wider consortium that will be delivering a total of 
2,700 homes, with this scheme subsequently becoming 
one of our Major Projects moving forward. This was 
supplemented by the receipt of planning consent at the 
f ormer 	 W elbeck 	 Collier y 	 in 	 No t t inghamshir e 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	
of the year for 65 new residential plots and over 
120,000 sq. ft of commercial space. The purchase of 50% 
of Aire Valley Land LLP , covered within the Acquisitions 
section of this Annual Report, also added a further 2.64m 
sq. ft of consented space to our strategic land bank. 
PPAs are also being signed with third-party landowners 
as a source of strategic land and to provide further 
income to the business should a planning consent be 
secured. We signed four PPAs in 2016 with the potential 
to deliver c.500 housing plots, bringing the total number 
of housing plots we are promoting through PPAs to 
c . 1 , 1 0 0 . 	 On 	 t he 	 ba ck 	 o f 	 t he 	 firs t 	 P P A 	 w e 	 signed 	 in 	 2 0 1 4 	
with the Trustees of Warsop Estate for a 30-acre site less 
t han 	 fiv e 	 miles 	 fr om 	 Mans field 	 T o wn 	 Cen t r e , 	 w e 	 submit t ed 	
a planning application for 400 new residential plots in the 
second half of 2016. A planning decision on this 
applica t ion 	 is 	 e xpect ed 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 7 . 	
DELIVERING OUR MAJOR PROJECTS IN 
2016: ENGINEERING, PLOT SALES AND BUILD OUT
Value growth through planning was supplemented by the 
preparation of a number of sites for either the sale of 
engineered land for residential or commercial purposes 
or for retention to increase our income portfolio. With 
demand for residential and commercial land continuing to 
remain strong, Strategic Land and Major Projects 
disposals in 2016 achieved a price over book value with 
the receipts subsequently reinvested in bringing further 
sites in our strategic landbank forward for development.
Whilst the outcome of the European referendum in June 
2016 caused housebuilders to pause the purchase of 
ne w 	 sit es 	 brie fly , 	 t he 	 deals 	 w e 	 signed 	 in 	 t he 	 second 	 half 	 o f 	
t he 	 y ear 	 w er e 	 a 	 r e flect ion 	 o f 	 t he 	 mark e t 	 r e v er t ing 	 ba ck 	 t o 	
normal . 	 I t 	 is 	 also 	 w or t h 	 r e flect ing 	 t ha t 	 t he 	 r e f er endum 	
decision had no bearing on the commercial markets in 
which we operate, with the logistics and industrial sectors 
continuing to perform strongly.
We sold six residential parcels of land to housebuilders in 
2 0 1 6 , 	 t o talling 	 6 1 9 	 plo t s 	 a t 	 fiv e 	 separ a t e 	 sit es . 	 The 	 firs t 	
half of the year saw both available phases at North 
Gawber, Barnsley sold to Avant Homes (174 plots) and 
Harron Homes (141 plots), whilst our landholding at 
Measham, Leicestershire was sold to regional 
housebuilder Cameron Homes (20 plots). The second half 
of the year saw three further sales made, with Harron 
Homes acquiring the third phase of our Prince of Wales 
development in Pontefract (89 plots), Taylor Wimpey 
purchasing the second phase of our Rossington 
development in Doncaster (96 plots) and Arch Group, the 
Nor t h 	 Eas t 	 r egener a t ion 	 Compan y , 	 a cquiring 	 t he 	 firs t 	
phase of our Ellington development (99 plots). 
Key sites with the highest value-add potential are 
increasingly being retained by us. They provide 
opportunities for us to build new commercial units that 
can be retained as new income-producing assets, 
including at the Advanced Manufacturing Park in 
Rotherham, Logistics North in Bolton at Gateway 36 in 
Barnsley. We will however continue to pursue commercial 
land disposals on major developments where the receipt 
allows us to extract optimum value and reinvest in our 
portfolio. This was certainly the case at Logistics North in 
December, when we sold 43.7 acres of prepared land to 
Lidl UK for £22.5m. This sale is covered in further detail 
within the case study on page 18.
The Capital Growth segment of the business continues to focus on maximising value by 
developing the land and property portfolio to its optimum extent, thereby growing NAV. Our core 
skill is to transform underutilised and undervalued land into valuable residential or commercial 
development sites, working closely with local authorities, residents and other key local 
Stakeholders to secure beneficial uses. The strategic imperative for the business is therefore to 
continue the pipeline of value growth and to replenish the portfolio with further land to sustain 
the business. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 17
“We had another excellent year in 2016, with the Group 
once again delivering a year of double-digit NAV growth 
of 12.5%.”
Phil Wilson - Managing Director, Capital Growth
Following all of this activity, total consented residential 
plots under ownership or management (including sites 
where we are promoting third party interests through 
PPAs) stand at 9,529 plots and consented commercial 
space on our land at 9.95m sq. ft.
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2017
Our markets remain robust, putting the business in a 
good position to grow. Demand for residential land 
remains steady, with housebuilders reporting consistent 
plot sales in the North of England and the Midlands. This 
is underpinned by housing starts in the UK continuing to 
be well below acknowledged Government targets, 
meaning the gap between supply and demand continues 
to increase. Demand for well-connected industrial and 
logistics space also remains good, with an under-supply 
of new units of all sizes being reported across the regions. 
With a number of our sites being located close to key 
motorway and principal road junctions, we are well-placed 
to take advantage of this trend.
This solid interest, coupled with the experience and 
expertise of our in-house team, underpins our four-
pronged strategy to grow further the value of the business:
• We will continue with our stated strategy of 
exploiting portfolio opportunities by optimising land 
use and securing planning consents for both 
residential and commercial uses.
• We will also continue to invest in the sites in our 
portfolio with the highest value enhancement 
potential, whilst increasing our points of sale to 
increase value creation and to diversify risk.
• We will invest in the sites with the highest value-add 
potential. This will also provide further outlets for us 
to build new commercial units that can be retained 
as income-producing assets.
• Lower value sites with little development potential will 
continue to be sold to free-up management time further.
Phil Wilson 
Managing Director, Capital Growth 
19 April 2017
CGI of planned Thoresby development, Autumn 2016
New homes at Waverley, Summer 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Capital Growth case study
Logistics North
Logistics North continued to establish itself as one of the North 
of England’s leading logistics and distribution locations, with plot 
sales and new unit completions in 2016 underpinning its status.
Two key milestones were achieved in December 2016. Early 
December saw us practically complete Logistics 225 and Logistics 
175 – two new speculative Grade ‘A’ warehouses totalling 
400,000 sq. ft – on behalf of M&G Real Estate, part of Prudential plc. 
Shortly after year end, Whistl announced its intention to take a ten 
year lease on Logistics 225 at a North West benchmark rent of 
£6 	 per 	 sq . 	 f t 	 p .a . , 	 whils t 	 significan t 	 in t er es t 	 con t inues 	 t o 	 be 	 r egis t er ed 	
in the Logistics 175 unit.
At the end of December, Lidl UK purchased 43.7 freehold acres for 
£22.5m to create a new Regional Distribution Centre (RDC) to service 
its growing number of North West stores. The distribution centre – 
likely to total 500,000 sq. ft – will be built later this year following the 
receipt of detailed planning consent. 
With sales and lettings to Aldi, Lidl, MBDA, Joy Global, Exeter Property 
Group, Greene King and Costa, over half of Logistics North’s 
4,000,000 sq. ft outline consent (received in December 2013) has been 
either built out or committed to be built out.
This strong precedent encouraged us to commit to our own direct 
development in 2017 . We plan to build two units totalling 52,000 sq. ft 
fr om 	 April 	 t o 	 t he 	 same 	 specifica t ion 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 comple t ed 	 a t 	 bo t h 	 t he 	
Advanced Manufacturing Park in Rotherham and Gateway 36 in 
Barnsley, with the units aimed at growing small and medium-sized 
en t erprises 	 t ha t 	 ar e 	 s t ruggling 	 t o 	 find 	 good 	 qualit y 	 spa ce 	 under 	
100,000 sq. ft in the region.
Aerial of Logistics North, Autumn 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 19
KEY FACTS
Location Bolton, Greater Manchester
 
Acreage for commercial development 250 acres
 
Acreage for country park 550 acres
 
Consented sq. ft for commercial 
development
4,000,000 sq. ft
 §
Commercial development built or committed 
to be built
2,059,700 sq. ft
 
Plot purchasers and tenants Aldi, MBDA, Joy Global, Exeter Property 
Group, M&G Real Estate, Lidl UK,  
Greene King and Costa
  20 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Capital Growth case study
Prince of Wales 
The 303-acre former Prince of Wales colliery site, adjoining the 
M62 at Junction 32, was producing 1.5 million tonnes of coal a 
year until 2002. It is now one of our most mature housing 
developments, implementing a vision that will see the site 
become one of West Yorkshire’s largest mixed-use 
developments with housing, employment opportunities and a 
range of amenities for local people.
W e 	 r eceiv ed 	 planning 	 consen t 	 fr om 	 W ak e field 	 Council 	 in 	 December 	
2013 to turn the former pityard into a new development comprising 
917 homes and 21,500 sq. m of employment development, along with 
retail units, cafes, a medical centre, community centre, nursery and 
parkland. Remediation of the site began in December 2013 and 
Phase 1 infrastructure work completed at the end of December 2014, 
supported by a £1.95m Growing Places Fund loan from the Leeds 
City Region to speed up work.
A vant 	 was 	 selected 	 as 	 the 	 first 	 housebuilder 	 for 	 the 	 scheme 	 and 	 they 	
began 	 building 	 the 	 first 	 phase 	 of 	 131 	 homes 	 in 	 January 	 2015. 	 The 	 first 	
residents received their keys by the end of 2015. Harron Homes also 
pur chased 	 the 	 second 	 phase 	 of 	 land 	 in 	 2015, 	 building 	 the 	 first 	 of 	 95 	 new 	
homes. With housing sales progressing beyond its expectations, Harron 
then purchased the third phase of land in the second half of 2016 to 
build a further 89 plots. This phase realised an average plot price of 
£47,361, 	 r eflecting 	 the 	 attraction 	 of 	 the 	 site 	 as 	 a 	 r esidential 	 location.
110 homes have now been built and occupied and we expect to 
complete the full development, with up to 917 homes and associated 
facilities, within the next ten years.
The former spoil heap next to the pit yard will also become a new 
country park, providing new public open space for the community. 
Alongside nearby Pontefract Park and Pontefract Racecourse, this will 
provide an attractive gateway into Pontefract. It also provides the 
engineered road corridor for the Northern link road, which was 
completed in February 2015 and is a central piece of infrastructure for 
the future growth of Pontefract.
Harron Homes constructing at Prince of Wales, Spring 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 21
KEY FACTS
Location Pontefract, West Yorkshire
 
Acreage of development 303 acres, including former spoil heap
 
Planning consent in place 917 homes
265,000 sq. ft of commerical development
 
Housebuilders Harron Homes, Avant Homes
 §
Total number of plots bought by 
housebuilders/number of homes built
317/110
  22 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Income Generation in 2016
The Income Generation segment of the business continues to focus on creating, managing and 
retaining selected land and property assets to generate value growth and a long-term recurring 
income stream. Our income-producing assets make up a significant part of our property portfolio 
and we adopt a range of asset management techniques to maximise the income it generates.
As well as contributing to NAV growth it is our aim that this 
income is also used to cover:
• the running costs of the business (including strategic 
land promotion);
• our interest costs; and ultimately
• tax; and
• a sustainable and rising dividend to Shareholders.
Pr ofit 	 fr om 	 operations 	 incr eased 	 in 	 2016 	 to 	 £2.2m 	
(2015: 	 £1.5m), 	 r eflecting 	 our 	 strategy 	 of 	 building 	 a 	 mor e 	
resilient income base by building new commercial space to 
lease, purchasing income-producing assets and increasing 
the number of rents derived from low-carbon energy 
developments.
BUSINESS SPACE IN 2016
Our Business Space portfolio grew in 2016, now 
comprising a total of 15 business parks and development 
sites where we receive both rent and service charges. 
These sites comprise a total of 1.7m sq. ft of built space 
and 459 acres of development land, with 93% of our 
por t f olio 	 classified 	 as 	 ‘ indus t rial ’ .
Income from our Business Space portfolio grew 
commensur a t ely , 	 wit h 	 Business 	 Spa ce 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	
operations rising to £3.8m (2015: £2.2m). We now have 
108 individual tenants across the portfolio and a portfolio 
WAULT of 7 .5 years, with 87% of our space now let. This 
was driven by three principal management actions:
• 32 new and renewed commercial lettings in 2016 with 
an annualised rent roll of £663,000. These new 
lettings included Barnsley Council taking a 25 year 
head lease on three new units totalling 65,000 sq. ft 
at Gateway 36, with two sub-leases already agreed 
and in place by the end of March 2017 – thus proving 
the reversionary value in the head lease;
• the acquisition of two business parks in the North 
West during the fourth quarter with a combined 
annualised rent roll of £1.6m, covered in more detail in 
the Acquisitions section. Asset management 
oppor t unit ies 	 ha v e 	 alr ea dy 	 been 	 iden t ified 	 t o 	 gr o w 	 t he 	
income and the underlying asset value of both sites in 
the future; and
• the direct build of approximately 600,000 sq. ft of new 
industrial space between 2014 and 2016, with eight 
units across three sites – including 400,000 sq. ft built 
on behalf of M&G Real Estate at Logistics North. 
A further c.106,000 sq. ft of units are now under 
construction at the AMP in Rotherham and Logistics 
North in Bolton. 
NATURAL RESOURCES IN 2016
W e 	 also 	 r e tain 	 a 	 significan t 	 na t ur al 	 r esour ces 	 por t f olio 	
across our geographies. This comprises rent and 
royalties from low-carbon energy developments including 
solar farms, wind farms and coal mine methane 
extraction operations, alongside Short-Term Operating 
Reserve (STOR) operations, tipping and composting 
works and our agricultural portfolio. This portfolio 
generates a long-term base rent of c.£2m and a royalty 
income of c.£2m.
We grew income from renewables in 2016, with a further 
ne t 	 1 9MW 	 o f 	 capa cit y 	 ins talled 	 on 	 our 	 land 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	
of 2016. Further information is provided within the case 
study that follows. The team also secured a new letting at 
Meriden in Warwickshire, with Rebellion Biomass LLP 
taking a 25 year lease for 7 acres to develop a state-of-
the-art biomass energy and waste water treatment 
facility. Construction of the new unit began in 
October 2016, with the facility set to open in 2017 .
Changes to Government subsidies introduced on 1 April 
2016 have meant that a number of our prospective 
schemes 	 ar e 	 curr en t ly 	 deemed 	 t o 	 be 	 financially 	 un viable , 	
hence the remainder of the year saw the team developing 
proposals to tap into alternative technologies that have 
strong Governmental support, including the nascent 
battery storage market. 
OPERATIONS IN 2016
Income from the Operations business comprises revenue 
fr om 	 the 	 r ecycling 	 and 	 sale 	 of 	 coal 	 fines, 	 aggr egates 	 and 	
scrap that are by-products from the development process. 
Due 	 to 	 r egulatory 	 changes 	 signalling 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 coal-fir ed 	
power 	 stations 	 by 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 2025, 	 the 	 sale 	 of 	 coal 	 fines 	
declined in 2016 – thus reinforcing our decision to make a 
concerted 	 effort 	 to 	 drive 	 income 	 fr om 	 other 	 sour ces.
Coal 	 fines 	 sales 	 ha v e 	 no t 	 disappear ed 	 comple t ely 	
however, with income continuing to be generated from 
the supply to DRAX power station in North Yorkshire and 
Ra t cliff e 	 po w er 	 s ta t ion 	 in 	 No t t inghamshir e . 	 I ncome 	 also	
continued to be generated from the sale of aggregates  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 23
“Our core markets remain robust and we are confident that 
we can grow our recurring income base further in 2017.”
Ian Ball - Executive Director, Income Generation
that are nominally by-products from the demolition and 
remediation of a number of our sites.
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2017
As with Capital Growth, our core markets remain robust 
and 	 w e 	 ar e 	 con fiden t 	 t ha t 	 w e 	 can 	 gr o w 	 our 	 r ecurring 	
income base further in 2017 . Demand for well-connected 
industrial and logistics space remains good owing to an 
under-supply of new units. Positive interest remains for 
multi-energy schemes across a number of our sites, to 
address current system imbalances. We are aiming to 
main tain 	 coal 	 fines 	 sales 	 in 	 t he 	 medium - t erm , 	 giv en 	 t he 	
required blend of power sources needed to keep the 
lights on in the UK.
We retain a clear strategy to increase our income base 
and improve its quality:
• o u r 	 f o c u s 	 o n 	 eff e c t i v e 	 a s s et 	 m a n ag e m e nt 	 w i l l 	 r e m a i n 	
in place to drive further value and income from our 
present portfolio, including further reducing our 
vacancy rate and regearing leases as appropriate;
• we will continue to progress selected direct 
developments to ‘move up the value curve’ and 
deliver long-term income on our highest value and 
best connected sites, including the AMP in 
Rotherham, Logistics North in Bolton and Gateway 
45 in Leeds;
• we will also look to grow our recurring income by 
identifying additional income producing acquisitions;
• Natural Resources management time will continue to 
focus on driving income from well-supported new 
technologies to address energy imbalances, 
including battery storage, whilst progressing 
planned existing schemes within our pipeline;
• we will look to secure larger contracts from our 
e x i st i n g 	 c o a l 	 fi n e s 	 c u st o m e r s 	 – 	 D R A X 	 a n d 	 U n i p e r 	
( R a t c l i ff e ) 	 – 	 t o 	 b u i l d 	 a 	 m o r e 	 r e s i l i e nt 	 O p e ra t i o n s 	
business in the short-term; and
• our Business Space team will continue to explore 
property venture transactions on our most valuable 
sites in order to capture development management, 
asset managment and promotion fees from third 
parties.
Ian Ball 
Executive Director, Income Generation 
19 April 2017
Construction of new unit at AMP , March 2017
Bilsthorpe Wind Farm, Spring 2016 24 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Income Generation case study
Gateway 36
Our income generating portfolio has benefited from excellent 
progress at our Gateway 36 development in Barnsley, adjacent 
to Junction 36 of the M1 in Yorkshire.
Barnsley Council took a 25-year head lease on three units totalling 
65,000 sq. ft on 25 February 2016, ready to sub-let to small and 
medium - siz ed 	 t enan t s . 	 I t s 	 firs t 	 t enan t , 	 T alurit 	 UK 	 Limit ed , 	 a 	 wir e 	 r ope 	
manufacturer, took a long-term lease on the largest unit – totalling 
30,000 sq. ft – in February 2017 , with healthcare manufacturer, Esco, 
taking a long-lease on the second unit. There is strong demand for the 
other available unit. 
We achieved practical completion of a further 75,000 sq. ft directly 
developed unit, known as ‘Helix’, in September 2016 ready for 
immediate occupation. Construction costs were funded in large part 
t hr ough 	 t he 	 She ffield 	 Cit y 	 Region 	 JE SS IC A 	 loan 	 fund 	 and 	 w e 	 e xpect 	
to let this unit over forthcoming months.
We also practically completed a 4,700 sq. ft fast-food drive-thru unit 
on the same day as ‘Helix’ – with a lease granted to Fieldrose Limited 
for the unit to be converted into a KFC and Taco Bell. Both operations 
opened in October. Finally we sold a further plot to Greene King to 
develop a new ‘Farmhouse Inn’ which is also now open. There is now 
just 1.63 acres of land remaining to be developed at the site for 
roadside, retail or leisure uses.
The success of Phase 1 underpins our desire to bring forward the 
development of Phases 2 and 3 as part of a future planning 
application by 2019. These phases could deliver up to 1.1m sq. ft of 
further commercial space, subject to planning consent.
Aerial of Gateway 36, Autumn 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 25
KEY FACTS
Location Barnsley, South Yorkshire
 
Acreage for Phase 1 commercial 
development
17.4 acres
 
Consented sq. ft for Phase 1 commercial  
development
198,056 sq. ft
 
Total sq. ft built on site/sq. ft of units built by 
Harworth as part of Phase 1
157 ,154 sq. ft/144,700 sq. ft
 §
Tenants already signed up Barnsley Metropolitan Borough Council, 
Fieldrose Limited (KFC and Taco Bell)
 
Proposed sq. ft for Phase 2 and 3 
commercial development
1,100,000 sq. ft
  26 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Income Generation case study
Renewables
Income from our portfolio was supplemented by rent from two 
major renewables schemes that became operational on our land 
in 2016, bringing the total number of live solar and wind schemes 
within the portfolio to 14, with 75.8MW of capacity installed.
The two schemes that became operational in 2016 are:
• a 4.8MW solar farm at the former Oxcroft coal disposal point in 
Derbyshire, developed in partnership with Anesco. This facility 
went live in March 2016; and 
• an 	 1 8MW 	 wind 	 far m , 	 de v e lope d 	 in 	 par t ne rship 	 wit h 	 In finis , 	 on 	 t he 	
site of a restored, former open-cast coal mine near Widdrington 
Village, Northumberland. This facility became operational in 
June 2016. 
A 5MW solar farm is also under construction by First Renewables 
close to the former Kellingley Colliery in North Yorkshire, which is 
expected to complete in 2017 . Our solar and wind portfolio forms a 
significan t 	 par t 	 o f 	 our 	 Na t ur al 	 Resour ces 	 por t f olio 	 t ha t 	 has 	 a 	 t o tal 	
installed capacity of 144.5MW. 
Oxcroft Solar Farm, Spring 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 27
KEY FACTS
Location of operational solar projects Askern, Thorne (both Doncaster, 
South Yorkshire)
Bilsthorpe, Gedling, Welbeck (Nottinghamshire)
Coton Park, Arkwright, Oxcroft (Derbyshire)
 
Location of operational wind projects Arkwright (Derbyshire)
Bilsthorpe (Nottinghamshire)
Ellington, North Steads (Northumberland)
Lounge (Leicestershire)
Shafton (South Yorkshire)
 
Total installed capacity 75.8MW
 
Potential future capacity 17 .5MW
 §
T o tal 	 po t en t ial 	 capa cit y 	 a cr oss 	 all 	 iden t ified 	
sites
93.3MW
  28 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Acquisitions in 2016
An important part of our strategy is to replenish our property portfolio to ensure the 
sustainable growth of the business, particularly given that not all of our 22,000 acres has 
development potential. Significant brownfield development sites, edge of settlement, strategic 
land opportunities or multi-let business parks with asset management opportunities form the 
backbone of our acquisitions strategy, with a dedicated team now in place to deliver it.
We made six acquisitions in the year for £31.6m in 
aggr egate, 	 r eflecting 	 our 	 desir e 	 to 	 supplement 	 our 	 strategic 	
land bank and improve the quality of our recurring income 
base. These acquisitions added 244 acres to our strategic 
landbank, whilst adding 3.54m sq. ft of consented and 
proposed commercial space to our portfolio alongside a 
further £2m of recurring income per annum. All of our 
acquisitions were made utilising existing cash reserves with 
completion in the majority of cases taking place within six 
weeks of agreeing heads of terms, helping to build our 
reputation for acting swiftly and in a straightforward manner 
that stands us in good stead to make further purchases. 
KEY ACQUISITIONS MADE IN 2016
We made four key acquisitions in 2016 that blended both 
Capital Growth and Income Generation opportunities.
Advantage House, Rotherham. 	 This 	 20,000 	 sq. 	 ft 	 office 	
building was purchased for £2.2m at a net initial yield of 
13.3% and is fully let to Civica UK on a long-term lease. It is 
also located adjacent, and forms part of the gateway, to our 
flagship 	 W averley 	 development 	 ther eby 	 solidifying 	 our 	
presence close to Junction 33 of the M1. We subsequently 
moved into Advantage House August 2016 and it is now 
our 	 headquarters 	 and 	 r egister ed 	 office.
Gateway 45, Leeds. In March, we purchased Keyland 
Developments’ 50% share of The Aire Valley Land LLP , a 
joint venture with Evans Property Group, for £8.5m: a key 
strategic land purchase. Aire Valley Land LLP owns 
Gateway 45 Leeds, a 166-acre logistics hub in the Leeds 
City Region Enterprise Zone. The site, adjacent to Junction 
45 	 of 	 the 	 M1, 	 alr eady 	 benefits 	 fr om 	 outline 	 planning 	 consent 	
for 2.64m sq. ft of commercial space for logistics and 
distribution uses. Our reputation for swift delivery at Logistics 
North played an extremely important role in convincing 
Keyland that we were a suitable party to acquire its share in 
the venture, alongside being price competitive and 
demonstrating a thorough understanding of how to acquire 
an interest in a dynamic, corporate property vehicle. Further 
information is provided within the case study overleaf.
Moorland Gate Business Park, Lancashire.  
In November, we completed the acquisition of Moorland 
Gate Business Park in Chorley, Lancashire for £4.5m in 
order to boost our income portfolio. This site comprises 
10.75 acres with 125,122 sq. ft of built space, generating a 
net initial yield of 9.53% with a reversionary yield of 10.4%. 
Further asset management and potential development 
opportunities 	 have 	 alr eady 	 been 	 identified, 	 including 	 
the regearing of a number of leases and a further 2 acres 
with development opportunities.
Four Oaks Business Park, Lancashire. 	 Our 	 final 	 pur chase 	
of the year was Four Oaks Business Park in Preston, 
Lancashire for £13.4m to further improve the quality of our 
income portfolio and to grow our presence in the strong 
North West market. Purchased in December following an 
off-market 	 negotiation, 	 the 	 site 	 extends 	 acr oss 	 19.4 	 acr es	
with 428,800 sq. ft of built logistics warehousing space, with 
a net initial yield of 8.74% and a reversionary yield of 11.4%. 
This purchase is covered in further detail in the case study 
that follows.
We also made two other smaller acquisitions in the year to 
further increase our strategic landholding. In February 2016, 
we purchased 47 acres of greenbelt land at Wingates in 
Bolton for £470,000. The site, which sits close to Junction 5 
of the M61, could potentially deliver 1.6m sq. ft of new 
logistics space in the future should it be formally designated 
within the Greater Manchester Spatial Framework (GMSF) 
and is viewed as a successor site for our highly successful 
Logistics North development. In April 2016, we also 
purchased 5 acres of land at Potland Burn, Northumberland 
for £855,000 in order to capture income from SITA’s 
in-vessel composting facility, further improving the quality of 
our recurring income base.
As previously explained within the section on our March 
2017 equity placing, we have also recently entered into four 
option agreements to acquire, in aggregate, approximately 
200 acres of strategic land. These sites could deliver in 
aggregate over 1,500 residential plots and 600,000 sq. ft of 
new commercial space. Two of the sites – Bewshill Farm in 
Bolton and land at Chatterley Valley in Stoke – are adjacent 
to our Logistics North and Chatterley Valley commercial 
developments, respectively.
Work was also supplemented by the signing of four PPAs to 
promote 59 acres of land for residential uses, which could 
deliver c. 500 plots subject to the successful receipt of 
planning consent. As stated elsewhere in this report, PPAs 
allow the business to leverage its planning expertise to 
secure new income streams. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 29
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2017
We have an annual target of acquiring land with the ability 
to deliver over 1,000 residential units and over 1m sq. ft of 
employment land, translating to over 200 acres of net 
developable land. Whilst this target is a challenging one, 
our strengthened Acquisitions team increased the number 
of potential opportunities open to us in 2016, allowing the 
targeting of a blend of short, medium and long-term 
opportunities to strengthen our development pipeline. 
There are an abundance of good opportunities 
available t o	H a r w o r t h	a c r o s s	i t s	c o r e	r e g i o n s ,	s p e c i fi c a l l y	
within our target growth areas of the Midlands and North 
West. Our future success is supported by our track 
record of completing thorough due diligence quickly and 
e ffi c i e n t l y ,	i n c l u d i n g	o u r	a b i l i t y	t o	d r a w	o n	a	v a r i e t y	o f	
deal structures to design transactions to the mutual 
b e n e fi t	o f	b o t h	p a r t i e s .	O u r	a c q u i s i t i o n s	s t r a t e g y	w i l l	
make the most of our experience delivering major 
p r o j e c t s	a c r o s s	t h e	l e g a c y	c o a l fi e l d	p o r t f o l i o	a n d	o u r	
track record of investing over £55m in new acquisitions 
over the last two years, to secure new opportunities 
across the following three key areas: 
• The	pur chase	of	major	br ownfield	land	development	
opportunities, including distressed land sales, 
surplus government estate disposals and the 
anticipated	closur e	of	coal-fir ed	power	stations.	
These sites underpin our strategy and will maximise 
the expertise and track record within the team, 
delivering value returns through value add initiatives. 
• Strategic promotion of edge of settlement sites. We 
intend to grow our strategic land portfolio through 
PPAs and options, targeting edge of settlement sites 
that can be promoted through the local development 
plan process. 
• The purchase of income producing multi-let business 
parks. We remain committed to strengthening our 
recurring income base by acquiring multi-let business 
parks	that	offer	opportunities	to	add	value	thr ough	
asset management and development, in a similar 
manner to Moorland Gate and Four Oaks. 
Gary Owens 
Director, Acquisitions 
19 April 2017 
“There are an abundance of good opportunities available 
to Harworth across its core regions, specifically within 
our target growth areas of the Midlands and North West.”
Gary Owens, Director, Acquisitions
Sinfin	Business	park	(2015	pur chase),	Spring	2016
Moorland Gate Business Park, Autumn 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Acquisitions case study
Gateway 45, Leeds
In March 2016, Harworth completed the acquisition of 
Keyland Developments’ 50% share in Aire Valley Land LLP for 
£8.5m. Aire Valley Land LLP is a joint venture with Evans 
Property Group which owns Gateway 45, Leeds’ largest live 
commercial development.
The acquisition was wholly funded through existing cash reserves. 
O u r	b i d	w a s	u l t i m a t e l y	s u c c e s s f u l	d u e	t o	o u r	s i g n i fi c a n t	e x p e r i e n c e	
and complementary skills in bringing forward logistics and 
distribution development, with Logistics North in Bolton held up as 
a key exemplar scheme. 
The site is adjacent to Junction 45 of the M1 and is viewed as a 
major logistics and industrial development site. It extends to 166 
acres and has an outline planning consent for 2.64m sq. ft of 
c o m m e r c i a l	s p a c e .	G a t e w a y	4 5	L e e d s	b e n e fi t s	f r o m	G o v e r n m e n t	
Enterprise Zone status and also sits adjacent to Skelton Grange – 
the 162-acre former power station we purchased in November 2014 
w h i c h	a l s o	b e n e fi t s	f r o m	a n	e m p l o y m e n t	c o n s e n t .
We will be working with Evans Property Group to deliver a commercial 
scheme 	 o f 	 na t ional 	 significance , 	 building 	 on 	 our 	 pr e vious 	 success 	 a t 	
Logistics North in Bolton and the AMP in Rotherham, to deliver the 
logistics space that is in short supply across the North of England. To 
accelerate development at the site, we announced our intention to 
construct two new units, totalling 157 ,500 sq. ft of space, in 2017 . 
This 	 f ollo w ed 	 con firma t ion 	 o f 	 our 	 second 	 occupier 	 in 	 Sep t ember , 	 wit h 	
CJ Stern committing to a 1.2 acre plot at the site to incorporate a BP 
pe t r ol 	 filling 	 s ta t ion 	 wit h 	 t hr ee 	 HG V 	 and 	 f our 	 v ehicle 	 pumps 	 along 	 wit h 	
a 2,000 sq. ft Spar convenience store. It joins Leeds City Council, 
which is constructing a new park and ride facility that is due to 
practically complete in 2017 .
Aerial of Gateway 45 Leeds, Autumn 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 31
KEY FACTS
Location Leeds, West Yorkshire
 
Acreage for entire development 166 acres
 
Consented sq. ft 2,640,000 sq. ft
 
Sq. ft of units planned to be built by Aire 
Valley Land LLP in 2017
157 ,500 sq. ft
 §
Tenants already signed up Leeds City Council, CJ Stern
 
Largest unit that could be accommodated at 
Gateway 45 Leeds
515,000 sq. ft
  32 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Acquisitions case study
Four Oaks business park
Our fourth major acquisition of 2016 was Four Oaks business park 
in Preston, Lancashire for £13.4m. The site was purchased to 
strengthen our income portfolio and to expand our presence in the 
strong North West market, following on from our acquisition in 
November of Moorland Gate business park in Chorley. 
As with Gateway 45 Leeds, the acquisition was wholly funded through 
existing cash reserves. The completion also took place within six weeks 
of agreeing heads of terms with FDC (Holdings) Limited, thus further 
strengthening our reputation for fast, no-nonsense delivery regardless of 
the nature of the acquisition.
The site extends across 19.4 acres with 428,800 sq. ft of built logistics 
warehousing space, sitting at the intersection of Junction 9 of the 
M61, Junctions 29 and 30 of the M6 and Junction 2 of the M65. The 
freehold purchase represented a Net Initial Yield of 8.74% with a 
reversionary yield of 11.39%, a WAULT of 6.44 years and a low capital 
value of £31.30 per sq. ft.
Four Oaks Business Park is a multi-let investment comprising six 
lettings. The Park is currently fully let and tenants include FDC (Holdings) 
Limited, Bosal Automotive and H Parkinson Haulage. There are further 
asset management and development opportunities that we will look to 
capture in 2017 and beyond, including lease re-gears to conservative 
ERVs of £3.75 per sq. ft and the potential development of a further 
0.5 acres of roadside uses.
Four Oaks Business Park, Autumn 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 33
KEY FACTS
Location Preston, Lancashire
 
Built space 428,800 sq. ft
 
Purchase price £13.4m
 
Net Initial Yield/Reversionary Yield 8.74%/11.39%
 §
Tenants already signed up FDC (Holdings) Limited, Bosal Automotive  
and H Parkinson Haulage
 
Further asset management opportunities Lease re-gears; potential development of 
further land for roadside uses
  34 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Financial review
The Group delivered another set of strong results for the financial year across both segments of our business, 
Capital Growth and Income Generation. NAV increased to £334.9m as at 31 December 2016, which is a 12.5% 
increase on NAV at 31 December 2015 (£297.7m). EPRA NAV increased by 13.3% to £350.1m (2015: £309.1m).
OVERVIEW
Revenue from operations rose to £33.7m (2015: £13.2m), largely as a result of the recognition of pass-through construction costs and 
development fee income of £16.1m (2015: £1.3m) arising from the construction of two industrial units at Logistics North which were 
forward funded by M&G Real Estate. Revenue also increased as a result of increased rent from business parks, and rent and royalties from 
lo w -carbon 	 ener gy 	 sit es , 	 albeit 	 some wha t 	 offse t 	 b y 	 a 	 decline 	 in 	 coal 	 fines 	 r e v enues . 	
Oper a t ing 	 pr ofit 	 be f or e 	 e x cep t ionals 	 w as 	 £ 45 . 8m
(1)
 (2015: £37 .9m) largely as a result of revaluation gains of £34.8m
(2)
	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £2 5 . 0m ) , 	 pr ofit 	
on 	 disposals 	 o f 	 £ 8 . 9m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 1 1 . 4 m ) 	 and 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 oper a t ions 	 o f 	 £2 . 2 m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 1 . 5 m ) . 	 E x cep t ional 	 it ems 	 ne t t ed 	 t o 	 £nil 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 char ge 	 o f 	
£2 . 9m ) 	 lar gely 	 r ela t ing 	 t o 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 lega c y 	 a ct ivit ies . 	 P r ofit 	 be f or e 	 ta x 	 w as 	 £ 43 . 5 m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 7 7 . 6m ) , 	 wit h 	 2 0 1 5 	 bene fit ing 	 fr om 	 a 	 gain 	 on 	
bargain purchase of £44.2m.
The comparative statutory results for 2015 are complicated by the acquisition and fundraising of March 2015 associated with the 
re-acquisition of 75.1% of the shares in HEPGL, which led to the gain on bargain purchase of £44.2m. In addition, a 1 for 10 share 
consolida t ion 	 occurr ed 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 Consequen t ly , 	 our 	 r esult s 	 ar e 	 se t 	 out 	 belo w 	 on 	 bo t h 	 a 	 s ta t ut or y 	 and 	 underlying 	 basis . 	
The 	 table 	 belo w 	 sho w s 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 s ta t ut or y 	 oper a t ing 	 pr ofit , 	 be f or e 	 e x cep t ional 	 it ems , 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 	 r econciled 	 t o 	 t he 	 underlying 	 oper a t ing 	
performance for 2015, and set against the results for 2016.
2016
Harworth 
Group plc
2015
Harworth  
Group plc
Underlying
2015
Harworth 
Group plc
Underlying  
Pre-acquisition
2015
Fair value  
adjustments
2015
Harworth  
Group plc
Twelve months to December £m £m £m £m £m
 
Revenue 33.7 16.7 (3.3)  (0.3)  13.2
Cost of sales (20.9)  (7.9)  1.9 – (6.0)  Overheads (10.5)  (6.8)  1.1 – (5.7)  Other operating expense (0.1)  – – – –
 
Profit/(loss) from operations 2.2 2.1 (0.3)  (0.3)  1.5
Valuation gain/(loss) 34.2 28.9 (4.8)  – 24.1
Pr ofit/(loss)	fr om	disposals 8.9 11.5 (0.1)  – 11.4
Pension (charge)/credit (0.1)  0.1 – – 0.1
Shar e	of	pr ofit	of	associate	 
and joint ventures
0.6 – 0.9 – 0.9
 
Operating profit/(loss), before exceptionals 45.8 42.6 (4.3)  (0.3)  37.9
 
N ot e : 	 T h e re 	 a re 	 m i n o r 	 d i ffe re n c e s 	 o n 	 s o m e 	 tota l s 	 d u e 	 to 	 ro u n d i n g
UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE
The 	 Gr oup 	 r ecorded 	 r e v enues 	 o f 	 £ 33 . 7 m 	 in 	 2 0 1 6 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 1 6 . 7 m ) 	 comprising 	 r en tal 	 and 	 r o y alt y 	 income 	 t oge t her 	 wit h 	 sales 	 o f 	 coal 	 fines 	 and 	
salv a ge . 	 The 	 significan t 	 incr ease 	 in 	 2 0 1 6 	 r e v enues 	 r e flect ed 	 £ 1 6 . 1 m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 1 . 3m ) 	 in 	 r espect 	 o f 	 con t r a ct 	 w ork 	 on 	 t he 	 cons t ruct ion 	 o f 	 unit s 	
at Logistics North which were forward funded by M&G Real Estate. These units were completed in December 2016. As Harworth has 
been acting on behalf of M&G Real Estate, the associated revenue and cost of sales are pass-through amounts at the same level except 
for the recognition of a construction management fee of £0.5m. Further “promote” fees will be recognised on each of the two units from 
2017 onwards if Harworth is successful in letting the units quickly, at favourable rental levels and to occupiers with appropriate covenants. 
The larger 225,000 sq. ft unit was let to Whistl in January 2017 , only six weeks after the building was practically completed and a promote 
fee will be recognised in 2017 . The smaller 175,000 sq. ft unit is being actively marketed. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 35
The table below shows the results of the business split between Capital Growth, Income Generation and central overheads:
Capital  
Growth 
£m
Income  
Generation
£m
Central  
overheads 
£m
FY 2016  
Total
£m
FY 2015  
Total 
£m
 
Revenue 16.3 17.4 – 33.7 16.7
Cost of sales (16.0)  (4.9)  – (20.9)  (7.8)  Overheads (1.8)  (1.5)  (7.3)  (10.6)  (6.8)  Other operating expense – (0.1)  – (0.1)  –
v
(Loss)/profit from operations (1.5)  10.9 (7.3)  2.2 2.1
Valuation gain 24.2 10.0 – 34.2 28.9
Pr ofit	fr om	disposals 7.6 1.3 – 8.9 11.5
Pension (charge)/credit – – (0.1)  (0.1)  0.1
Shar e	of	pr ofit	of	associate	and	joint	ventur es – 0.6 – 0.6 –
v
Operating profit including joint ventures, 
before exceptionals 30.2 22.7 (7.2)  45.8 42.6
v
N ot e : 	 T h e re 	 a re 	 m i n o r 	 d i ffe re n c e s 	 o n 	 s o m e 	 tota l s 	 d u e 	 to 	 ro u n d i n g
Total overheads, which include the overhead costs of the Capital Growth and Income Generation segments and central costs, amounted 
t o 	 £ 1 0 . 6m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £6 . 8m ) . 	 The 	 incr ease 	 in 	 cos t s 	 r e flect ed : 	 an 	 incr eased 	 a ccrual 	 f or 	 t he 	 E x ecut iv e 	 L ong 	 T erm 	 I ncen t iv e 	 P lan 	 r e flect ing 	
con t inued 	 NA V 	 out per f ormance ; 	 a 	 number 	 o f 	 one-off 	 cos t s 	 associa t ed 	 wit h 	 t he 	 shar e 	 consolida t ion , 	 capital 	 r educt ion 	 and 	 r ecruit men t ; 	 as	
w ell 	 as 	 incr eased 	 s ta ffing 	 and 	 business 	 cos t s 	 r e flect ing 	 gr ea t er 	 and 	 mor e 	 pr oduct iv e 	 oper a t ional 	 a ct ivit y .
V alue 	 gains , 	 which 	 comprise 	 r e v alua t ion 	 gains 	 and 	 pr ofit 	 on 	 disposals , 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 	 and 	 2 0 1 6 	 ar e 	 se t 	 out 	 belo w :
£m
2016
2015 
Underlying
 
Profit on disposal
Revaluation gains
Total
 
Management Market
 
Major Developments 6.8 8.7 3.4 18.9 21.0
Strategic Land 0.7 10.8 1.3 12.8 4.7
Business Space 0.1 5.7 0.9 6.7 6.9
Natural Resources 0.0 4.0 1.2 5.2 5.4
Agricultural Land 1.2 0.0 (1.1) 0.1 2.4
v
Total 8.8 29.2 5.7 43.7 40.4
v
The 	 Gr oup 	 ma de 	 sales 	 o f 	 £5 8 . 9m 	 in 	 2 0 1 6 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £5 1 . 1 m ) , 	 including 	 £ 3 . 4 m 	 o f 	 de f err ed 	 consider a t ion , 	 wit h 	 pr ofit 	 on 	 disposal 	 o f 	 £ 8 . 9m 	
(2015: £11.5m). The proceeds were split between residential serviced plots (£20.5m), commercial development (£26.8m) and other, 
essen t ially 	 a gricult ur al 	 land , 	 ( £ 1 1 . 6m ) . 	 All 	 segmen t s 	 o f 	 t he 	 business 	 ma de 	 a 	 pr ofit 	 on 	 disposal 	 wit h 	 t he 	 lar ges t 	 pr ofit 	 on 	 disposal 	 r esult ing 	
from the sale of 43.7 acres at Logistics North to Lidl UK for £22.5m.
The Group achieved revaluation gains of £34.9m
(2)
 (2015: £28.9m). In conjunction with our 
v aluers , 	 BNP 	 P aribas 	 and 	 Sa vills , 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 split 	 t hese 	 gains 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 t he 	 con t ribut ion 	 fr om 	
management actions, £29.2m, and market movement, £5.7m. Whilst there is a degree of 
subjectivity in this split, it highlights that the majority of the value gains come from 
mana gemen t 	 a ct ions . 	 The 	 mark e t 	 elemen t 	 o f 	 r e v alua t ion 	 gains 	 includes 	 t he 	 e ff ect s 	 o f	
2016 stamp duty charges, forecast to have impacted values across the portfolios by 
£2.9m. The principal 2016 revaluation gains across the divisions were as follows:
• M a j o r 	 D e v e l o p m e nt s 	 – 	 H e a l t h y 	 p r ofi t 	 o n 	 d i s p o s a l 	 f r o m 	 L i d l 	 U K 	 a t 	 L o g i st i c s 	
North. Improved masterplan and tenant interest at Wheatley Hall Road, new 
option agreement at Chatterley Valley, and cost savings at Harworth and 
Flass Lane; 
• Strategic Land – Signing of S106 and collaboration agreement at 
Coalville. Planning application submitted at Thoresby;
• Business Space – Completion of pre-let and direct development at 
Gateway 36. Improved lettings at other sites;
• Natural Resources – New lettings, particularly at Meriden; and
• Agricultural Land – Reduced land values predominantly on 
former surface mine sites.
The 	 r esult ing 	 underlying 	 oper a t ing 	 pro fit	 for 	 t he 	 Group , 	 be for e	
e x cep t ional 	 it ems , 	 w as 	 £ 45 . 8m 	 including 	 shar e 	 o f 	 pr ofit 	 o f 	
associate and joint ventures (2015: £42.6m).  36 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Financial review
continued
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items comprise four separate items, all of which largely relate to the Group’s legacy activities. With regard to Harworth 
I nsur ance 	 Compan y 	 Limit ed , 	 Har w or t h 	 has 	 no w 	 r eceiv ed 	 £ 0 . 5 m 	 fr om 	 t he 	 a dminis t r a t or , 	 which 	 essen t ially 	 r epr esen t s 	 final 	 se t t lemen t . 	 I n 	
addition, £0.2m has been received from the administrator of Ocanti Opco Limited which relates to the reimbursement of management 
e xpenses 	 incurr ed 	 b y 	 Har w or t h 	 ( t hen 	 kno wn 	 as 	 Coalfield 	 Resour ces 	 plc ) . 	 I n 	 r espect 	 o f 	 coal 	 fines 	 a ct ivit ies , 	 an 	 e x cep t ional 	 char ge 	 o f 	 £ 0 . 7 m 	
has 	 been 	 tak en 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 t he 	 under 	 r eco v er y 	 o f 	 amoun t s 	 r ela t ing 	 t o 	 t he 	 cessa t ion 	 o f 	 a ct ivit ies 	 a t 	 Rugele y 	 and 	 a 	 pr o vision 	 tak en 	 a gains t 	 t he 	
v alue 	 o f 	 coal 	 fines 	 s t ock s 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 r educed 	 demand .
Net assets
As set out below, net assets increased to £334.9m as at 31 December 2016 from £297 .7m as at 31 December 2015. 
31 December  
2016
£m 
31 December  
2015
£m
 
Investment properties (including investments in joint ventures, assets held for sale, overages and 
occupied properties)
400.3 345.2
Cash 13.0 27.6
Other assets 25.2 20.9
 
Total assets 438.5 393.7
Gross borrowings 52.5 64.5
Deferred tax liability 14.9 11.4
Other liabilities 36.2 20.1
 
Net assets 334.9 297.7
 
Number of shares in issue 292,269,786 2,922,697,857 
 
Net assets per share 114.6p 10.2p
 
Underlying net assets per share 114.6p 101.9p
 
Underlying EPRA net assets per share 119.8p 105.8p
 
This 	 incr ease 	 w as 	 as 	 a 	 r esult 	 o f 	 mo v emen t s 	 in 	 t he 	 y ear , 	 being 	 oper a t ing 	 pr ofit 	 o f 	 £ 45 . 8m
(1) 
less interest costs of £2.3m, tax of £3.6m, 
dividends of £2.2m and other movements of £0.5m. The graph below shows the movement between NAV and EPRA NAV at the start and 
end of the year in pence per share.
90p
95p
100p
105p
110p
115p
120p
Closing NAV/ 
EPRA NAV
Tax/Swap 
Movement
Dividends Pension Interest Value Gains Profit from 
Operations
Opening NAV/ 
EPRA NAV
101.9p 114.6p
3.9p
0.8p
14.9p
0.8p 0.2p 0.7p
1.3p
5.2p CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 37
The table below sets out a reconciliation of the various constituent elements of our £400.3m of investment properties:
Opening 
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Subsequent
Expenditure
£m
Change in fair 
value
£m
Transfers
£m
Disposals
£m
Closing
 £m
 
Investment properties (Note 17) 334.6 22.5 22.7 33.7 (9.1) (25.2) 379.2
Joint ventures (Note 18) 0.8 9.1 – 0.6 – – 10.5
Available for sale (Note 21) 9.1 – 1.6 (0.2) 8.3 (10.5) 8.4
Overages (Note 16) 0.7 – – 0.7 – – 1.4
Owner occupied (Note 15) – – – – 0.8 – 0.8
 
TOTAL 345.2 31.7 24.2 34.9 – (35.7) 400.3
v
N ot e : 	 T h e re 	 a re 	 m i n o r 	 d i ffe re n c e s 	 o n 	 s o m e 	 tota l s 	 d u e 	 to 	 ro u n d i n g .
FINANCING AND FUNDING STRATEGY
On 	 1 3 	 Februar y 	 2 0 1 5 , 	 HEPGL 	 en t er ed 	 in t o 	 a 	 £65 m , 	 fiv e- y ear 	 t erm , 	 non - amor t ising , 	 Re v olving 	 Cr edit 	 F a cilit y 	 (R C F ) 	 wit h 	 The 	 R o y al 	 Bank 	 o f 	
Scotland (RBS), replacing amortising facilities with the Lloyds Banking Group and Barclays Bank. On 19 August 2016, HEPGL completed 
a planned extension to its RCF with RBS, increasing the limit to £75m and extending the term by a further year such that it now expires in 
Februar y 	 2 0 2 1 , 	 on 	 subs tan t ially 	 t he 	 same 	 t erms 	 (including 	 pricing ) 	 as 	 t he 	 e xis t ing 	 f a cilit y . 	 This 	 enhanced 	 f a cilit y 	 r e flect s 	 con fidence 	 in 	 t he 	
business, providing both headroom and funds to accelerate the strategic growth of the Group.
Infrastructure funding, provided by public bodies to promote the development of major sites for employment and housing needs, 
con t inues 	 t o 	 f ea t ur e 	 in 	 our 	 funding 	 s t r a t egy . 	 A t 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 ha d 	 fiv e 	 in fr as t ruct ur e 	 f a cilit ies 	 wit h 	 all - in 	 funding 	 r a t es 	 o f 	
between 2.4% and 4.0%. Since the EU referendum vote, public infrastructure funding has continued and we signed two facility 
agreements to fund small direct build schemes at Logistics North and the Advanced Manufacturing Park in the second half of 2016. 
Infrastructure spend is assessed against, and matched with, the quantum and timing of expected disposals.
On 	 2 1 	 June 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 HEPGL 	 en t er ed 	 in t o 	 a 	 f our - y ear 	 s w ap 	 wit h 	 RBS 	 t o 	 fix 	 £ 30m 	 o f 	 borr o wings 	 a t 	 an 	 all - in 	 r a t e 	 o f 	 2 . 95 5 % , 	 including 	 f ees . 	 The 	
swap is hedge accounted with any unrealised movements going through reserves. The Group’s hedging strategy is to have roughly half of 
it s 	 deb t 	 a t 	 a 	 fix ed 	 r a t e 	 and 	 half 	 o f 	 it s 	 deb t 	 e xposed 	 t o 	 floa t ing 	 r a t es . 	 The 	 w eigh t ed 	 a v er a ge 	 cos t 	 o f 	 deb t , 	 using 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 6 	 balances 	
and rates, was 2.9% with a 0.8% non-utilisation fee on undrawn RCF amounts.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 were £13.0m (2015: £27 .6m). The Group had borrowings and loans of 
£52.5m at 31 December 2016 (2015: £64.5m), being the RBS RCF of £37 .0m (2015: £49.0m) and infrastructure loans of £15.5m 
(2015: £15.6m). The resulting net debt was £39.5m (2015: £37 .0m).
The chart below shows the Group’s management of net debt during the year.
£0
£10
£20
£30
£40
£50
£60
£70
Closing Net Debt 
31/12/2016
Dividends Cash and working
 capital used 
in operations
Acquisitions Investment in JVs Disposal proceeds Development 
Spend
Opening Net Debt 
31/12/2015
37.0
24.4
(53.2)
9.1
23.2
(3.1)
2.2 39.5
£m
The 	 Gr oup 	 con t inues 	 wit h 	 it s 	 aim 	 o f 	 balancing 	 it s 	 cash 	 flo w s 	 b y 	 using 	 disposal 	 pr oceeds 	 t o 	 fund 	 in fr as t ruct ur e 	 spend 	 and 	 in v es t men t 	
in 	 a cquisit ions 	 t o 	 r eplenish 	 t he 	 por t f olio , 	 as 	 w ell 	 as 	 impr o ving 	 it s 	 f ocus 	 on 	 br o wn field 	 sit es 	 wit h 	 gr ea t er 	 v alue 	 enhancemen t 	 po t en t ial . 	
The Group is also maintaining its policy of prudent gearing with gross Loan To Value (LTV) of 13.1% (2015: 18.7%) and net LTV of 9.9% 
(2015: 10.7%). However, Capital Growth sites are deliberately not geared, so if gearing is just assessed against the value of Business 
Space and Natural Resources properties this equates to gross LTV of 41.6% and net LTV of 31.3%.
Harworth’s policy of prudent gearing gives the Group the ability to complete acquisitions quickly, which is often a source of competitive 
advantage. In addition, this policy of prudent gearing allows working capital swings to be appropriately managed given that infrastructure 
spend is usually in advance of sales and thus net debt can increase by over £20m during the year. 38 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
TAXATION
The charge for taxation in the year was £3.6m (2015: £3.5m) comprising the deferred tax charge on forecast future capital gains arising on 
the investment property portfolio. The Group does not currently pay cash tax as brought forward tax losses are still being utilised.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of £23.3m (2015: £11.4m) related to unrealised gains on investment properties. 
As a result of additional work performed during the year, there is now greater certainty regarding the tax loss position and the expected 
pattern of usage. The Group has therefore recognised a deferred tax asset of £8.4m (2015: £nil). The net deferred tax liability was £14.9m 
(2015: £11.4m).
DIVIDENDS
At the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016, the full year proposed dividend for 2015 of £1.5m (0.051p per share), the reduction of 
capital and the 1 for 10 share consolidation were approved. The capital reduction was subsequently approved by the court and the share 
consolida t ion 	 w as 	 e ff ect ed 	 on 	 3 	 Ma y 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 As 	 a 	 r esult , 	 t he 	 2 0 1 5 	 full 	 y ear 	 dividend 	 o f 	 £ 1 . 5 m 	 ( no w 	 0 . 5 1 p 	 per 	 shar e ) 	 w as 	 paid 	 on	
9 September 2016.
A 	 firs t 	 in t erim 	 dividend 	 o f 	 £ 0 . 66m 	 (0 . 2 3p 	 per 	 shar e ) 	 f or 	 t he 	 2 0 1 6 	 financial 	 y ear 	 w as 	 paid 	 on 	 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 A 	 final 	 dividend 	 f or 	 t he 	 2 0 1 6 	
financial 	 y ear 	 o f 	 £ 1 . 5 3m 	 (0 . 5 2 3p 	 per 	 shar e ) 	 is 	 pr oposed . 	 This 	 giv es 	 a 	 t o tal 	 dividend 	 o f 	 £2 . 2 m 	 f or 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 a 	 1 0 . 0 % 	 incr ease 	 o v er 	 t he 	 2 0 1 5 	
annualised 	 dividend 	 o f 	 £2 . 0m , 	 r e flect ing 	 t he 	 gr o w t h 	 in 	 t he 	 business 	 and 	 t he 	 Board ’ s 	 con fidence 	 in 	 t he 	 fut ur e 	 pr ospect s 	 f or 	 gr o w t h . 	 The 	
final 	 dividend 	 will 	 be 	 paid 	 on 	 30 	 Ma y 	 2 0 1 7 	 t o 	 Shar eholders 	 on 	 t he 	 r egis t er 	 as 	 a t 	 5 	 Ma y 	 2 0 1 7 . 	
Andrew Kirkman 
Finance Director 
19 April 2017
Financial Review
continued
Notes:
(1) 
O p e rati n g 	 p rofi t 	 b efo re 	 ex c e pti o n a l 	 i t e ms 	 a n d 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s.
(2) 
Incr ease/(decr ease) 	 in 	 fair 	 value 	 of 	 investment 	 pr operties 	 and 	 assets 	 held 	 for 	 sale 	 (2016: 	 £33.5m) 	 together 	 with 	 other 	 gains, 	 being 	 overages 	 (£0.7m), 	 and 	 shar e 	 of 	 pr ofit 	 of 	 associate 	 and 	 joint 	 ventur es 	 (£0.6m).
New Logistics 225 unit at Logistics North, Autumn 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 39
Members of Harworth’s Natural Resources Team, Spring 2017 40 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
How we manage our risks
The Board has ultimate responsibility for 
determining the risk appetite of the Group and 
for the implementation and regular review of 
policies, processes and controls to mitigate 
and manage risk. The Board recognises 
that not all risks can be eliminated at an 
acceptable cost and that there are some 
risks which, given the nature of the Group’s 
business and the growing track record and 
experience of the team, it is prepared to 
accept. The Board also acknowledges that 
the Group’s insurance programme plays 
an important part in mitigating the impact 
of certain inherent risks which are neither 
acceptable nor capable of removal.
Following the Company’s acquisition of Harworth Estates 
in March 2015, the Group undertook a review of its 
principal risks and the processes in place to manage 
them. This led to the development of a Group Risk 
Regis t er , 	 which 	 iden t ified 	 risk s 	 wit hin 	 8 	 ca t egories : 	
strategic; operational; people; sites; markets; legal; 
financial ; 	 and 	 IT 	 and 	 communica t ions . 	 F or 	 ea ch 	 risk , 	
mitigating factors and controls already in place were 
assessed and recorded and further mitigation steps were 
iden t ified . 	 Risk s 	 w er e 	 scor ed 	 and 	 gr a ded 	 on 	 a 	 “ hea t 	 map ” , 	
based on likelihood and impact, taking account of 
mitigating factors already in place.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee 
responsibility for periodic review of the Group Risk 
Register and the Group’s internal control systems and 
procedures. Since the establishment of the Group Risk 
Register, it has been reviewed every six months by the 
Audit Committee. 
The Executive Committee has ultimate responsibility on a 
da y - t o-da y 	 basis 	 f or 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 risk 	 pr ofile , 	 t he 	
implementation of, and adherence to, risk management 
controls and procedures, and for monitoring the 
con t inued 	 e ff ect iv eness 	 o f 	 t he 	 same . 	 This 	 includes 	 a	
six-monthly formal review following which 
recommendations are made to inform the Audit 
Committee’s similar periodic reviews. The Group 
oper a t es 	 pr edominan t ly 	 fr om 	 a 	 single 	 office 	in 	 R o t herham ,	
with a relatively small team and short reporting lines. As 
such, members of the Executive Committee are closely 
involved in day-to-day operations and so are often able to 
identify new and changing risks and respond in a timely 
manner. The Executive Committee is also informed by 
regular feedback from its experienced senior 
management team on existing and new operational risks 
and 	 t he 	 e ff ect iv eness 	 o f 	 our 	 in t ernal 	 con t r ols 	 and	
procedures. Our Company Secretary facilitates the 
process by which feedback is taken from the senior 
management team, shared with the Executive Committee 
and acted upon. 
The establishment of the Group Risk Register forms the 
core element of the Group’s risk management framework 
but it was acknowledged in the 2015 Annual Report that 
further steps would need to be taken to ensure that: (i) it 
remains subject to regular review; (ii) risk management is 
embedded within the business; and (iii) the further risk 
mit iga t ing 	 s t eps 	 iden t ified 	 in 	 t he 	 r egis t er 	 ar e 	 a ct ioned 	 in 	 a 	
timely fashion. A number of steps have been undertaken 
since the publication of the 2015 Annual Report and 
fur t her 	 a ct ion 	 poin t s 	 ha v e 	 been 	 iden t ified 	 f or 	
implementation and progression in 2017 .
Board: ultimate responsibility 
for risk appetite and 
management
Audit Committee: 
periodic review of Group 
Risk Register and 
internal systems and 
controls
Executive Committee: 
responsible for monitoring 
day-to-day risk profile and 
ensuring implementation 
of, adherence to, and 
effectiveness of, internal 
systems and controls
Senior management: 
implementation of internal 
systems and controls; 
monitor and feedback to 
Company Secretary on 
operational risk profile and 
effectiveness of controls. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 41
Key risk management initiatives since the publication of the 2015 Annual Report
• Establishment of regular review meetings between our Company Secretary and the senior management team to identify changes 
in 	 t he 	 oper a t ional 	 risk 	 pr ofile 	 o f 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 impr o v emen t s 	 t ha t 	 can 	 and 	 should 	 be 	 ma de 	 t o 	 in t ernal 	 con t r ols 	 and 	 pr ocesses .
• Establishment of a revised Delegated Authorities Policy.
• R e v i e w 	 a n d 	 r efi n e m e nt 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 d o c u m e nt 	 a p p r o v a l , 	 e x e c u t i o n 	 a n d 	 r e c o rd s 	 p r o c e s s .
• Insurance broker re-tender and appointment, and comprehensive review of insurance programme.
Key risk management initiatives identified for implementation and/or progress in 2017
• Im p l e m e nt a t i o n 	 o f 	 ad d i t i o n a l 	 i nt e r n a l 	 c o nt r o l s 	 i d e nt i fi e d 	 b y 	 s e n i o r 	 m a n ag e m e nt 	 t e a m s . 	
• Further work on the newly established process for reviewing risk, internal controls and process with senior managers.
• An audit of the Group’s internal controls and processes in the second half of 2017.
Logistics North Works, Autumn 2016 42 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
How we manage our risks
continued
Risks Controls and mitigation already in place Further actions to be taken 
Current risk status 
and change during 
the year
 
Market risk
 
The Group is exposed to the risk 
o f 	 fluct ua t ions 	 in 	 t he 	 pr oper t y 	
market for the price of land.
There is diversity in the Group’s property portfolio, 
both in terms of sector and geography. Regional 
markets are typically less volatile than the London 
market.
Value gains are driven more by management 
actions than market conditions.
We have an ability to control working capital 
movements by managing the rate of acquisitions 
and development expenditure. 
We build headroom into our forecasts by 
identifying potential alternative sales in the event 
that planned sales do not proceed as quickly as 
anticipated.
We monitor continuously, and maintain regular 
and open dialogue with our agents and advisers in 
relation to, prevailing market conditions. 
We will continue to grow and 
strengthen our recurring income 
portfolio to create stability during 
periods of market downturn.
We will continue to review the 
composition of the Group’s portfolio 
regularly.
Our 	 cash 	 flo w 	 f or ecast s 	 pr o vide 	 f or 	 a 	
m in i m um 	 £ 1 0 m 	 “ b u ff e r ” 	 t hr ou g hou t	
the year.
 
Changes in political policy, such 
as in relation to Brexit, the 
Northern Powerhouse, HS2 and 
Help To Buy, could have an 
adverse impact on the Group’s 
principal markets.
The 	 diversity 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 portfolio 	 affor ds 	 a	
degree of mitigation to adverse political changes 
in 	 that, 	 in 	 r esponse 	 to 	 changes 	 affecting 	 a	
particular 	 market 	 (for 	 example, 	 coal 	 fines 	 sales), 	
the Group can leverage other markets (for 
example, logistics space).
The 	 Gr oup 	 continues 	 to 	 make 	 effective	
representations with key industry bodies, including 
the British Property Federation, the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the Home 
Builders 	 Federation, 	 to 	 ensur e 	 that 	 the 	 effect 	 of	
any political policy changes is fully understood by 
Government, thereby minimising the chances of 
adverse policy changes being enacted.
The Group will input into upcoming 
Government consultations on key 
policy matters, including those that 
relate to the recent Housing White 
Paper and Industrial Strategy.
 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group Risk Register has been updated following a robust assessment by the Directors of the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Those risks and 
uncertainties are set out below. 
KEY
Risk level
Low Medium High
Our 	 es t ima t e 	 o f 	 t he 	 curr en t 	 le v el 	 o f 	 risk . 	 Risk 	 is 	 difficult 	 t o 	 es t ima t e 	 wit h 	
accuracy and so may be more or less than indicated.
Increasing Unchanged Decreasing
Current assessment of direction of travel of level of risk. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 43
Risks Controls and mitigation already in place Further actions to be taken 
Current risk status 
and change during 
the year
 
Financial risk
 
Volatility of the recurring income 
stream from operations impacting 
on banking covenants.
We have implemented more sophisticated 
financial 	 modelling 	 and 	 mor e 	 r obust 	 financial 	
reporting systems. 
We have taken steps to grow and strengthen our 
recurring income in 2016 by: (i) acquiring 
income-generating investment properties: 
Advantage 	 House 	 (office), 	 Moorland 	 Gate 	 and 	
Four Oaks (business parks); (ii) re-gearing existing 
leases across our portfolio; and (iii) carrying out a 
targeted amount of direct development. 
Despite 	 difficult 	 market 	 conditions, 	 new 	 coal 	 fines 	
sales have been agreed with Drax and Uniper 
(Ratcliffe) 	 during 	 2016.
We have reached an “in principle” agreement with 
RBS to include a share of income from our joint 
ventures in covenant calculations. We anticipate 
that this will be documented during 2017. 
We will continue to build our income 
portfolio via targeted income-
generating acquisitions, direct 
development, and lease renewals and 
re-gearing.
We are actively exploring development 
management opportunities on certain 
of our sites, which would lead to the 
generation of development 
management, promote and asset 
management fees. 
W e 	 have 	 signed 	 our 	 first 	 planning 	
promotion agreements and are in 
advanced negotiations on a number 
of other agreements. We are targeting 
income from these agreements from 
2018 	 onwar ds 	 and 	 ar e 	 confident 	 that 	
they will represent another resilient 
income stream in the medium and 
long term.
 
Strategic risk
 
Failure or weakness of strategic 
plan impacting on Group direction 
wit h 	 t he 	 pot ent ial 	 influence 	 o f 	
extraneous factors such as 
economic cycle.
A detailed strategic review was undertaken by 
the Board and Executive Committee in June 
2016, with external input from Eden McCallum.  
A further analysis was undertaken following the 
result of the EU referendum. Both concluded 
that the Group’s strategy was appropriate and 
robust, notwithstanding volatility in the wider 
economy. 
The Executive Committee and Board also 
carried 	 out 	 it s 	 annual 	 5- y ear 	 financial 	 and 	
strategic review exercise in November and 
December as part of the budgeting process. 
All papers submitted to the Board for approval 
include an explanation as to how the proposal 
outlined in the paper aligns with strategy. 
Further improvement in 
communication of the strategic plan 
throughout the business.
Increasing the regularity of strategic 
updates by the Chief Executive to 
the Board.
Reduced risk due to 
mitigation undertaken 
during the year.
 
Human resources risk
 
Insufficien t 	 human 	 r esour ce 	 t o 	
meet the strategic and operational 
demands of a growing business, 
with adverse impact on outcomes. 
In a small team, "key-person" risks 
(eg. loss of key skills and 
k no wledge ) 	 ar e 	 magnified .
Whilst 	 having 	 a 	 small 	 team 	 amplifies 	 capacity 	 and 	
“key-person” risks, it also means that the 
Executive Committee can keep those risks under 
close and continuous review.
The Nomination Committee carries out an annual 
review of succession and development planning 
for the Executive Committee and senior 
management team, to ensure that such plans are 
appropriate and robust.
Six strategic promotions were approved by the 
Executive Committee at the end of 2016, which 
creates more strength in depth in the senior 
echelons of the business.
Performance reviews were carried out for all 
employees who had worked in the business for 
12 months or more.
The strategic planning process includes a review 
of roles and responsibilities within the Group. This 
year that process has led to our recruiting for 
thr ee 	 new 	 r oles, 	 two 	 of 	 which 	 had 	 been 	 filled 	 at 	
the date of this report. Every recruitment process 
(whether for new or replacement roles) begins 
with 	 a 	 detailed 	 r eview 	 of 	 the 	 r ole 	 specification 	 to 	
ensure that roles are complementary and drive 
maximum 	 efficiency 	 acr oss 	 the 	 business.
Recruitment into the new roles 
alr eady 	 identified 	 by 	 the 	 Executive 	
Committee. 
The Executive Committee carried out  
a 	 r esour ces 	 r eview 	 during 	 the 	 first 	
quarter of 2017.
Increased risk 
due to growth of 
business requiring 
resources review and 
recruitment in 2017.
b  44 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Risks Controls and mitigation already in place Further actions to be taken 
Current risk status 
and change during 
the year
 
Operational risk
 
Given the nature of the Group’s 
business, it faces a heightened 
exposure to health and safety and 
environmental risks, which can 
have consequences from a 
fina nc i a l 	 a nd 	 r e p u t a t i o na l	
perspective.
A monthly Estates, Environmental and Safety 
(EES) report is prepared and submitted by the 
senior manager who leads our EES team to both 
the Executive Committee and Board, which 
includes updates on all environmental and health 
and safety matters.
The Associate Director of EES meets with the 
Board annually. 
We have appointed an external health and safety 
consultant who advises on all health and safety 
issues across the business. He audits and 
advises 	 on 	 site 	 specific 	 matters 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 Gr oup 	
policy and procedures.
A review has been carried out during the year of 
all of the Group’s Environmental Permits. This has 
led to the surrender (or submission of applications 
to surrender) of all redundant permits.
The EES team maintains a site risk register, which 
is used to monitor the risk status of all sites and 
informs remediation plans. A member of the EES 
team inspects medium and high risk sites not less 
than annually. High risk sites are inspected more 
frequently based on the risk rating score. 
Our Environmental Manager will 
complete his Waste Management 
Industry Training and Advisory Board 
qualification, 	 which 	 will 	 enable 	 him 	 to 	
manage our waste licences in-house 
pro-actively.
Reduced risk due to 
mitigation undertaken 
during the year.
How we manage our risks
continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 45
BUSINESS CONTINUITY ASSESSMENTS
The Directors have assessed the Group’s prospects, both as a 
going concern and in the context of its viability longer term. This 
assessment informs the following distinct statements:
1.  The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
Compan y ’ s 	 and 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s .
2.  The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment.
Both assessments are closely linked to the Directors’ robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group (including 
those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity), which is outlined on 
pages 42, 43 and 44.
GOING CONCERN STATEMENT
Accounting standards require that the Directors satisfy 
themselves that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it 
is 	 appr opr ia t e 	 t o 	 pr e par e 	 financial 	 sta t e me n t s 	 on 	 a 	 going 	
conce r n 	 basis . 	 T he r e 	 has 	 be e n 	 no 	 ma t e r ial 	 unce r tain t y 	 ide n t ifie d 	
which 	 w ould 	 c ast 	 signific an t 	 doub t 	 upon 	 t he 	 G r oup ’ s 	 abilit y 	 t o 	
continue using the going concern basis of accounting for a 
period of at least 12 months following the approval of this Annual 
Report. In assessing going concern, the Directors take into 
accoun t 	 t he 	 G r oup ’ s 	 c ash 	 flo w s , 	 solv e ncy 	 and 	 liquidit y 	 posit ions 	
and borrowing facilities. At year end, the Group had cash and 
cash equivalents of £13.0m, net debt of £39.5m and a net loan 
to value of 9.9%. The Group has a £75m revolving credit facility 
wit h 	 RBS , 	 which 	 con tains 	 t y pic al 	 financial 	 co v e nan t s 	 and 	 r uns 	
until February 2021. At year end there was headroom of £38.0m 
on that facility. It also had infrastructure loans totalling £15.6m at 
t he 	 y e ar -e nd . 	 T he 	 financial 	 posit ion 	 o f 	 t he 	 G r oup , 	 including 	
in f or ma t ion 	 on 	 c ash 	 flo w , 	 c an 	 be 	 f ound 	 in 	 t he 	 Financial 	
Statements on pages 97 to 132. The equity placing undertaken 
by the Company in March 2017 and referred to on page 15 had 
a positive impact on the Group’s prospects, both as a going 
concern and in the context of longer-term viability. In determining 
whether there are material uncertainties, the Directors consider 
the Group’s business activities, together with factors that are 
lik e ly 	 t o 	 a ff e ct 	 it s 	 f ut ur e 	 de v e lopme n t 	 and 	 posit ion 	 ( se e 	 O ur 	
business model, Delivering on our strategy and our markets on 
pages 4 and 5 ) and the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
(see pages 42, 43 and 44).
VIABILITY STATEMENT 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the 
Code, the Directors have assessed the prospect of the Group 
over a longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going 
Concern’ provision. The Board conducted this review for a period 
of 	 five 	 years 	 ending 	 31 	 December 	 2021, 	 with 	 thr ee 	 years 	 of 	
detailed assessment and two years of outline numbers. This 
period was selected for the following reasons:
• the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 strategic 	 r eview 	 covers 	 a 	 five-year 	 period;
• for 	 a 	 major 	 scheme 	 five 	 years 	 is 	 a 	 r easonable 	 appr oximation 	
of the time taken from obtaining planning permission and 
remediating the site to letting the property and/or developing 
significant 	 parts 	 of 	 the 	 site; 	 and
• most 	 leases 	 contain 	 a 	 five-year 	 r ent 	 r eview 	 patter n 	 and 	
ther efor e 	 five 	 years 	 allows 	 for 	 the 	 for ecasts 	 to 	 include 	 the 	
reversion arising from those reviews.
The 	 five-year 	 strategic 	 r eview 	 focusses 	 on 	 the 	 expected 	 gr owth 	 of 	
the business primarily in terms of NAV but also dividends. The 
strategic review also considers the Group’s recurring income, cash 
flows, 	 covenant 	 compliance 	 (particulary 	 inter est 	 cover), 	 financing 	
headr oom 	 and 	 other 	 key 	 financial 	 ratios 	 over 	 the 	 period. 	 These 	
metrics 	 ar e 	 subject 	 to 	 sensitivity 	 analysis 	 which 	 involves 	 flexing 	 a 	
number of the main assumptions underlying the forecast both 
individually and in unison. The main assumptions relate to the 
forecast supply and demand dynamics for the residential and 
commercial property markets, and the availability of acquiring new, 
particularly 	 br ownfield 	 sites. 	 Wher e 	 appr opriate, 	 this 	 analysis 	 is 	
carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Group’s principal 
risks 	 actually 	 occurring. 	 The 	 five-year 	 r eview 	 also 	 makes 	 certain 	
assumptions about the normal level of capital recycling likely to 
occur 	 and 	 considers 	 whether 	 additional 	 financing 	 facilities 	 will 	 be 	
required.
The principal risks that are considered relate to economic 
assumptions, income generation variability and appropriate 
staffing 	 levels. 	 Sensitivity 	 analysis 	 has 	 been 	 applied 	 in 	 terms 	 of 	
income 	 generation, 	 cash 	 flow 	 and 	 net 	 asset 	 value 	 impacts, 	
particularly from changes in value gains. These risks are fairly well 
balanced on the up and downside. No mitigating or remedial 
actions 	 have 	 been 	 identified 	 but, 	 if 	 needed, 	 mor e 	 cash 	 could 	 be 	
generated through increased sales and/or reduced development 
spend and acquisitions, and, if needed, such cash could be 
targeted toward the acquisition of income generating properties.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation 	 and 	 meet 	 its 	 liabilities 	 as 	 they 	 fall 	 due 	 over 	 the 	 five-year 	
period of their assessment. 46 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Harworth in the community
Regenerating large parts of the UK’s former industrial heartland regularly gives us the 
opportunity to give something back to the communities we operate in. The following case 
studies provide a reflection of some of the community work we perform alongside bringing 
forward new development.
NEW APPRENTICESHIPS AT WAVERLEY
Starting in March 2016, we have helped fund the 
Univ ersit y 	 o f 	 She ffield 	 AMR C 	 T r aining 	 Cen t r e ’ s 	 ne w 	
‘Flexible Apprenticeship Programme’ – a programme 
tailored to meet the needs of small businesses close to 
Waverley and providing young people from the 
She ffield 	 Cit y 	 Region 	 wit h 	 ne w 	 appr en t iceship 	
opportunities.
W orking 	 in 	 conjunct ion 	 wit h 	 She ffield 	 Business 	 P ark , 	
the AMRC Training Centre – based at Waverley – we 
have helped to create eight places on the new 
pr ogr amme 	 f or 	 t he 	 firs t 	 y ear . 	 These 	 pla ces 	 w er e 	
specifically 	 a w arded 	 t o 	 business 	 s tar t - ups 	 and 	 small 	
employers who have not recruited an apprentice within 
the last 12 months.
We part funded this programme through two sources.  
In 2015, we won the £15,000 Lambert Smith Hampton 
Enterprise Award for demonstrating how the proposed 
Advanced Manufacturing Innovation District across 
She ffield 	 and 	 R o t herham 	 will 	 mak e 	 t he 	 mos t 	 o f 	 t he 	
Government’s devolution programme, showcasing 
innovative thinking in the property industry.
We then matched the prize money to create a £30,000 
fund to enable local young people that are not in 
education, employment or training, to get 
apprenticeships with local advanced manufacturers 
and a place at the AMRC Training Centre.
One 	 o f 	 t he 	 firms 	 t ha t 	 bene fit t ed 	 fr om 	 t his 	 pr ogr amme 	
w as 	 She ffield - based 	 T ribosonics , 	 a 	 gr o wing 	 small 	 and 	
medium-sized enterprise (SME) that designs and 
manufactures ultrasonic measurement and monitoring 
devices. In addition, seven other SMEs had taken on 
an apprentice from the programme by the end of 2016 
to help create the workforce of the future. 
AWARD-WINNING RESTORATION AT RUFFORD
Our Operations team has worked in close partnership 
with the Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust to transform the 
f ormer 	 Ruff ord 	 Collier y 	 in t o 	 a 	 superb 	 ne w 	 open 	 spa ce	
for local residents to enjoy, resulting in the programme 
winning a Nottinghamshire ‘Green Guardians’ award.
The programme is Nottinghamshire’s largest ever 
heathland re-creation programme – totalling over 
100 hectares – to help restore the landscape of the 
wider 	 Sher w ood 	 F or es t . 	 Nearly 	 fiv e 	 y ears 	 in 	 t he 	 making , 	
the restoration programme has brought a range of new 
wildlife habitats to the site, whilst also creating a series 
of new trails and public rights of way to encourage 
public use.
All restoration ground works have been undertaken 
under the guidance of an experienced ecologist in 
order to minimise disruption to native species. This 
resulted in works taking place outside of the nesting 
season (February to mid-July) and all seeding and 
planting undertaken so as to optimise potential 
growing opportunities.
We have now extended our partnership with the Trust 
to deliver the restoration of Thoresby Colliery’s 
350-acre former spoil heap in line with a restoration 
scheme previously agreed with Nottinghamshire 
County Council. The scheme, which will take at least 
two years to complete fully, will provide a series of new 
public rights of way and a further raised viewing 
pla t f orm 	 t ha t 	 will 	 off er 	 specta cular 	 vie w s 	 acr oss 	 t he	
entire Sherwood Forest and its immediate environs. 
This remains an important part of our plans at 
Thoresby, where we continue to consult, and work 
closely with, the community, to maintain support for 
our regeneration masterplan and proposals.
46 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 47
“The scale of habitat restoration required in Sherwood 
Forest will require true partnership working and the 
transformation of this site is a great example of what 
can be achieved.” 
Rob Fitzsimons, Chief Executive for Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust
University	of	Sheffield	AMRC	at	the	AMP ,	Spring	2016
Restoration	at	the	former	Ruffor d	Colliery ,	Summer	2016
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 47
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
RESPONSIBLY MANAGING THE REDEVELOPMENT AND RESTORATION OF SITES
Har w or t h 	 and 	 it s 	 pr edecessor 	 business 	 has 	 o v er 	 t w en t y 	 y ears ’ 	 e xperience 	 in 	 ta ckling 	 lar ge , 	 comple x , 	 br o wn field 	
sites. We have a reputation for delivering new developments responsibly, whilst also extracting value from 
materials that can be recycled for uses elsewhere. 
REMEDIATION AND RESTORATION
We work with a small number of trusted contractors to decontaminate previously polluted land and remove 
danger ous 	 under gr ound 	 s t ruct ur es 	 a t 	 a 	 r ange 	 o f 	 br o wn field 	 sit es 	 a cr oss 	 t he 	 UK 	 – 	 e v en t ually 	 pr eparing 	 land 	 f or 	
redevelopment. Waverley’s redevelopment is the most striking example of the transformation of a site. 
RE-USING PUBLIC ASSETS
We believe that former industrial assets should be retained to support future development uses where 
pr a ct icable 	 and 	 Har w or t h 	 has 	 f ollo w ed 	 t his 	 principle 	 a cr oss 	 a 	 number 	 o f 	 it s 	 br o wn field 	 sit es . 	 Asse t s 	
reconditioned and reused for new purposes include railheads, substations, access roads and enhanced public 
open spaces that surround our sites.
DEMOLITION
W e 	 ar e 	 e xper t s 	 in 	 pr o ject 	 mana ging 	 comple x 	 demolit ion 	 w ork s 	 in 	 a 	 sa f e 	 and 	 e fficien t 	 manner . 	 Ov er 	 t he 	 pas t 	 t hr ee 	
years we have safely and successfully demolished the former Daw Mill Colliery in Warwickshire, formerly the UK’s 
largest coal mine, the former Alcan Aluminium Smelter in Northumberland and also Harworth tower, 
Nottinghamshire’s tallest building, at the former Harworth Colliery. We have also started demolition at the former 
Thoresby and Kellingley colleries in preparation for redevelopment.
MATERIAL RECOVERY
Whe t her 	 it 	 is 	 coal 	 slurr y , 	 me tals , 	 concr e t e 	 or 	 fill 	 ma t erial , 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 t he 	 capabilit y 	 t o 	 e x t r a ct 	 t he 	 ma ximum 	 v alue 	 fr om 	
derelict land and property, raising revenue that can ultimately be put to preparing land for eventual redevelopment 
whilst also being environmentally responsible. The team has been able to extract and sell over 1m tonnes of coal 
slurry to power station operators to produce electricity between 2011 and 2016 – a material previously considered 
as waste.
MINIMISING PUBLIC IMPACT
The team has been able to achieve all of this whilst minimising disruption to residents, businesses and other 
Groups that are close to the sites that we are working on. We pride ourselves in maintaining clear communication 
and professionalism through all stages of the development process, building on our track record as a responsible 
regeneration Company.
Harworth and the environment
We take our environmental obligations extremely seriously, reflected in the extensive 
remediation and restoration works we undertake on our brownfield developments, through 
to minimising the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 49
REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM OUR OPERATIONS
Har w or t h 	 oper a t es 	 a 	 Sa fe t y , 	 Healt h 	 and 	 E n vir onmen tal 	 Mana gemen t 	 Sy s t em 	 ( SHE MS ) 	 t o 	 ensur e 	 t he 	 e ff ect iv e	
control of environmental risk and operates a management system to ensure environmental issues are considered 
at all levels. The policy advocates the promotion of sustainable and environmental opportunities by active 
resource management and waste minimisation.
We declared in our 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements that we were aiming to improve environmental 
performance in 2016 by implementing an improvement plan covering three discrete areas:
• e xa m i n i n g 	 t h e 	 p r o s p e c t 	 o f 	 s m a r t 	 w o r k i n g 	 t o 	 r e d u c e 	 st aff 	 f u e l 	 u s ag e ;
• i n v e st i n g 	 i n 	 e n e r g y 	 effi c i e nt 	 m e a s u r e s 	 a t 	 o u r 	 p r o p e r t i e s 	 w h e r e 	 t h e s e 	 a r e 	 c o st 	 eff e c t i v e , 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 t h e 	 u s e 	 o f 	
LED and passive lighting systems where appropriate; and
• a n a l ys i n g 	 o p p o r t u n i t i e s 	 t o 	 m a n ag e 	 p l a nt 	 j o u r n e ys 	 m o r e 	 effi c i e nt l y 	 a t 	 o p e ra t i o n a l 	 s i t e s .
We are pleased to report that we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions year-on-year by over 20% 
following the instigation of the following actions:
• s m a r t 	 w o r k i n g 	 p r i n c i p l e s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 i m p l e m e nt e d 	 w h e r e b y 	 s o m e 	 st aff 	 h a v e 	 o r g a n i s e d 	 t h e i r 	 d i a r i e s 	 t o 	
r e d u c e 	 u n n e c e s s a r y 	 b u s i n e s s 	 m i l e s 	 t o 	 a t t e m p t 	 t o 	 off s et 	 i n c r e a s i n g 	 st aff 	 n u m b e r s ; 	
• we have isolated the electricity supply to buildings that are unoccupied, ensuring lighting or heating cannot 
be accidentally left on; and
• our Operations team has markedly reduced yellow plant journeys on the sites it operates from.
This 	 s ta t emen t 	 out lines 	 t he 	 gr eenhouse 	 gas 	 emissions 	 arising 	 fr om 	 our 	 a ct ivit ies 	 during 	 t he 	 2 0 1 6 	 financial 	 y ear 	
and follows the Environmental Reporting Guidelines set by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural 
A ff airs 	 (DEF R A ) .	
Emissions are reported in tonnes of CO
2
 equivalents (CO
2
e) and refer to three areas:
Scope 	 1 	 – 	 F uel 	 use 	 in 	 v ehicles 	 f or 	 s ta ff 	 in 	 pursuance 	 o f 	 t heir 	 dut ies ;
Scope 2 – Gas oil used in plant at operational sites; and
Scope 3 – Electricity (non-rechargeable) usage on Harworth sites.
Emission source
Tonnes of  
CO
2
e (2015)
Tonnes of  
CO
2
e (2016)
 
Scope 1 Fuel	for	staff	vehicles 224 243
Scope 2 Gas oil used in plant 1,744 1,326
Scope 3 Electricity usage 854 639
 
Total 2,822 2,208
 
We aim to further improve performance in 2017 by:
• c o nt i n u i n g 	 t o 	 m o n i t o r 	 a n d 	 e n c o u rag i n g 	 a 	 s m a r t 	 w o r k i n g 	 p r o g ra m m e 	 w h e r e 	 st aff 	 p l a n 	 t h e i r 	 b u s i n e s s 	 m i l e s 	 i n 	
t h e 	 m o st 	 effi c i e nt 	 w a y 	 p o s s i b l e ; 	
• e n s u r i n g 	 t h a t 	 w e 	 o p e ra t e 	 a l l 	 n e w l y 	 ac q u i r e d 	 p r o p e r t i e s 	 a s 	 effi c i e nt l y 	 a s 	 p o s s i b l e ; 	 a n d
• continuing to use well maintained yellow plant and periodically review material recovery and recycling 
t e c h n i q u e s 	 t o 	 e n s u r e 	 t h e i r 	 eff e c t i v e n e s s .
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Our people
We recognise that, alongside our property portfolio, our people are our biggest asset. We have a small but 
vastly experienced and dedicated team who help to drive consistent levels of value growth and income from 
our property portfolio. We know how important it is that we listen to our employees, create an environment 
in which they can develop their skills and experience, and reward them for their hard work and contribution.
EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS
The 	 average 	 number 	 of 	 persons, 	 including 	 Executive 	 Dir ectors, 	 employed 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 our 	 staff 	 costs 	 ar e 	 set 	 out 	 in 	 Note 	 8 	 to 	 the	
financial 	 statements.
ENGAGEMENT 
I n 	 December 	 2 0 1 5 , 	 w e 	 conduct ed 	 our 	 firs t 	 emplo y ee 	 sur v e y 	 co v ering 	 a 	 r ange 	 o f 	 t hemes 	 including 	 communica t ion , 	 de v elopmen t , 	 mor ale 	
and 	 mo t iv a t ion . 	 W e 	 implemen t ed 	 a 	 number 	 o f 	 init ia t iv es 	 in 	 r esponse 	 t o 	 f eedba ck 	 fr om 	 t ha t 	 sur v e y , 	 including 	 a 	 s ta ff 	 a w a y -da y 	 which	
focused on teamwork and communication, presentations to all employees following the Group’s interim and full-year results, a leadership 
training programme for senior managers and increased investment in Continuous Personal Development (CPD) for all employees. 
We repeated the survey in December 2016. There was a completion rate of 96%, well above the average for similar surveys, and 
impr o v ed 	 scor es 	 a cr oss 	 all 	 sect ions 	 o f 	 t he 	 sur v ey . 	 W e 	 ha v e 	 iden t ified 	 fur t her 	 init ia t iv es 	 which 	 w e 	 ar e 	 looking 	 t o 	 implemen t 	 during 	 2 0 1 7 , 	
including the introduction of a Harworth newsletter and cascading Board feedback, market announcements and press releases to all 
employees to improve communication and awareness throughout the business and to celebrate better our successes.
RECRUITMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
For 	 every 	 r ole, 	 our 	 r ecruitment 	 pr ocess 	 (whether 	 for 	 new 	 or 	 r eplacement 	 r oles) 	 begins 	 with 	 a 	 detailed 	 r eview 	 of 	 the 	 r ole 	 specification 	 to 	
ensur e 	 that 	 r oles 	 ar e 	 complementary 	 and 	 drive 	 maximum 	 efficiency 	 acr oss 	 the 	 business. 	
All 	 of 	 our 	 employees 	 have 	 undertaken 	 an 	 externally 	 facilitated 	 personality 	 pr ofile 	 exer cise, 	 which 	 helps 	 us 	 to 	 understand 	 the 	 dynamics 	 of 	 our 	
team and informs our recruitment of new employees and our plans for CPD of existing team members. 
We aim to carry out performance reviews for all employees every year and all employees who had been with the Group for more than 
12 months participated in a review during 2016.
In 	 2016, 	 a 	 significant 	 number 	 of 	 our 	 employees 	 attended 	 external 	 training 	 courses 	 and, 	 in 	 some 	 cases, 	 gained 	 pr ofessional 	 qualifications. 	
Ten of our senior managers participated in an external leadership programme during the year, completing six modules covering topics such 
as performance management and presentation skills. A second wave of 10 employees are about to start the programme. External 
coaching is also available to our Executive Committee and senior management team and we encourage them all to use this resource from 
time to time.
Ther e 	 wer e 	 six 	 strategic 	 pr omotions 	 at 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 2016, 	 r eflecting 	 the 	 gr owing 	 experience 	 and 	 capabilities 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 cr eating 	 mor e 	 str ength 	
in depth, across the business.
It 	 is 	 important 	 that 	 we 	 maintain 	 enough, 	 and 	 the 	 right 	 mix 	 of, 	 r esour ces 	 for 	 a 	 gr owing 	 business. 	 During 	 the 	 first 	 quarter 	 of 	 2017, 	 the 	
Executive Committee has carried out a review of resources, which will lead to us recruiting for a number of new roles over the coming 
months, to track the growth of the business.
Male
Female
40 12 7
1 1
12
All employees Senior management Board Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 51
Health and safety
H eal t h 	 an d 	 sa f e ty 	 h as 	 an 	 e xt r em ely 	 h ig h 	 p r ofi le 	 i n 	 o u r 	 b u s i n ess . 	 Ou r 	 C h ie f 	 Ex ec ut iv e 	 h as 	 u l t i m a t e 	 r es p o n s i b i l i ty 	 f o r 	 al l 	 h eal t h 	 an d 	 sa f e ty 	
matters, but day-to-day review and management rests with our Estates, Environment and Safety (EES) team, led by our Associate 
Director of EES. 
Harworth’s Safety, Health and Environment Management System (SHEMS) is based on the Plan, Do, Check and Act model advocated 
by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE). 
The EES team maintains a “site risk register” which rates each of our sites as “low risk”, “medium risk” or “high risk”, from a health and 
safety perspective. A medium or high risk rating recognises that action needs to be taken at the site, whether within a prescribed 
timetable (medium risk sites) or immediately (high risk sites). All our low and medium risk sites are inspected at least annually and our 
high risk-rated sites are inspected more regularly. Further proactive safety initiatives are undertaken in the form of health and safety 
inspections and audits. The geographical spread of our sites is large and the type of sites is varied. Any issues reported, whether they 
are incidents or accidents, are logged and appropriate follow up action is undertaken. This process is key to identifying areas for 
improvement across the portfolio. 
There were only six minor accidents recorded at our sites during the year. For completeness, this statistic includes accidents involving 
contractors at our demolition sites, where our contractors take responsibility for health and safety whilst works are ongoing.
Ther e 	 w er e 	 no 	 R I DDOR 	 a cciden t s 	 or 	 inciden t s 	 r epor t ed 	 b y 	 Har w or t h 	 during 	 t he 	 y ear , 	 alt hough 	 t her e 	 w as 	 one 	 R I DDOR 	 r epor t 	 fi led 	 wit h 	
the HSE by one of our demolition contractors when a structure at our former Harworth colliery site failed to fall after the use of 
explosives. Procedures for this eventuality were in place and followed and the demolition was completed using alternative means, 
without further incident. 
Meetings are held between our Chief Executive and the EES team monthly, following which our Associate Director of EES reports to 
both our Executive Committee and the Board. He also meets with the Board in January of each year to report on key issues 
encountered and actions undertaken during the previous year and priorities for the coming year. 
During 2016 we engaged JPW Consultancy Limited, an external health and safety consultant, to advise on all health and safety issues 
a cr o ss 	 t he 	 b usiness 	 on 	 an 	 ongoing 	 b asis , 	 includ ing 	 sit e 	 specific 	 ma tt ers 	 and 	 Gr oup 	 pol ic y 	 and 	 pr ocedur es . 	
The strategic report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Owen Michaelson 
Chief Executive 
19 April 2017
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY
We operate an Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work policy. We are committed to creating a working environment that is free from 
discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone feels valued and respected. We aim to promote equality and fairness for all in 
our employment and to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment or is disadvantaged on the grounds of 
gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief, age, and pregnancy or maternity.
We are committed to making reasonable adjustments for disabled employees and to giving full and fair consideration to disabled applicants 
for roles in our business. We will provide equal opportunities for CPD and promotion within our business to any disabled employees. 
We recognise the value of diversity and continue to take steps to encourage it throughout the business. The charts on the facing page 
show a breakdown, by gender, of the Company’s Directors, the Group’s senior management team and all our employees at the end of 
2016. Whilst we have already taken steps to promote diversity across the business, we recognise that we have a long way to go to 
address historic imbalances. That said, selection for employment and promotion will continue to be based on merit and ability.
RECOGNITION AND REWARD 
W e 	 offer 	 a 	 compr ehensive 	 employee 	 benefits 	 package 	 for 	 all 	 employees, 	 which 	 includes 	 a 	 pension 	 scheme 	 with 	 substantial 	 employer 	
contributions, private medical insurance, life insurance and income protection.
During 2016, the Remuneration Committee approved the introduced of a share incentive plan for our senior management team and made 
the 	 first 	 awar ds 	 under 	 that 	 plan 	 in 	 April 	 2017. 	 This 	 will 	 mirr or 	 aspects 	 of 	 the 	 Executive 	 Committee 	 long-term 	 incentive 	 plan, 	 ther eby 	 helping 	
to incentivise and reward our senior managers, whilst aligning their interests with those of Shareholders. The options which vest under this 
plan 	 will 	 be 	 satisfied 	 by 	 shar es 	 pur chased 	 in 	 the 	 market. 	
We are also proposing the introduction of an all-employee Save As You Earn scheme. If the scheme is approved by Shareholders at this 
year’ s 	 Annual 	 General 	 Meeting, 	 it 	 will 	 offer 	 all 	 employees 	 the 	 opportunity 	 to 	 save 	 up 	 to 	 £500 	 a 	 month 	 over 	 3 	 years 	 and 	 then 	 pur chase	
shares in the Company at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the outset of the scheme. We see this as an important 
and tangible way in which our employees can share in the Group’s success, to which they all contribute.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Corporate Governance
54 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 
56 Chairman’s introduction 
58 Statement of Corporate Governance
66 Directors’ Remuneration report
 66 Chair’s introduction
 68 Remuneration Policy – at a glance
 72 Annual Remuneration report
80 Audit Committee report
84 Nomination Committee report
86 Directors’ report
91 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
 
Advantage House, Autumn 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 53
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 54 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Jonson Cox Owen Michaelson Andrew Kirkman Lisa Clement Anthony Donnelly
Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director
N
 
R R N
R A
Term of office
Joined the Board on 
15 November 2010 as 
Executive Chairman. 
Non-Executive Chairman 
since December 2012. Last 
re-elected in April 2016. Chair 
of the Nomination Committee.
Term of office
Joined the Board on 24 March 
2015 having previously been 
Chief Executive of HEPGL from 
28 September 2012 and of the 
Harworth Estates division of 
UK Coal since August 2010. 
Last re-elected in April 2016.
Term of office
Joined the Board on 
1 January 2016. Elected in 
April 2016. 
Term of office
Joined the Board on 
15 December 2011. Last 
re-elected in April 2016.
Appointed Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
Senior Independent Director 
on 1 October 2016. Formerly 
Chair of the Audit Committee.
Term of office
Joined the Board on 24 March 
2015 having previously been 
a Non-Executive Director of 
HEPGL from 10 December 
2012 and a Director of the 
Harworth Estates division of 
UK Coal from January 2011. 
Last re-elected in April 2016.
Length of service
6 years 5 months
Length of service
2 years (6 years 5 months 
including appointment to 
HEPGL and Harworth Estates 
division of UK Coal)
Length of service
1 year 3 months
Length of service
5 years 3 months
Length of service
2 years (6 years 3 months 
including appointment to 
HEPGL and Harworth Estates 
division of UK Coal)
Independent
No
Independent
No
Independent
No
Independent
Yes
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Jonson’s early career was with 
Royal Dutch Shell and Kelda 
Group. He joined Anglian 
Water as Chief Executive from 
2004 until 2010. He was a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Wincanton plc from 2005 to 
2014. In November 2012 he 
was appointed Chairman of 
the Water Services Regulation 
Authority (Ofwat).
Jonson joined the Board in 
2010 to lead the former UK 
Coal plc through its 2012 
restructuring. He has served 
as Non-Executive Chairman 
since the restructuring and 
led the Company through its 
2015 acquisition of Harworth 
Estates.
Skills and experience
Owen has more than 25 years’ 
experience in the remediation 
of	br ownfield	land	and	has	
held executive roles at the 
Peel Group, Black Country 
Properties and Viridor. Prior to 
becoming the Chief Executive 
of Harworth Group plc, he 
took over the stand alone 
operations of Harworth Estates 
at the commencement of the 
restructuring of the UK Coal 
Group in August 2010. He 
established the business as 
a recognised developer of 
br ownfield	land,	befor e	being	
appointed to the Board of 
Harworth Group plc following 
its acquisition of Harworth 
Estates in 2015.
Skills and experience
Prior to joining Harworth, 
Andrew was Finance Director 
of Viridor, the recycling and 
renewable energy subsidiary 
of	Pennon	Gr oup	plc,	for	five	
years. He has also previously 
held a number of other senior 
finance	r oles,	including	Chief	
Financial	Officer	at	Balfour	
Beatty Capital and Global 
Head of Corporate Finance 
at Bovis Lend Lease. Andrew 
is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
and has an MA in politics, 
philosophy and economics 
from Oxford University.
Skills and experience
Lisa was formerly Chief 
Financial	Officer	of	Sea	
Containers Limited, Managing 
Director of Capita Learning 
and Development and has 
held senior divisional roles 
at Cendant Inc and BPP 
Holdings plc. 
Skills and experience
After	early	finance	r oles	with	
Scottish and Newcastle 
Breweries from 1986, Anthony 
joined Morrison Homes Limited 
as Finance Director in 1990. 
In 2000 he was appointed 
Managing Director of 
Scotland-based AWG Property 
Limited. He has consequently 
overseen the workout and 
extraction of value from an 
extensive commercial and 
residential portfolio across 
the UK and Ireland and its 
transformation into a strategic 
and income generating 
portfolio. 
External appointments
Chairman of Water Services 
Regulation Authority (Ofwat) 
and the Cory Group. Advisor 
to I Squared Capital LLP . 
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
Director of Everything But The 
Cow Limited.
External appointments
Director of various private 
limited companies in the 
AWG Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 55
Andrew Cunningham Steven Underwood Martyn Bowes Chris Birch
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
A N
R A
Term of office
Joined the Board on 26 April 
2016. Appointed as Chair of 
the	Audit	Committee	with	effect	
from 1 October 2016.
Term of office
Joined the Board on 2 August 
2010. Last re-elected in April 
2016. 
Term of office
Joined the Board on 24 March 
2015 having previously been 
a Non-Executive Director of 
HEPGL from 19 March 2013. 
Last re-elected in April 2016.
Term of office
Appointed on 6 June 2016
Length of service
1 year
Length of service
6 years 8 months
Length of service
2 years (4 years including 
appointment to HEPGL)
Independent
Yes
Independent
No, representative of the Peel 
Group
Independent
No, representative of the PPF
Skills and experience
Andrew graduated from 
Cambridge University and 
then trained as a chartered 
accountant with Deloitte 
Haskins and Sells (a 
pr edecessor	firm	of	PwC).	In	
1989 he was made a corporate 
finance	and	audit	partner .	
In 1996 he was appointed 
Finance Director of Grainger 
plc, which was to become the 
UK’s largest listed residential 
investor, and then Chief 
Executive in 2009. He retired 
from Grainger at the end of 
2015. Andrew is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants and of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors.
Skills and experience
Steven is Chief Executive of 
the Peel Group of companies 
and brings to the Board the 
extensive experience of the 
Peel	Gr oup	in	br ownfield	land	
remediation and regeneration. 
Skills and experience
Martyn originally trained as an 
accountant and as a banker. 
He has spent the majority of 
his career in banking, most 
recently from 2001 to 2007 
with Barclays Capital as 
Managing Director, Real Estate 
Finance. Since leaving Barclays 
he has pursued a portfolio 
business career, which in 
2012 involved a takeover with 
fellow Directors of the South of 
England based Welbeck Land 
real estate business. Martyn 
now acts as Finance Director 
for Welbeck Land and also 
maintains other interests in 
debt advisory and healthcare.
Skills and experience
Chris	graduated	fr om	Sheffield	
University	in	2003	with	a	first	
class LLB and a distinction in 
the Legal Practice Course. He 
joined Eversheds LLP , where 
he	qualified	as	a	solicitor	in	
2005 and spent 12 years as a 
corporate restructuring lawyer, 
before joining Harworth as 
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary in June 
2016.
External appointments
The Banks Group Limited,
Cussins Limited, and
Cussins (North East) 
Limited. Commissioner at The 
Port of Blyth.
External appointments
Alternate Director of Intu 
Properties plc. Director 
of multiple private limited 
companies, mostly connected 
to the Peel Group.
External appointments
Director of multiple private 
limited companies in the 
Welbeck Land Group. 
Non-Executive Director at 
Clouston Group and Conger 
Finance Limited.
External appointments
None
KEY
 A = member of the Audit Committee
 N =  member of the Nomination Committee
 R =  member of the Remuneration Committee
A =  Chair of the Audit Committee
N =  Chair of the Nomination Committee
R =  Chair of the Remuneration Committee 56 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Company’s Corporate Governance Statement.
It comprises the Statement of Corporate Governance, 
the Directors’ Remuneration report, the Audit Committee 
report, the Nomination Committee report and the 
Directors’ report. The Board is accountable to 
Shareholders for good corporate governance. We 
recognise the importance of good governance as a 
foundation for long-term value growth and are committed 
to demonstrating high standards in this regard. 
These reports explain the governance framework and 
policies we have established and, importantly, continue 
to review and develop. 
While the Company remains a standard listed Company 
on the London Stock Exchange, it aims to comply with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). I am 
pleased to report that, save as explained in the Directors’ 
report on page 90, the Company has complied with the 
2014 Code for the period under review. The revised Code 
w as 	 r eleased 	 in 	 Apri l 	 2 0 1 6 	 and 	 appl ies 	 t o 	 financial 	 periods 	
beginning on or after 17 June 2016. Changes are being 
made to the Company’s policies and procedures to 
ensure its continued compliance with the revised Code. 
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
As reported in last year’s annual report, Andrew Kirkman 
was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 as 
Finance Director. Some of the work Andrew has 
undertaken during the year has helped to improve the 
e ff ect iv eness 	 o f 	 t he 	 Board 	 in 	 monit oring 	 t he 	 oper a t ional	
and 	 financial 	 per f ormance 	 o f 	 t he 	 Gr oup .
Peter Hickson stepped down as Senior Independent 
Director at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, having 
served on the Board since July 2011. We were delighted 
to welcome Andrew Cunningham as an independent 
Non-Executive Director in his place. Lisa Clement has 
taken on the role of Senior Independent Director. We also 
took the opportunity to rotate the chairs of the 
Remuner a t ion 	 and 	 A udit 	 Commit t ees . 	 Wit h 	 e ff ect 	 fr om	
1 October 2016, Andrew Cunningham was appointed 
chair of the Audit Committee, which enabled Lisa to be 
appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee. I 
continue to chair the Nomination Committee.
We continue to adopt best practice of submitting all 
Directors for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee has carried out another 
annual review of succession planning and development 
during the year, with a view to developing a pipeline of 
potential future leaders and helping all employees reach 
their full potential. Encouraging greater diversity 
t hr oughout 	 t he 	 business 	 also 	 has 	 a 	 significan t 	 par t 	 t o 	 pla y 	
in our succession planning. The Board recognises the 
value that can be derived from a broader range of ideas, 
skills, experience and perspectives and is striving for a 
better balance at all levels within the business, in terms of 
gender and ethnicity. This continues to be an ongoing 
exercise.
LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY
We aim to deliver above market growth with the 
foundation of a strong balance sheet and a business 
capable 	 o f 	 sur viving 	 pr oper t y 	 mark e t 	 fluct ua t ions 	 wit h 	 a 	
strong recurring income stream. We set ourselves 
s t r e t ching 	 s t r a t egic 	 and 	 financial 	 object iv es 	 but 	 wit hin 	 a 	
culture of robust risk management.
The Board adds value through constructive dialogue with, 
and challenge to, the Executive Directors and wider 
Executive Committee to create accountability and drive 
performance. To that end, the composition of the Board 
is important. We recognise that it must include a balance 
of skills and experience to facilitate the objectives of the 
Company and that all Directors must have a good 
knowledge of the Company’s business and the markets 
in which it operates. We have introduced a timetable of 
site visits for our Non-Executive Directors throughout the 
year. These visits help to improve knowledge and 
understanding of our sites and, at the same time, are an 
opportunity for our Non-Executive Directors to get to 
know better the operational teams driving value growth 
from our portfolio.
There has been a strong focus on strategy and risk 
management this year. The Audit Committee has 
overseen the appointment of new insurance brokers 
after a competitive tendering process, a comprehensive 
r e v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 i n s u ra n c e 	 p r o g ra m m e 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 fi r st 	
steps towards implementing more frequent and rigorous 
reviews of risk and more robust risk management at an 
operational level. The Audit Committee report on 
pages 80 to 83 contains further details. There has also 
been a review of the Company’s delegated authorities 
p o l i cy 	 w h i c h 	 h a s 	 l e d 	 t o 	 r e v i s i o n s 	 t o 	 d efi n e 	 m o r e 	
precisely Board reserved matters.
The Board undertook its annual, comprehensive review of 
the Group’s strategy in June with external input from 
E den 	 McC allum . 	 Tha t 	 r e vie w 	 r e- a ffirmed 	 t he 	
fundamentals of the Group’s long-term strategy, which is 
outlined in the Strategic Report on page 4. The strategy 
was revisited following the EU referendum result, but the 
Board concluded that it remains robust and appropriate. 
We believe the medium-term outlook is positive given the 
market fundamentals for both housing and logistics 
remain strong. 
Chairman’s introduction FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 57
We strive for continuous improvements in the way the 
Board operates. We have given some structure to our 
annual Board evaluation by using an online platform 
designed by “Evalu8” and tailored by me and the 
Company Secretary. We have analysed the results of our 
latest evaluation and will implement action points to 
a ddr ess 	 t he 	 ar eas 	 it 	 has 	 iden t ified 	 f or 	 impr o v emen t . 	 W e 	
are also beginning to plan for Board successions. 
REMUNERATION
Our Executive Director remuneration policy and 
arrangements are designed to support the Group’s 
objectives. We continue to believe that the current 
remuneration packages are appropriate for incentivising 
management to drive long-term value growth. The 
Remuneration Policy tabled at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting received overwhelming support from 
Shareholders. A summary of the policy appears at 
pages 68 to 71. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Our Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a.m. on 
Wednesday 24 May 2017 at The Bessemer Conference 
Room, AMP Technology Centre, Advanced 
Manufacturing Park, Brunel Way, Waverley, Rotherham, 
S60 5WG. I would like to encourage all Shareholders to 
attend and look forward to meeting as many of you as 
possible.
Jonson Cox 
Chairman  
19 April 2017 58 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Statement of Corporate Governance
Board
Executive 
Directors
Audit 
Committee
Oversight, guidance and 
challenge
Operational and functional 
management
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive 
Committee
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Company is headed by a Board of Directors. Its key responsibilities are summarised in the table below. During the year, the Board, 
assisted by the Company Secretary, carried out a comprehensive review of the Group’s delegated authorities policy, which includes 
matters reserved for the Board. Examples of Board reserved matters are also set out in the table below.
Key responsibilities Examples of reserved matters
 
• Set objectives and strategy for delivery of value to 
Shareholders.
• Monitor management performance against strategy and 
targets.
• Provide constructive challenge to management proposals 
and activity.
• Stewardship of the Group’s resources and overall 
responsibility for management of the Group.
• Ultimate responsibility for risk appetite and management.
• Group strategy and budgets.
• Constitution, corporate Group, capital structure.
• Annual and half-year accounts and reports, and the declaration 
of dividends.
• The Group’s principal banking facilities and hedging 
arrangements.
• Material sales, lettings, acquisitions and joint ventures.
• Risk appetite and insurance programme.
• Appointment of Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors 
and Company Secretary.
• Policies relating to bribery, modern slavery and business 
continuity.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees. The terms of reference of those 
Committees can be found on the Group’s website at www.harworthgroup.com/investors/governance. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 59
ROLE OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee has responsibility for day-to-
day management of the Group’s business, with reference 
to, and challenge from, the Board on Board reserved 
matters. It comprises the Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and Company Secretary, together with: the 
Managing Director, Capital Growth; the Executive 
Director, Income Generation; and the Director, 
Acquisitions. The Group’s delegated authorities and 
reporting structure below Board level (which was also 
reviewed and revised last year) ensures that decisions are 
made by the most appropriate people within the 
business, with eight senior managers reporting into the 
Executive Committee.
During the year, the Chairman led an evaluation of the 
Executive Committee, with the assistance of an external 
consultant. That process was designed to identify both 
strengths and weaknesses in the way the Executive 
Committee operates and, going forward, will help to 
enhance 	 it s 	 e ff ect iv eness .	
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
Non-independent 
Non-Executive 
Directors, 2
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Directors, 3
Chairman, 1
Executive 
Directors, 2
The Board is made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive, 
Finance 	 Dir ect or 	 and 	 fiv e 	 Non -E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect ors . 	 The 	
Directors’ biographies appear on pages 54 and 55. 
The Board considers that its Non-Executive Directors 
bring the requisite judgement, knowledge and experience 
t o 	 t he 	 Board ’ s 	 deliber a t ions . 	 The y 	 ha v e 	 no 	 financial 	 or 	
contractual interests in the Group, other than interests in 
Ordinary Shares as disclosed in the Directors’ interests in 
Ordinary Shares section of the Directors’ Remuneration 
report at page 79. 
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the 
Nomina t ion 	 Commit t ee 	 t o 	 ensur e 	 an 	 e ff ect iv e 	 balance 	 o f	
skills and experience on the Board.
 
INDEPENDENCE
The Code recommends that, as a Company outside of 
the FTSE 350, the Company should have at least two 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board 
considers that Lisa Clement, Anthony Donnelly and 
Andrew Cunningham are independent and, as such, 
considers that the current balance of independent and 
non-independent Board members is appropriate. This 
will be kept under review. 
The Board recognises that Steven Underwood, who is a 
Director and representative of the Peel Group, which is the 
largest Shareholder in the Company, and Martyn Bowes, 
who is the representative of the Pension Protection Fund, 
which holds 25% of the issued capital, are not 
independent. The Board considers that their skills and 
experience are relevant to the business and they contribute 
to the realisation of the Group’ s strategy. Both Shareholder 
relationships are governed by relationship agreements. 
The Chairman, who held the role as an executive of the 
Company prior to the restructuring of the UK Coal Group in 
2012, now continues the role in a non-executive capacity, 
but the Board recognises that he is not independent. 60 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Role/Committee Key responsibilities
 
Chairman 
Jonson Cox
• O v e r a l l 	 l e a d e r s h i p 	 o f 	 th e 	 B o a rd , 	 w i th 	 re s p o n s i b i l i t y 	 fo r 	 e n s u r i n g 	 i ts 	 e ffe c ti v e n e s s 	 b y 	 f a c i l i t ati n g 	 a 	
constructive dialogue between the Board and the Executive Committee
• E n s u re s 	 th at 	 a 	 fi x e d 	 s c h e d u l e 	 o f 	 m at t e r s 	 i s 	 ret a i n e d 	 fo r 	 th e 	 B o a rd ’ s 	 rev i ew 	 a n d 	 a p p ro va l 	
• Sets the annual Board agenda programme and Board meeting agendas, with support from the 
Company Secretary, and ensures that there is adequate time available for discussion of agenda 
items 
• E n s u re s 	 th e re 	 i s 	 o n g o i n g 	 a n d 	 e ffe c ti v e 	 c o m m u n i c ati o n 	 w i th 	 S h a re h o l d e r s
 
Chief Executive
Owen Michaelson
• Responsible for all operational matters within the parameters of the authorities delegated by the 
Board
• Leads on the formulation of strategy which, once agreed by the Board, falls to him to implement
• Leads and chairs the Executive Committee
• R e s p o n s i b l e 	 fo r 	 th e 	 G ro u p ’ s 	 r i s k 	 p rofi l e , 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 h e a l th 	 a n d 	 s afet y 	 a n d 	 e n v i ro n m e nt a l 	 p o l i c i e s , 	
procedures and matters
• Ensures that the Board is appraised of all material matters
• R e s p o n s i b l e 	 fo r 	 th e 	 C o m p a n y’ s 	 p rofi l e 	 w i th 	 S h a re h o l d e r s
• Responsible for social and ethical matters within the Group
• Responsible for formulation and implementation of people strategy
 
Finance Director
Andrew Kirkman
• Supports the Chief Executive on strategy and risk
• L e a d s 	 o n 	 a l l 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 m at t e r s , 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 t a x 	 a n d 	 tre a s u r y
• Responsible for leading the raising of any new equity capital
• Leads on investor relations
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 a n a l y s i s 	 o f 	 a l l 	 m a j o r 	 tr a n s a c ti o n s 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 a c q u i s i ti o n s , 	 s a l e s 	 a n d 	 c a p i t a l 	
investments
• Responsible for insurance and pensions, in conjunction with the Company Secretary
• Responsible for controls, systems and processes, in conjunction with the Company Secretary
 
Senior Independent Director
Lisa Clement 
• Provides a sounding board for the Chairman
• Acts as an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors
• Available to Shareholders if they have concerns where communication through the Chairman or 
Executive Directors is not successful or appropriate
 
Non-Executive Directors
Lisa Clement 
Anthony Donnelly
Andrew Cunningham
Steven Underwood
Martyn Bowes
• Help to formulate a strategy for the Group and monitor the delivery of that strategy
• Provide constructive challenge to the Executive Directors on matters referred to the Board
• Scrutinise the performance of the business against the strategy, agreed objectives and targets
• R ev i ew 	 a n d 	 s c r u ti n i s e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 i n fo r m ati o n 	 a n d 	 i n t e r n a l 	 r i s k 	 c o n tro l s
• Available for meetings if requested by major Shareholders
 
Remuneration Committee 
Lisa Clement (chair)
Anthony Donnelly
Jonson Cox
Steven Underwood
• Determines and agrees with the Board the Company’s remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors
• Determines the salaries, bonuses, long-term incentive arrangements, pension arrangements 
oth e r 	 b e n e fi ts 	 a n d 	 c o n tr a c t 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 th e 	 E x e c u ti v e 	 D i re c t o r s 	 a n d 	 m e m b e r s 	 o f 	 th e 	 E x e c u ti v e 	
Committee
• C a r r i e s 	 o u t 	 a n 	 a n n u a l 	 rev i ew 	 o f 	 b e n e fi ts 	 a va i l a b l e 	 t o 	 a l l 	 G ro u p 	 e m p l oy e e s
• Responsible for changes to certain Group-wide employee policies
 
Statement of Corporate Governance
continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 61
Role/Committee Key responsibilities
 
Nomination Committee 
Jonson Cox (chair)
Lisa Clement
Andrew Cunningham
• Leads the process for Board appointments by making recommendations to the Board, both for 
fi l l i n g 	 B o a rd 	 va c a n c i e s 	 a n d 	 a p p o i n ti n g 	 a d d i ti o n a l 	 p e r s o n s 	 t o 	 th e 	 B o a rd , 	 fo l l o w i n g 	 eva l u ati o n 	 o f 	
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board 
• At least annually, carries out a review of succession and development planning for the Executive 
Directors, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee 
and certain senior managers, to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the 
Board and in the business
• Considers and makes recommendations to the Board on its composition, balance and 
membership and on the re-appointment by Shareholders of any Director 
Note: the Chairman will not chair the Committee when it deals with the appointment of a successor 
to the chairmanship. This process will be led by the Senior Independent Director
 
Audit Committee 
Andrew Cunningham (chair)
Anthony Donnelly
Steven Underwood
• Reviews the integrity of the Company’s annual and interim reports, preliminary results 
a n n o u n c e m e n ts 	 a n d 	 a n y 	 oth e r 	 fo r m a l 	 a n n o u n c e m e n ts 	 re l ati n g 	 t o 	 i ts 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 p e r fo r m a n c e
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 e ffe c ti v e n e s s 	 o f 	 th e 	 G ro u p ’ s 	 sy s t e m 	 o f 	 i n t e r n a l 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 a n d 	 r i s k 	 c o n tro l s 	 a n d 	 th e 	
Group’s insurance programme 
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 i n d e p e n d e n c e 	 a n d 	 e ffe c ti v e n e s s 	 o f 	 th e 	 C o m p a n y’ s 	 e x t e r n a l 	 a u d i t o r s 	 a n d 	 m a k e s 	
recommendations to the Board on the auditors’ remuneration
• Considers matters relating to the appointment of the Company’s auditors and the independence 
of the auditors
• Reviews and updates the Group’s risk register
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 G ro u p ’ s 	 a n ti - b r i b e r y 	 p o l i c y 	 a n d 	 oth e r 	 p o l i c i e s 	 re l ati n g 	 t o 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s e c u r i t y , 	 b u s i n e s s 	
ethics and compliance
 
Group General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Chris Birch
• Secretary to the Board and its committees
• Ensures that all Board reserved matters are referred to the Board for review and approval and 
that all Board procedures are complied with
• Advises on regulatory compliance and Corporate Governance
• Prepares Board and committee agendas and collates and distributes papers 
• Available to advise the Directors on all legal and compliance matters
• Assists the Chairman with Board evaluations and Director inductions and development
• Responsible for controls, systems and processes, in conjunction with the Finance Director
• Responsible for insurance and pensions, in conjunction with the Finance Director
  62 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
BOARD DIVERSITY
The Board recognises that, to enable it to meet its 
responsibilities, it is important that the Board’s 
composit ion 	 is 	 sufficien t ly 	 div erse 	 so 	 as 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 a 	 br oa d 	
range of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Board is conscious of the fact there is only one 
woman and no individuals of an ethnic minority amongst 
the Board and Executive Committee. The Board is 
committed to increasing the representation of women 
and ethnic minorities on the Board and in senior positions 
in the Company. The Board has not, and will not, set 
arbitrary numerical targets for diversity and future 
appointments will continue to be made based on 
objective criteria to ensure that the best candidates are 
appointed for all roles. Diversity is and will, however, 
remain an active and important consideration in all 
succession plans and when appointments are to be 
made to the Board and Executive Committee.
INSURANCE AND ADVICE FOR DIRECTORS
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors’ 
and 	 officers ’ 	 insur ance 	 f or 	 claims 	 ma de 	 a gains t 	 t he 	
Directors in that capacity. That insurance does not 
extend to fraudulent or dishonest activity. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary. The Board has established a 
procedure by which any Director, for the purpose of 
furthering his or her duties, may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense. No 
Director had reason to use this facility in 2016.
CONTRACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have 
service contracts, which may be terminated by the 
Company on not more than six months’ notice. 
Termination of the Chairman’s appointment is also 
subject to six months’ notice, whilst the appointments of 
all other Non-Executive Directors are subject to three 
mon t hs ’ 	 no t ice . 	 Ther e 	 ar e 	 no 	 Dir ect ors 	 on 	 fix ed 	 t erm 	
contracts. There are no contractual clauses that give any 
of the Directors an entitlement to compensation 
exceeding their due payment in lieu of notice.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS, CONFLICTS OF 
INTEREST AND TIME COMMITMENT
Upon appointment, each Director is required to notify the 
Company of its external board appointments, other 
significan t 	 commit men t s 	 and 	 an y 	 a ct ual 	 or 	 po t en t ial 	
con flict 	 o f 	 in t er es t . 	 Wher e 	 a 	 Dir ect or 	 pr oposes 	 t o 	 tak e 	 on 	
additional external responsibilities, the Chairman and 
Chief Executive, with advice from the Company 
Secretary, consider whether such appointment could 
giv e 	 rise 	 t o 	 po t en t ial 	 con flict s 	 o f 	 in t er es t . 	 Ea ch 	 Dir ect or 	
has 	 an 	 oppor t unit y 	 t o 	 disclose 	 a ct ual 	 or 	 po t en t ial 	 con flict s 	
of interests to the Board, either by way of general notice 
or at the beginning of each Board meeting and Board 
committee meeting. The Articles of Association provide 
t ha t 	 t he 	 Board 	 can 	 aut horise 	 a ct ual 	 and 	 po t en t ial 	 con flict s 	
of interest of Directors.
Steven Underwood and Martyn Bowes are Board 
representatives of Peel and the Pension Protection Fund 
respectively. The Board has approved any actual or 
po t en t ial 	 con flict s 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 t ha t 	 ma y 	 arise 	 as 	 a 	 r esult 	
thereof. 
Steven Underwood has previously declared by way of 
general notice, and the Board has approved, a potential 
con flict 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 arising 	 fr om 	 t he 	 f a ct 	 t ha t 	 he 	 is 	 P eel ’ s 	
Board representative and an executive Director of a 
number of Peel companies, including Peel Environmental 
Limited, with whom Harworth Estates Limited has 
entered into certain joint venture arrangements for the 
deliv er y 	 o f 	 w as t e 	 t o 	 ener gy 	 schemes 	 a t 	 fiv e 	 o f 	 t he 	
Gr oup ’ s 	 sit es . 	 No 	 a ct ual 	 con flict 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 has 	 arisen . 	
During the year, Andrew Cunningham declared by way of 
general notice, and the Board has approved, a potential 
con flict 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 arising 	 fr om 	 his 	 appoin t men t 	 as 	
Non-Executive Director of The Banks Group Limited and 
the fact that Harworth Estates Limited has entered into a 
joint venture arrangement with Banks Property Limited 
for the remediation, promotion and sale of land at the 
f ormer 	 Ba t es 	 Collier y 	 in 	 Bly t h . 	 No 	 a ct ual 	 con flict 	 o f 	
interest has arisen. Andrew Cunningham has also made 
a general declaration of interest in connection with his 
appointment as a Commissioner of The Port of Blyth, but 
no 	 con flict 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 has 	 arisen 	 in 	 t his 	 r egard . 	
The Executive Directors are also Directors of a number of 
Group subsidiary companies.
Wher e 	 a ct ual 	 or 	 po t en t ial 	 con flict s 	 o f 	 in t er es t 	 arise , 	 t he 	
relevant Director is excluded from discussions and voting 
on 	 t he 	 subject 	 ma t t er 	 t ha t 	 giv es 	 rise 	 t o 	 t he 	 con flict . 	
Each Non-Executive Director is aware of the need to 
alloca t e 	 sufficien t 	 t ime 	 t o 	 t he 	 Compan y 	 t o 	 dischar ge 	 t heir 	
r esponsibilit ies 	 e ff ect iv ely . 	 I n 	 a ddit ion 	 t o 	 Board 	 and 	 Boar d	
committee meetings, a programme of site visits has 
recently been introduced to give Non-Executive Directors 
a 	 be t t er 	 unders tanding 	 o f 	 t he 	 Group ’ s 	 k e y 	 sit es 	 and 	 a ffor d	
them an opportunity to get to know better more of the 
Group’s employees.
TENURE AND RE-ELECTION
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that 
one third of the Directors should be subject to re-election 
by Shareholders. The Board considers it good practice 
for all Directors to be subject to re-election at every 
Annual General Meeting and, as such, all Directors will 
stand for election or re-election by Shareholders at the 
2017 Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Corporate Governance
continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 63
The terms of appointment of all Directors appear on 
pages 54 and 55. Those terms range from one year to six 
years. The Board is mindful that, under the Code, 
Non-Executive Directors will be deemed to lose their 
independence 	 a f t er 	 nine 	 y ears 	 in 	 office 	 and , 	 as 	 such , 	
succession planning is underway.
EFFECTIVENESS
Induction, professional development  
and external advice
The Chairman and the Company Secretary are 
responsible for preparing and coordinating an induction 
programme when new Directors are appointed to the 
Board. Andrew Cunningham participated in that 
programme following his appointment during the year.
The members of the Remuneration Committee receive 
updates and advice from the Company’s remuneration 
advisers, Kepler Associates. The members of the Audit 
Committee receive periodic updates from the Company’s 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP including 
comments on the Group’s internal controls. The 
Company Secretary also provides updates to the Board 
and the Board committees on governance and regulatory 
changes , 	 such 	 as 	 t he 	 coming 	 in t o 	 f or ce 	 and 	 e ff ect 	 o f 	 t he	
Market Abuse Regulation during 2016. Our recent Board 
evaluation highlighted that further work needs to be done 
to formalise our programme of CPD for Directors. This will 
be looked at in the second half of 2017 .
Performance evaluation
The performance of the Board and Board committees has 
historically been reviewed by the Board on an informal basis 
throughout the year, with matters requiring attention 
iden t ified 	 and 	 a ddr essed 	 pr omp t ly . 	 A 	 f ormal 	 e v alua t ion 	
process has now been put in place, using the Evalu8 online 
platform. A full Board evaluation has been undertaken and 
the results have been analysed and fed back to the Board. 
A ct ion 	 poin t s 	 ha v e 	 been 	 iden t ified 	 t o 	 a ddr ess 	 ar eas 	
iden t ified 	 f or 	 i mpr o v emen t . 	 Sim i lar 	 e v alua t ion s 	 wi l l 	 be 	
initiated for each of the Board committees and the 
Chairman over the next 12 months. In each case, they will 
be conducted by the committee Chair, with assistance from 
the Company Secretary.
Thereafter, internal evaluations of the Board and the 
Chairman will be undertaken annually, evaluations of each 
Committee will be undertaken bi-annually and 360 reviews 
will be undertaken by Non-Executive Directors periodically. 
An external Board evaluation will be undertaken every 
3 years.
A meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, led by the 
Chairman, takes place at least annually, to appraise the 
performance of the Executive Directors. Similarly, a 
meeting of Non-Executive Directors, except the Chairman 
and led by the Senior Independent Director, is held 
annually to appraise the performance of the Chairman. 
Strategy, budget and Board information 
The Board engages in a robust process annually to review and approve the Group’s strategy and annual budget. The 
Board and Executive Committee undertook a detailed review of strategy, with external input from Eden McCallum, in 
June. The strategy will continue to be subject to internal, annual reviews, with external input periodically. In the context 
of the Group’s agreed strategy, a draft budget is prepared by the Executive Committee and presented to the Board in 
No v ember 	 ea ch 	 y ear 	 f or 	 t he 	 f ollo wing 	 financial 	 y ear . 	 The 	 Board 	 pr o vides 	 commen t 	 and 	 challenge , 	 which 	 is 	
incorporated into a revised draft for further Board review and approval in December. Activities and performance of the 
business is then monitored by the Board throughout the year against the approved strategy and budget. 
Board and Committee papers are circulated both in soft and hard copies in advance of each meeting so that all 
Directors are fully briefed. Papers are supplemented by reports and presentations, as appropriate. The papers include 
mon t hly 	 r epor t s 	 fr om 	 t he 	 Chie f 	 E x ecut iv e 	 and 	 Finance 	 Dir ect or , 	 t he 	 la t t er 	 including 	 mon t hly 	 financial 	 mana gemen t 	
information to enable the Board to monitor performance against the approved budget and strategy. Quarterly updates 
are given to the Board, on a rotating basis and both in writing and in person, by the Managing Director, Capital 
Growth; the Executive Director, Income Generation; and the Director, Acquisitions. An annual update report is given, 
both in writing and in person, by the Associate Director for EES, who has divisional responsibility for environmental and 
health and safety matters. 
Following feedback from Non-Executive Directors during this year, the Company Secretary has implemented a process 
by which Board papers are circulated not less than one full week prior to each meeting. The quality, consistency and 
presentation of Board papers has also been reviewed and improved during the year. The Company Secretary maintains 
an “Action Schedule” which records action points agreed at Board meetings. That schedule, together with the minutes 
of each meeting are reviewed by the Chairman and then, at the following Board meeting, the wider Board.
Chairman agrees 
meeting agenda 
with Company 
Secretary
Board papers 
are circulated 
in advance of 
meeting
Board meetings 
(11 times annually)
Draft minutes 
prepared and 
Action Schedule 
updated by 
Company 
Secretary
Chairman reviews 
and approves 
minutes and 
Action Schedule
Minutes and 
Action Schedule 
included in papers 
and approved at 
following Board 
meeting 64 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Statement of Corporate Governance
continued
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS
There were 11 regular Board meetings scheduled during 2016 and additional meetings held by conference call in July 
and August, following the result of the EU Referendum. Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings is shown 
in the table opposite. A timetable of site visits by Non-Executive Directors has also been introduced. 
Number of meetings attended Attendance
 
Jonson Cox 13/13 100%
Owen Michaelson 13/13 100%
Andrew Kirkman 13/13 100%
Lisa Clement 12/13 92%
Anthony Donnelly 13/13 100%
Steven Underwood 13/13 100%
Martyn Bowes 12/13 92%
Andrew Cunningham 9/9 100%
Peter Hickson 3/3 100%
 
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for 
identifying business risks, determining risk appetite and 
ensuring the maintenance of a robust systems of 
internal controls and risk management. The Strategic 
Report on pages 42 to 44 comments on the principal 
risks facing the Group. The Group has put in place a 
number of processes and controls, which are reviewed 
regularly by the Executive Committee and senior 
management team. Material changes to internal controls 
are reported to the Board. The Strategic Report at 
pages 40 and 41 and the Audit Committee report, on 
pages 82 and 83, describe in detail how risks are 
monitored and managed in the business. The principal 
internal controls of the Group are summarised below.
Delegated authorities
The Company’s delegated authorities policy, which 
determines matters reserved exclusively for the Board, 
also provides a framework for decision-making 
throughout the business, was reviewed and revised 
during the year. As a result, Board reserved matters and 
aut hor it y 	 le v e ls 	 t hr oughout 	 t he 	 busine s s 	 ar e 	 de fine d 	
more precisely.
Document approval and execution
In conjunction with the review of and revisions to the 
delegated authorities policy, the internal process for 
approval and execution of legal documents has been 
revisited and strengthened. Once transactions have been 
approved in accordance with the delegated authority 
policy, legal documents must be executed by one or two 
(as appropriate) members of the Executive Committee. 
The 	 Compan y 	 Secr e tar y 	 is 	 no t ified 	 o f , 	 and 	 main tains 	 a 	
record of, all legal documents executed on behalf of 
Group companies and this record is reported to the 
Board in the Board meeting papers each month.
Cash management
Treasury actions of the Company are limited and 
controlled jointly by the Finance Director, Chief 
Executive and Company Secretary who are responsible 
for placing deposits, for arranging borrowings and for 
making payments.
Risk register 
In March 2015 the Group undertook a review of its risks 
and risk management processes, facilitated by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . This led to the 
establishment of a Group risk register, which the Audit 
Committee reviews at least every six months. A more 
robust structure has now been put in place at an 
operational level so that risks are reviewed regularly by 
team leaders, in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary. This process at an operational level informs 
upda t es 	 t o 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 risk 	 r egis t er 	 and 	 iden t ifies 	
additional and better internal controls and processes for 
risk management. Further details are set out in the 
Strategic Report at pages 40 and 41 and in the Audit 
Committee report at pages 82 and 83. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 65
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board places great emphasis on open and regular 
communications with Shareholders. The Chief Executive 
and Finance Director meet and present to large investors, 
institutional Shareholders and analysts after the 
publication of the Company’s preliminary and interim 
results. The Company also hosted a capital markets 
morning in January 2017 in London for existing and 
potential institutional Shareholders. 
The Board regularly receives feedback from the 
Company’s brokers and the Executive Directors on the 
views of major Shareholders, particularly after publication 
of annual and half-year results. It receives reports at each 
Board meeting on the main changes to the composition 
of the Company’s share register and copies of notes 
prepared by analysts.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are 
available to meet with the Company’s Shareholders, on 
request, to discuss governance and strategy. The 
Company Secretary is also available and deals with 
Shareholder queries throughout the year.
The Company has a planned programme of 
announcements throughout the year, prepared by our 
Associate Directors of Group Partnerships and 
Communications and approved by the Executive 
Committee, and, where appropriate, the Board to ensure 
that investors are updated regularly on progress in the 
business. The annual and interim reports, together with 
the www.harworthgroup.com website, are our principal 
means of communication with all Shareholders during the 
year. Copies of all reports, Shareholder presentations and 
communications are available on the investors section of 
the website.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and/or 
Company Secretary will engage with Shareholders in the 
event of a substantial vote against any resolution 
proposed at an Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Board encourages Shareholders to attend, 
participate and exercise their right to vote at the Annual 
General Meeting. The Annual Report and Financial 
Statements and Notice of Annual General Meeting are 
sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before 
the meeting. 
The resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 24 May 2017 , together 
with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice 
of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Annual 
Report. The Notice is also available on our website at 
www.harworthgroup.com/investors/reports-presentations. 
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially 
separate issue. All Directors normally attend the Annual 
General Meeting and are available to answer questions, 
both formally during the meeting and informally both 
before and after the meeting. The Board welcomes 
questions from Shareholders, whether asked formally or 
informally before, during or after the meeting.
For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide 
Shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote 
either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote. 
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and 
counted. Information on the number of shares 
represented by proxy, the proxy votes for and against 
each resolution, and the number of shares in respect of 
which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together 
with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made 
available on the Company’s website. A vote withheld will 
not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the 
votes for and against a resolution.
Jonson Cox 
Chairman 
19 April 2017 66 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration report
Chair’s introduction
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2016 for which we will be seeking approval 
at the Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2017 . I was 
appointed Chair of the Committee during the year and 
would like to put on record the Board’s thanks to my 
predecessor, Peter Hickson, for his strong leadership of 
the Committee over a number of years. 
THE REMUNERATION POLICY
The Company’s Remuneration policy has been designed 
to align with the Group’s strategy and help to retain and 
incentivise a management team with the requisite skills, 
knowledge and experience to deliver strong, long-term, 
sustainable growth for Shareholders. We believe that the 
r emuner a t ion 	 o f 	 t he 	 E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect ors 	 r e flect s 	
appropriately the strong performance of the Group. 
The Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders 
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting with a strong 
majority of in excess of 99% of all votes cast and is 
expected to be in place until 2019. 
THIS REPORT
This report is divided into 3 sections: this Chair’s 
introduction, an ‘at a glance’ summary of the 
Remuneration policy, and the Annual Remuneration 
report, which explains how the policy was implemented in 
2016 and how it will be implemented in 2017 .
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). 
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
on a comply or explain basis. 
In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections 
of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the 
s i n g le 	 t o t al 	 fi g u r e 	 o f 	 r em u n er a t io n 	 f o r 	 Di r ec t o rs 	 an d 	
accompanying notes (pages 72 and 73); scheme interests 
a w arded 	 d u ri n g 	 t h e 	 fi n an c i al 	 y ear 	 (p a ges 	 7 4 	 an d 	 7 5 ) ; 	
payments to past Directors (page 76); and the statement of 
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (page 79). The 
remaining sections of the report are not subject to audit.
SALARY INCREASES FOR 2017
The salaries of the Executive Directors have been 
increased by 2.5%, in line with the median salary 
increases applied across the wider workforce. 
Members and attendance at meetings during the year ended 31 December 2016
 
Lisa Clement
Chair and Senior Independent Director  
(appointed Chair from 1 October 2016)
6(6)
Anthony Donnelly
Independent Non-Executive Director  
(member from 1 October 2016)
2(2)
Steven Underwood
Non-Executive Director (not independent)
5(6)
Jonson Cox
Chairman (not independent) 
6(6)
Peter Hickson
Former Chair of the Committee and Senior Independent Director 
(ceased to be a member from 26 April 2016)
2(2)
 
Key responsibilities
 
• Determines and agrees with the Board the Company’s remuneration policy 
for Executive Directors.
• Determines the salaries, bonuses, long-term incentive arrangements, pension 
a r r a n g e m e nts 	 oth e r 	 b e n e fi ts 	 a n d 	 c o ntr a c t 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 th e 	 E x e c u ti v e 	 D i re c t o r s , 	
the Chairman, and members of the Executive Committee.
• C a r r i e s 	 o u t 	 a n 	 a n n u a l 	 rev i ew 	 o f 	 b e n e fi ts 	 a va i l a b l e 	 t o 	 a l l 	 G ro u p 	 e m p l oy e e s.
• Responsible for changes to certain Group-wide employee policies.
 
The Committee’s terms of reference are set out on the Company’s website and 
can be found at www.harworthgroup.com/investors/governance/
The Board will undertake a bi-annual evaluation of the Committee’s performance 
to ensure continued ability to independently and objectively review remuneration at 
the Group.
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 67
PENSION
The pension arrangements of the Executive Directors 
remain unchanged. They may elect to receive a 
pension contribution of 10% of salary or an equivalent 
cash allowance.
BONUS
The annual bonus will continue to operate on the basis of 
a 	 combina t ion 	 o f 	 financial 	 per f ormance 	 (including 	 ne t 	
asset value, sales volume, strategic business 
de v elopmen t 	 and 	 oper a t ing 	 pr ofit ) , 	 and 	 personal 	
objectives. Bonus opportunities for 2017 will remain 
unchanged at 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and 
75% of salary for the Finance Director. 
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Shareholders 
approved the adoption of a new Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) by a strong majority of in excess of 99% of all 
v o t es 	 cas t . 	 The 	 firs t 	a w ards 	 under 	 t ha t 	 L TI P 	 w er e 	 ma de 	 t o	
Executive Directors and other members of the Executive 
Committee shortly after the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting. Following a review of the performance 
measures adopted for the 2016 awards, the Committee 
concluded that those measures remained appropriate. 
However, the total returns performance targets were 
considered by the Committee and have been adjusted to 
between 8% and 12% p.a. growth to align better with the 
Company’s plans over the next 3 years.
Key activities of the Committee since publication of the  
2015 Annual Report
 
• Reviewing the 2016 Remuneration policy approved by 
Shareholders to ensure it continues to align with Group 
strategy and Shareholders’ interests.
• Approving the Directors’ Remuneration report.
• Approving base salary increases for the Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Committee. 
• Reviewing performance against 2016 bonus targets and 
consideration of bonus payable.
• Approving 2017 bonus targets.
• Reviewing performance for LTIP awards.
• Considering changes to performance measures and 
approving 2017 LTIP awards and performance measures.
• Reviewing a report on Group-wide remuneration for 2017. 
• Approving and adopting a deferred share bonus scheme 
for the senior management team.
• Reviewing and approving proposed terms for a 
Group-wide Save As You Earn Scheme.
• Carrying out an annual review of Group-wide employee 
b e nefits .
• Approving changes to the Group’s maternity, paternity, 
adoption and shared parental leave policies.
 
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
During 2016, the Committee introduced shareholding 
guidelines of 100% of gross salary for Executive 
Directors. Until the relevant shareholding levels are 
acquired, 50% of any long-term incentive which vests to 
the relevant Executive Director (after payment of tax) 
must be retained.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT DEFERRED SHARE 
BONUS PLAN
During the year, the Committee approved the adoption of 
a deferred share bonus plan for the senior management 
team, to retain and incentivise senior members of the 
t eam 	 who 	 mak e 	 a 	 significan t 	 con t ribut ion 	 t o 	 v alue 	
growth, but are not members of the Executive Committee 
and 	 so 	 do 	 no t 	 par t icipa t e 	 in 	 t he 	 L TI P . 	 The 	 firs t 	 a w ards 	
under that new scheme were made shortly after the 
announcement of the Company’s preliminary results. 
Those awards vest subject to an absolute total return 
performance measure, which mirrors that aspect of the 
L TI P 	 a w ards . 	 An y 	 a w ards 	 t ha t 	 v es t 	 will 	 be 	 sa t is fied 	 wit h 	
shares purchased in the market. 
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The fees for the Chairman (£160,000) and the basic fees 
for Non-Executive Directors (£42,500) have remained 
unchanged 	 during 	 2 0 1 6 	 and 	 f or 	 2 0 1 7 . 	 Wit h 	 e ff ect 	 fr om	
1 October 2016, Andrew Cunningham receives an 
additional fee of £7 ,500 for chairing the Audit Committee, 
and I receive additional fees of £7 ,500 for chairing the 
Remuneration Committee and £3,000 as Senior 
Independent Director. The Committee considers that 
t hese 	 f ees 	 r e flect 	 appr opria t ely 	 t he 	 a ddit ional 	 w ork 	 and 	
responsibilities associated with the roles undertaken. 
SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME
The Committee is keen to strengthen employee 
engagement in the business and is supportive of wider 
share ownership by employees. To that end, the 
Committee is proposing a Save As You Earn scheme for 
all 	 emplo y ees 	 b y 	 which 	 shar es 	 will 	 be 	 off er ed 	 t o	
employees at a 20% discount to current market value. 
This will be put to Shareholders for approval at the 2017 
Annual General Meeting. 
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to 
respond to questions and discuss any aspect of the 
Remuneration policy, Annual Remuneration report or the 
Committee’s activities. 
Lisa Clement 
Chair of Remuneration Committee 
19 April 2017 68 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Our Remuneration policy was approved by Shareholders at the 2016 AGM with more than 99% of votes in favour and is expected to 
continue until 2019. The full policy can be found in last year’s report, which is also on the Company’s website (www.harworthgroup.com/
investors), and a summary is outlined below.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES 
Attract, retain and motivate  
high calibre executives
Reflect	best	practice,	investor	
expectations and pay conditions 
across the workforce
Reward exceptional  
performance
Align pay with the Group’s  
long-term strategic plan and 
value created for Shareholders 
SALARY
What is it for? How is it determined? How much is it?
    
To provide competitive base 
reward that recognises the 
individual’s skill and experience
Salaries are reviewed annually 
with reference to similar roles at 
comparable companies, individual 
contribution and experience, and 
the average pay review across the 
workforce
+2.5% for 2017, in line with average annual pay review across the Group
 1 January 2016 1 January 2017
CEO £293,550 £301,000
FD £200,000 £205,000
    
PENSION AND BENEFITS
What is it for? What does it consist of? How much is it?
    
T o	pr ovide	competitive	benefits Group pension scheme or cash 
in lieu
Car allowance and fuel (or such 
other	benefits	that	the	Committee	
deems appropriate)
10% of salary
 
Varies by role and individual circumstances, cost is reviewed periodically
    
ANNUAL BONUS
What is it for? How does it operate? What performance is measured? How much is it?
    
To incentivise and reward strong 
performance	against	financial	and	
personal annual targets, aligned 
with progress against the strategic 
plan and value delivered to 
Shareholders 
Paid in cash*
Malus and clawback apply (up to 
2 years post-employment) in case 
of misconduct, misstatement, 
miscalculation or at the 
Committee’s discretion
*If bonuses are (exceptionally) 
>100% of salary, any amount over 
100% of salary would be deferred 
in shares for up to 3 years 
At	least	75%	financial	and	no	
more than 25% personal, with 
Committee discretion to add 
underpins or override outcomes 
if they are misaligned with 
underlying performance 
2017 performance conditions:
 CEO FD
Financial* 75% 75%
Personal** 25% 25%
Payment subject to health and 
safety, business reputation, 
covenant	compliance,	financial	
irregularity and leadership 
underpins 
* NAV gains (60%), sales volume 
(15%), operating profit (10%)  
and strategic development of the 
business (15%)
** Payment of personal element 
subject to achieving a payment 
under the financial element
Up to 100% of salary 
(or exceptionally 150%)
Maximum for 2017:
CEO 100% of salary
FD 75% of salary
What pays out?
(as a% of maximum)
 
Below Target 0%
Target 50%
Maximum 100%
    
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
Remuneration policy – at a glance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 69
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP)
What is it for? How does it operate? What performance is measured? How much is it?
    
To drive sustained long-term 
performance that supports value 
creation for Shareholders
3-year performance period
2-year holding period post-vesting 
on 50% of all vested shares
50% of any vested shares 
(after-tax) must be held until 
Executive Director achieves a 
shareholding of 100% of salary in 
Harworth
Dividends accrue on shares that 
vest
Malus and clawback may apply 
(up to 2 years post-employment) 
in case of misconduct, 
misstatement, miscalculation 
or	a	significant	health,	safety	or	
environmental incident
At least 2 measures, linked 
to strategy, with Committee 
discretion to add underpins 
or override outcomes if they 
are misaligned with underlying 
performance
2017 performance conditions:
50% on Total Shareholder Return 
between median and median  
+9% p.a.*
50% on Absolute Total Return  
(NAV growth + dividends) between 
8%, 10% and 12% p.a. growth
Vesting subject to disposal 
proceeds and sustainable dividend 
underpins 
*70% vs tailored peer Group 
comprising Inland Homes, Henry 
Boot, U+I, Urban and Civic and 
St. Modwen and 30% vs FTSE 
All Share Real Estate Investment 
Services Index 
100% of salary for all Executive 
Directors (or exceptionally 200%)
What pays out?
(as a% of maximum)
 
 TSR ATR
Below Threshold 0% 0%
Threshold 12½% 5%
Target  12½%
Maximum 50% 50%
 
 
TSR = Total Shareholder Return
ATR = Absolute Total Return
     70 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
TIMING OF 2017 PAY
CEO pay 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
 
Salary £301k
Pension 10% of salary
Benefits c.£10k
Annual bonus up to 100% of salary
LTIP up to 100% of salary  50% held for at least 2 years 
FD pay 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
 
Salary £205k
Pension 10% of salary
Benefits c.£10k
Annual bonus up to 75% of salary
LTIP up to 100% of salary  50% held for at least 2 years 
PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS FOR 2017 PAY ( £’000s)
£0 £100 £200 £300 £400 £500 £600 £700 £800 £900 £1,000
Owen Michaelson
Minimum 100% £343
60% 26% £569 13%
36% 32% £945 32%
On-target
Maximum
Single figure of total remuneration (£000s)
Fixed pay
Annual bonus
LTIP
Fixed pay
Annual bonus
LTIP
£0 £100 £200 £300 £400 £500 £600 £700 £800 £900 £1,000
Andrew Kirkman
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Single figure of total remuneration (£000s)
100% £238
65% 21% £366 14%
40% 26% 34% £597
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
Remuneration policy – at a glance (continued) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 71
Performance scenario Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
    
Minimum
Salary (as at 1 January 2017) plus 
Pension (10% of salary) plus  
Benefits	(based	on	2016	actual)
None None
On-target 50% of maximum 25% of maximum
Maximum 100% of maximum 100% of maximum
NED FEES
How are they structured? What are the fees in 2017?
  
Chairman receives a single all-inclusive fee, set by the Committee 
NEDs receive a base fee plus additional fees for acting as a Committee 
Chair or Senior Independent Director. Their fees are set by the Chairman 
and Executive Directors.
No change since 2016
 1 January 2017
Chairman fee £160,000
NED base fee £42,500
Audit and Remuneration Committee Chair £7,500
Senior Independent Director £3,000
   72 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Membership, attendance, key responsibilities and activities of the Committee are summarised in the Chair’s introduction.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee. The following individuals may be invited to attend Committee meetings on certain 
occasions to provide advice and to help the Committee to make informed decisions: 
• O w e n 	 M i c h ae l s o n , 	 C h i ef 	 E x e c u t i v e 	 O ffi c e r
• Andrew Kirkman, Finance Director
• Laura Ibbotson, Group HR Manager
• Representatives of Kepler Associates (see further below).
No individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee has retained Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer and part of the MMC Group of companies (“Kepler”), to provide 
independent advice on executive remuneration matters. Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2015 following a competitive selection 
pr ocess , 	 t hr ough 	 which 	 t he 	 Commit t ee 	 has 	 sa t is fied 	 it self 	 t ha t 	 K epler’ s 	 a dvice 	 is 	 object iv e 	 and 	 independen t . 	 K epler 	 is 	 a 	 signa t or y 	 t o 	 t he 	
Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found on the Remuneration Consulting Group’s website 
at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Services provided by Kepler during the period under review included advice on the overall 
remuneration packages for the Executive Directors, assistance with putting in place the new LTIP including advice on the structure and 
k e y 	 t erms 	 o f 	 t he 	 scheme , 	 a dvising 	 on 	 t he 	 per f ormance 	 condit ions 	 f or 	 t he 	 firs t 	 a w ards 	 under 	 t he 	 L TI P 	 scheme 	 and 	 dr a f t ing 	 t he 	 Dir ect or’ s 	
remuneration report, as well as other ad-hoc advice related to remuneration. The fees paid to Kepler in relation to advice provided to the 
Committee for 2016 were £22,765. The Committee evaluates the support provided by Kepler annually. Other than advice on remuneration, 
no other services were provided by Kepler to the Group. During the year, the Company appointed Marsh, which is also a member of the 
MMC Group of companies, as its new insurance brokers (for further information see the Audit Committee report on page 82). The 
Committee considered that appointment and concluded that it does not impair Kepler’s independence.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
None of the Executive Directors currently hold external appointments. 
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The 	 table 	 belo w 	 se t s 	 out 	 a 	 single 	 figur e 	f or 	 t he 	 t o tal 	 r emuner a t ion 	 r eceiv ed 	 b y 	 ea ch 	 E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect or 	 o f 	 t he 	 Compan y 	 f or 	 t he 	 financial 	y ear	
ended 31 December 2016 and the previous year, representing payments received in respect of the period for which each individual was a 
Director of the Company
(1)
. 
Owen 
Michaelson
(2)
Andrew 
Kirkman
Michael 
Richardson
(2,3)
Jeremy 
Hague
(4)
    
2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 2015
£ £ £ £ £ £
       
Salary 293,550 213,750 200,000 26,667 136,144 39,291
T axable	benefits
(5)
12,320 9,428 12,857 1,728 7,524 3,333
Relocation allowance – – 75,000 – – –
Single-year variable
(6)
264,195 235,003 138,375 24,893 86,383 15,000
Multiple-year variable
(7)
 – – – – – –
Pension	benefit
(8)
29,355 21,375 20,000 2,667 13,614 7,858
 29,355 21,375 20,000 2,667 13,614 7,858
Total 599,420 479,556 446,232 55,955 243,665 65,482
       
(1)
  The 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements reported that Jonson Cox held the role of Executive Chairman prior to the Company’s acquisition of HEPGL. In 
fact, Jonson Cox ceased to be Executive Chairman and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Company in December 2012. As such, he does not appear in the 
table 	 abo v e. 	 Inst e ad , 	 the 	 f e e s 	 paid 	 t o 	 him 	 during 	 2 0 1 5 	 appe ar 	 in 	 the 	 “Single 	 t o tal 	 figure 	 o f 	 remuneration 	 f or 	 Non-E x e cutiv e 	 D ire ct ors” 	 table 	 be lo w .
(2)
		 Ow en 	 Michae lson 	 and 	 Michae l 	 Richar dson 	 be came 	 E x e cutiv e 	 D ire ct ors 	 o f 	 the 	 Compan y 	 with 	 immediat e 	 eff e ct 	 upon 	 its 	 acquisition 	 o f 	 HE PGL 	 on 	 2 4 	 Mar ch 	 2 0 1 5 .
(3)
	 Michae l 	 Richar dson 	 st epped 	 do wn 	 as 	 a 	 D ire ct or 	 o f 	 the 	 Compan y 	 and 	 lef t 	 with 	 eff e ct 	 fr om 	 2 9 	 F ebr uar y 	 2 0 1 6 .	
(4)
	 Jerem y 	 Hague 	 st epped 	 do wn 	 as 	 a 	 D ire ct or 	 o f 	 the 	 Compan y 	 and 	 lef t 	 with 	 eff e ct 	 fr om 	 30 	 A pril 	 2 0 1 5 .
(5)
		 T a xable 	 benefits 	 consist 	 primarily 	 o f 	 car 	 and 	 f ue l 	 allo w ance. 	 F or 	 2 0 1 6 	 the se 	 w ere 	 £ 1 1 , 5 7 9 	 f or 	 Ow e n 	 Michae lson 	 ( £ 8 , 68 2 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 ) , 	 £ 1 2 , 4 1 7 	 f or 	 A ndrew 	 K ir k man 	 and 	
£ 1 , 6 0 1 	 f or 	 Michae l 	 Richar dson 	 ( £ 7 , 448 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 ) . 	 O ther 	 benefits 	 included 	 lif e 	 assurance 	 and 	 he alth 	 insurance.
(6)
  Annual bonus payments for performance during 2016 were received by Owen Michaelson and Andrew Kirkman, details of which are included below in “Incentive 
outcomes for year ending 31 December 2016”. The Annual bonus for 2016 was paid in March 2017. As disclosed in last year’s annual report, as a good leaver 
Mr 	 Richar dson 	 w as 	 entitled 	 t o 	 benefit 	 fr om 	 2 1 4 , 1 3 2 	 share s 	 o f 	 1 p 	 e ach 	 issued 	 t o 	 him 	 under 	 a 	 def er red 	 bonus 	 scheme 	 conne ct ed 	 t o 	 the 	 Compan y ’ s 	 acquisition 	 o f 	
Harworth Estates. Those shares vested on 29 February 2016 and were valued at the closing price on that date of 11.625p. See last year’s annual remuneration 
report for details of annual bonus payments for performance during 2015. 
(7)
 No LTIP awards vested based on performance periods ending during 2015 or 2016.
(8)
		 Ow en 	 Michae lson , 	 A ndrew 	 K ir k man , 	 Michae l 	 Richar dson 	 and 	 Jerem y 	 Hague 	 all 	 par ticipat ed 	 in 	 the 	 Compan y ’ s 	 defined 	 contribution 	 scheme , 	 in 	 re lation 	 t o 	 which 	
the Company contributed 10% of salary to Owen Michaelson, Andrew Kirkman and Michael Richardson, and 20% of salary to Jeremy Hague.
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
Annual Remuneration report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 73
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The 	 table 	 belo w 	 se t s 	 out 	 a 	 single 	 figur e 	 f or 	 t he 	 t o tal 	 r emuner a t ion 	 r eceiv ed 	 b y 	 ea ch 	 Non -E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect or 	 o f 	 t he 	
Compan y 	 f or 	 t he 	 financial 	 y ears 	 ended 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 5 	 and 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 r epr esen t ing 	 pa ymen t s 	 r eceiv ed 	
in respect of the period for which each individual was a Director of the Company. 
Base fee
Committee 
chair fees SID fee Total
    
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
£ £ £ £ £ £ £
         
J. Cox
(1)
160,000 286,500 – – – n/a 160,000 286,500
L. Clement
(2)
42,500 41,875 7,500 7,125 750 n/a 50,750 49,000
P . Hickson
(3)
21,667 65,000 – – – – 21,667 65,000
S. Underwood
(4)
42,500 41,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a 42,500 41,875
A. Donnelly 42,500 31,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a 42,500 31,875
M. Bowes 42,500 31,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a 42,500 31,875
A. Cunningham
(5)
29,008 n/a 1,200 n/a n/a n/a 30,208 n/a
         
(1)
		 In 	 2 0 1 5 	 Jonson 	 Co x 	 w as 	 paid 	 base 	 f e e s 	 o f 	 £ 1 8 2 , 50 0 , 	 ta xable 	 be nefits 	 o f 	 £ 4 , 0 0 0 	 and 	 a 	 bonus 	 o f 	 £ 1 0 0 , 0 0 0 , 	 f ull 	 details 	 o f 	 which 	 can 	 be 	
found in last year’s Annual Remuneration report.
(2)
  Going forward, Lisa Clement will receive an annual fee of £3,000 per annum for her role as Senior Independent Director in addition to a fee 
o f 	 £ 7 , 50 0 	 f or 	 her 	 r ole 	 as 	 Chair 	 o f 	 the 	 Remuneration 	 Commit t e e. 	 T he 	 figure 	 f or 	 2 0 1 6 	 refle cts 	 that 	 she 	 w as 	 appoint ed 	 t o 	 that 	 r ole 	 on 	
1 October 2016.
(3)
  On appointment to what was UK Coal plc, Peter Hickson agreed a single consolidated fee for his role as Non-Executive Director, Senior 
Independent 	 and 	 Remuneration 	 Commit t e e 	 Chair man . 	 T his 	 f e e 	 refle ct ed 	 the 	 substantial 	 commitme nt 	 as 	 Se nior 	 Indepe nde nt 	 D ire ct or 	 t o 	
the restructuring of the Group. Mr Hickson ceased to be a Director of the Company on 26 April 2016.
(4)
 The fees for Steven Underwood are paid to Peel Management Limited.
(5)
  Andrew Cunningham receives a base fee of £42,500 as Non-Executive Director and a fee of £7 ,500 for his role as Chair of the Audit 
Commit t e e. 	 T he 	 f e e s 	 ent ered 	 refle ct 	 that 	 he 	 w as 	 appoint ed 	 t o 	 the 	 Boar d 	 on 	 2 6 	 A pril 	 2 0 1 6 	 and 	 as 	 Chair 	 o f 	 the 	 Audit 	 Commit t e e 	 with 	 eff e ct 	
from 1 October 2016.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
Annual bonus
Annual 	 bonuses 	 f or 	 2 0 1 6 	 w er e 	 paid 	 t o 	 bo t h 	 E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect ors 	 based 	 on 	 a 	 combina t ion 	 o f 	 financial 	 per f ormance 	 and 	
personal objectives. Maximum annual bonus opportunities were 100% of salary for Owen Michaelson and 75% of 
salar y 	 f or 	 Andr e w 	 K irkman . 	 P er f ormance 	 w as 	 measur ed 	 based 	 80 % 	 on 	 financial 	 and 	 2 0 % 	 on 	 personal 	 per f ormance 	
f or 	 Ow en 	 Micha elson 	 and 	 7 5 % 	 and 	 2 5 % 	 on 	 financial 	 and 	 personal 	 per f ormance 	 r espect iv ely 	 f or 	 Andr e w 	 Kirkman . 	
Performance against targets and subsequent vesting of 2016 annual bonuses are set out in the tables below. 
Financial performance outcomes
For 2016 bonuses, no bonus is paid for achieving below Target, 50% of bonus is paid for achieving Target, increasing 
on a straight-line basis to 100% of bonus paid for achieving Stretch performance.
Performance targets
(£’000s)
  
Measure 
Weight  
(% of financial 
performance) ‘Target’ ‘Stretch’
Actual 
performance
Vesting 
outcome
 
NAV gains 60% 34,800 43,500 43,700 100%
Sales volume 20%
(1)  54,000 60,000 61,700
(2)  100%
Operating	pr ofit 10%
(1)  2,180 3,000 2,216 52%
Financial headroom 10% Absolute target 
only
10,000 49,162 100%
 
T otal	vesting	on	financial	performance	
outcomes
Owen Michaelson (80% weighting)
 
Andrew Kirkman (75% weighting)
 
(1)
  Note, in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements the weightings for these elements of the 2016 Group performance targets were 
incorrectly stated as 15% for each element.
(2)
	 T his 	 sale s 	 figure 	 include s 	 int er nal 	 sale s 	 f or 	 dire ct 	 dev e lopme nt 	 and 	 sale s 	 b y 	 joint 	 v e nture s . 74 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Personal performance outcomes
Executive Director Achievements during the year
Vesting of 
component
   
O. Michaelson (20% weighting) • To deliver strategic development of Harworth consistent with aspiration to 
(i) increase net asset value by 10% p.a. through the property cycle over the next 
fi v e	 y e a r s , 	 ( i i ) 	 o v e r 	 ti m e , 	 c o v e r 	 a l l 	 o p e r ati n g 	 c o s ts , 	 i nt e re s t , 	 t a x 	 a n d 	 d i v i d e n d s 	 f ro m	
ongoing recurring income, and (iii) develop the Group to optimise performance 
a s 	 a 	 l e a d i n g 	 b ro w n fi e l d 	 re g e n e r ati o n 	 s p e c i a l i s t , 	 t o 	 i n c l u d e 	 ( b u t 	 n ot 	 l i m i t e d 	 t o ) :
 > a 5-year board approved strategic plan;
 > clear progress in building and delivery of acquisition book to replenish sites 
sold;
 > managing the team to set sights on stretching, strategic targets and take on 
more operational responsibility to free up strategic development time for 
Chief Executive; and
 > building network of contacts necessary to implement strategy.
70%
   
A. Kirkman (25% weighting) • T o 	 m a n a g e 	 i n v e s t o r 	 re l ati o n s : 	 b u i l d 	 i n v e s t o r 	 b a s e 	 a n d 	 e ffe c ti v e 	 c o v e r a g e 	 o f 	 th e 	
business.
• To establish clear tax strategy for 5-year business plan and put in place 
monitoring systems to ensure preservation of tax position.
• T o 	 l e a d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 a n a l y s i s 	 o f 	 b u s i n e s s 	 p l a n 	 rev i ew .
• E ffe c ti v e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 a n a l y s i s 	 o f 	 a l l 	 n ew 	 b u s i n e s s 	 o p p o r tu n i ti e s. 	 C l e a r 	 p e r fo r m a n c e 	
and risk management reporting to the Board.
• T o 	 d e m o n s tr at e 	 l e a d e r s h i p 	 o n 	 c a s h - fl o w 	 m a n a g e m e nt .
84%
   
Overall bonus outcomes
 Overall bonus outcome
Financial Personal vesting
Sum product of 
weighting and vest%
   
Executive Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting % of bonus % of salary
 
O. Michaelson 80% 95% 20% 70% 90% 90%
A. Kirkman 75% 95% 25% 84% 92% 69%
       
The 	 o v er all 	 bonus 	 out comes 	 f or 	 t he 	 Chie f 	 E x ecut iv e 	 and 	 Finance 	 Dir ect or 	 r e flect 	 a 	 s t r ong 	 y ear 	 o f 	 per f ormance 	 f or 	 t he 	
business, with net asset value growth of 12.5% and increased stability in the Group’s recurring income stream.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING 2016
2016 LTIP awards
LTIP awards of 100% of salary were made in 2016 to Owen Michaelson and Andrew Kirkman under the new 2016 
LTIP , the details of which were outlined in last year’s report and are summarised on page 69.
Executive 
Director Type of award Date of award
Number of 
shares granted Face value
(1)
% receivable  
at threshold
(2)
End of 
performance 
period
 
O. Michaelson 2016 LTIP 25 May 2016 313,957 £293,550 17.5% 25 May 2019
A. Kirkman 2016 LTIP 25 May 2016 213,903 £200,000 17.5% 25 May 2019
       
(1)
 Face value based on the average share price on the three trading days immediately preceding the date of grant of 93.5p
(2)
  25% vesting for threshold performance of 50% of the award based on TSR performance and 10% vesting for threshold performance of 
50% of the award based on ATR performance.
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
Annual Remuneration report (continued) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 75
For all participants, awards will vest after three years in accordance with the performance conditions outlined in the 
table below, subject to achieving the additional underpins that 30% of value created comes from disposal proceeds 
and that dividends are sustainable. For Executive Directors, 50% of any vested shares will be subject to a minimum 
two-year post-vesting holding period. No award will vest below threshold performance and vesting will increase on a 
s t r aigh t - line 	 basis 	 be t w een 	 de fined 	 le v els 	 o f 	 per f ormance . 	
Total Shareholder return
(1)
  
(50% weighting)
Absolute total return 
(50% weighting)
Vesting schedule
3-year TSR 
outperformance  
of median p.a.
% of  
element  
vesting
3-year  
TR p.a.
% of  
element  
vesting
     
Threshold 0% 25% 8% 10%
Target 10% 25%
Maximum 9% 100% 14% 100%
     
(1)
  For 2016 awards, 70% of the TSR outperformance condition is measured vs the median of Harworth’s 5 closest listed peers: Inland 
Homes, Henry Boot, U+I, Urban and Civic and St. Modwen, and 30% vs the FTSE All Share Real Estate Investment Services Index.
Harworth Estates LTIP
As disclosed last year, on his appointment in January 2016, the Committee resolved to award 60 units (previously held 
by Michael Richardson, but forfeited by him upon his departure from the Company) to Andrew Kirkman in recognition 
of his anticipated contribution to growth in net asset value from the date of his appointment on 1 January 2016 until 
31 December 2017 when the performance measures under the scheme will be tested.
The full details of the scheme are provided in the notes to the Remuneration policy in last year’s report. Details of the 
scheme interests awarded to Andrew Kirkman on appointment are outlined below, together with the scheme interests 
that had been awarded to Owen Michaelson at the outset of the scheme.
Performance conditions
Executive
Number of  
units granted Threshold Target Stretch
 
O. Michaelson 275
£ value created:
£121m £150m £231m
A. Kirkman 60
£ per unit:
£600 £2,600 £5,000
     
Any vesting of units under the Harworth Estates LTIP is subject to one-third of value created coming from disposal 
proceeds.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION
The 	 table 	 belo w 	 sho w s 	 ho w 	 t he 	 per cen ta ge 	 change 	 in 	 t he 	 Chie f 	 E x ecut iv e ’ s 	 salar y , 	 bene fit s 	 and 	 bonus 	 be t w een 	 2 0 1 5 	
and 2016 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the 
employees of the Group as a whole.
Salary  
£’000
Percentage 
change
Taxable benefits 
£’000
Percentage 
change
Bonus 
£’000
Percentage 
change
    
2016 2015
(1)
2016 2015 2016 2015
          
CEO Pay 294 285 3% 10 9.5 5% 264 235 12%
          
Average per 
employee
3% 0% 22%
 
(1)
 Annual base salary at 24 March 2015, upon acquisition of HEPGL 76 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
Total employee pay expenditure Distributions to Shareholders
  
2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change
      
£5.806m £3.52m 65% £2.2m £2.0m (annualised) 10%
      
Sta ff 	 cos t s 	 incr eased 	 mark edly 	 be t w een 	 2 0 1 5 	 and 	 2 0 1 6 	 due 	 t o : 	 (i) 	 an 	 incr ease 	 in 	 t he 	 number 	 o f 	 s ta ff 	 emplo y ed ;	
(ii) 	 higher 	 bonuses ; 	 and 	 (iii) 	 t he 	 f a ct 	 t ha t 	 s ta ff 	 cos t s 	 f or 	 2 0 1 5 	 only 	 r ela t ed 	 t o 	 t he 	 period 	 a f t er 	 t he 	 Compan y ’ s 	 a cquisit ion	
o f 	 HEPGL 	 on 	 2 4 	 Mar ch 	 2 0 1 5 . 	 I f 	 HEPGL 	 ha d 	 been 	 a cquir ed 	 f or 	 a 	 full 	 y ear , 	 t he 	 s ta ff 	 cos t s 	 w ould 	 ha v e 	 been 	 £ 4 . 6 7 5 m ,	
and therefore an increase of 24% between 2015 and 2016.
A 	 firs t 	 dividend 	 o f 	 £ 0 . 5 1 	 per 	 shar e 	 w as 	 paid 	 t o 	 Shar eholders 	 f or 	 t he 	 y ear 	 ended 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 5 	 r esult ing 	 in 	 t o tal 	
dividends 	 o f 	 £ 1 . 5 m 	 ( £2 . 0m 	 on 	 an 	 annualised 	 basis ) . 	 T o tal 	 dividends 	 f or 	 t he 	 financial 	 y ear 	 ended 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 1 6 	 ar e 	
£0.753p per share, resulting in total dividends of £2.2m (ignoring the Company’s equity placing in March 2017). 
REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE
The following graph charts the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the Company and the FTSE Small Cap Index over 
the period from the Company’s re-listing on 24 March 2015 to 31 December 2016. The FTSE Small Cap Index 
represents the most appropriate broad index comparison for a Company of Harworth’s size. The table below shows 
t he 	 Chie f 	 E x ecut iv e ’ s 	 ‘ single- figur e ’ 	 r emuner a t ion 	 o v er 	 t he 	 same 	 period .
Historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over the period from re-listing on 24 March 2015 to 
31 December 2016:
£0
£50
£100
£150
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 24 March 2015
Harworth, £108
FTSE Small Cap, £117
Value of £100 invested at 
24 March 2015
Historical CEO remuneration
2015 2016
£ £
   
CEO	single	figur e	r emuneration	(	£’000) 480 600
Short term incentive award as a% of maximum opportunity 85.6% 90%
Long term incentive award as a% of maximum opportunity n/a n/a
   
PAYMENT PAID TO PAST DIRECTORS
During the year, no payments were made to past Directors other than those included in the Single Figure Table on page 72.
EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR
No exit payments were paid to former Directors during the year.
Annual Remuneration report (continued) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 77
IMPLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2017
Base salary
Positioning of base salary is approached on an individual basis, taking account of advice received from the 
Committee’s independent advisors on the rates of salary for similar roles in selected Groups of comparable companies, 
the individual performance and experience of each Executive Director and increases awarded to the wider workforce.
The Committee approved the following base salary increases for 2017: 
Executive Director
Annual base salary at  
1 January 2016
Annual base salary at  
1 January 2017
Percentage  
increase
    
O. Michaelson £293,550 £301,000 2.5%
A. Kirkman £200,000 £205,000 2.5%
    
A 	 t ypical 	 salar y 	 incr ease 	 o f 	 2 . 5 % 	 w as 	 a w arded 	 acr oss 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 a t 	 t he 	 annual 	 pa y 	 r e vie w , 	 e ff ect iv e 	 1 	 Januar y 	 2 0 1 7 .
Pension
Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution of 10% of salary or an equivalent cash allowance.
Performance related annual bonus
For 2017 the Committee has approved the following annual bonus opportunities for Executive Directors, unchanged 
fr om 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 The 	 Chie f 	 E x ecut iv e ’ s 	 and 	 Finance 	 Dir ect or’ s 	 bonuses 	 will 	 ea ch 	 be 	 based 	 7 5 % 	 on 	 financial 	 measur es 	 and 	
25% on personal objectives, as detailed below:
Executive
Maximum financial 
bonus opportunity
(% of salary)
Maximum personal 
bonus opportunity
(% of salary)
Overall maximum  
bonus opportunity
(% of salary)
    
O. Michaelson 75% 25% 100%
A. Kirkman 56.25% 18.75% 75%
    
The 	 Commit t ee 	 has 	 r e vie w ed 	 t he 	 financial 	 per f ormance 	 measur es 	 t o 	 ensur e 	 t he y 	 ar e 	 appr opria t ely 	 aligned 	 wit h 	 t he 	
Company’s strategic plan for the coming year. Financial performance for 2017 will be measured against the following 
fin anci al 	 p er f o rm ance 	 m ea s ur es :
Executive
Weight
(% of financial bonus 
opportunity)
 
NAV gains 60%
Sales volume 15%
Operating	pr ofit 10%
Strategic development of business 15%
  
P a ymen t 	 o f 	 t he 	 personal 	 elemen t 	 is 	 subject 	 t o 	 a chie ving 	 a 	 pa ymen t 	 under 	 t he 	 financial 	 per f ormance 	 condit ion . 	 The 	
overall payment of the bonus will be subject to achieving additional underpins based on the Company’s health and 
sa f e t y 	 r ecord 	 during 	 t he 	 financial 	 y ear , 	 no 	 de ficiencies 	 or 	 ma t erially 	 a dv erse 	 issues 	 arising 	 which 	 ma t erially 	 dama ge 	 t he 	
r eputa t ion 	 or 	 per f ormance 	 o f 	 t he 	 business , 	 no 	 co v enan t 	 br ea ch 	 or 	 financial 	 irr egularit y 	 and 	 no 	 ma t erial 	 issues 	 r ela t ing 	
to leadership of the business.
Performance targets are considered to be commercially sensitive at this time but the Committee intends that they will 
be disclosed in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration report. 78 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued
LTIP
LTIP awards of 100% of salary have been made in 2017 to Owen Michaelson and Andrew Kirkman under the 2016 
LTIP scheme, the details of which are outlined in the Remuneration Policy Report in last year’s report on page 33. For 
all participants, awards will vest after three years in accordance with the performance conditions outlined in the table 
below, subject to achieving the additional underpins that 30% of value created comes from disposal proceeds and 
that dividends are sustainable. No award will vest below threshold performance and vesting will increase on a 
s t r aigh t - line 	 basis 	 be t w een 	 t he 	 de fined 	 le v els 	 o f 	 per f ormance 	 sho wn 	 in 	 t he 	 table 	 belo w . 	 E x ecut iv e 	 Dir ect ors 	 will 	 be 	
required to hold 50% of any shares that vest (post-tax) for an additional two years post-vesting.
Total Shareholder return
(1) 
(50% weighting)
Absolute total return 
(50% weighting)
Vesting schedule
3-year TSR 
outperformance 
of median p.a.
% of element 
vesting 
3-year Group  
TR p.a.
% of element 
vesting 
     
Threshold 0% 25% 8% 10%
Target 10% 25%
Maximum 9% 100% 12% 100%
     
(1)  
F or 	 2 0 1 7 	 a w ar ds , 	 7 0 % 	 o f 	 the 	 TSR 	 outper f or mance 	 condition 	 is 	 me asured 	 vs . 	 the 	 median 	 o f 	 the 	 Compan y ’ s 	 fiv e 	 close st 	 list ed 	 pe ers : 	 Inland 	
Homes, Henry Boot, U+I, Urban and Civic and St. Modwen, and 30% vs. the FTSE All Share Real Estate Investment Services Index.
IMPLEMENTATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2017
• The Chairman of the Board receives a fee of £160,000 per annum, unchanged from 2016.
• Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee of £42,500 per annum, unchanged from 2016.
• An additional fee of £7 ,500 per annum is payable to each of the Chair of the Audit Committee (Andrew Cunningham) 
and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee (Lisa Clement) for chairing those respective committees. No additional 
fee is paid to the Chairman for chairing the Nomination Committee. 
• A further additional fee of £3,000 is paid to Lisa Clement as Senior Independent Director. 
• The fee payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee remains unchanged from 2016. The fees payable to the 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director were agreed during the course of the year. 
They had not been paid previously because those roles had been occupied by Peter Hickson who, on his 
appointment to the then UK Coal plc, had agreed a unitary fee for his roles as Non-Executive Director, Senior 
Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Remuneration report (continued) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 79
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS 
A 	 table 	 se t t ing 	 out 	 t he 	 bene ficial 	 in t er es t s 	 o f 	 t he 	 Dir ect ors 	 and 	 t heir 	 f amilies 	 in 	 t he 	 shar e 	 capital 	 o f 	 t he 	 Compan y 	 as 	 a t 	
19 April 2017 (taking account of the participation by certain of the Directors in the Company’s equity placing 
announced on 17 March 2017 and being the latest possible date prior to the publication of this report) is set out below. 
None 	 o f 	 t he 	 Dir ect ors 	 has 	 a 	 bene ficial 	 in t er es t 	 in 	 t he 	 shar es 	 o f 	 an y 	 o t her 	 Gr oup 	 Compan y . 	 De tails 	 o f 	 Dir ect ors ’ 	 shar e 	
options are also set out in the tables below. Current shareholding (including shares vested but subject to a holding 
period, but excluding share options) as a percentage of salary is based on the middle market price for the shares on 
31 March 2017 of 97 .5p.
Shares held Options held
    
Beneficially 
owned
Vested but 
subject to 
holding  
period
Vested  
but not 
exercised
Unvested  
and subject  
to perf. 
conditions
Shareholding 
requirement 
% salary/fee
Current 
shareholding  
% salary/fee
Requirement 
met?
        
O. Michaelson 146,463 21,413 – 624,213 100% 56% No
A. Kirkman 70,000 – – 425,207 100% 34% No
J. Cox 866,504 – – – n/a n/a n/a
L. Clement – – – – n/a – n/a
A. Donnelly – – – – n/a – n/a
A. Cunningham 17,333 – – – n/a n/a n/a
S. Underwood 38,385 – – – n/a n/a n/a
M. Bowes – – – – n/a – n/a
        
The table above includes the shares for which certain Directors subscribed pursuant to the Company’s equity placing 
announced on 17 March 2017 or, in the case of Andrew Kirkman, purchased on the day following the announcement 
of the equity placing, as follows:
  
O. Michaelson 21,052
A. Kirkman 19,587
A. Cunningham 1,576
S. Underwood 10,526
  
There have been no other changes in the Directors’ shareholdings between 31 December 2016 and 19 April 2017 .
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2016 AGM
The table below shows the results of votes at the Harworth Group plc Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016 on 
resolutions relating to remuneration.
 Votes
 
For and 
discretion
For and 
discretion as a 
percentage of 
votes cast Against
Against as a 
percentage of 
votes cast Withheld
      
Resolution 5: 
Approval of Annual Remuneration report
1,558,080,183 98.88% 17,996,147 1.12% 243,546
Resolution 6: 
Approval of revised Remuneration policy
1,575,091,080 99.96% 633,272 0.04% 267,524
Resolution 16: 
Approval of Long-Term Incentive Plan
1,575,202,841 99.97% 452,193 0.03% 336,842
      
The Directors’ Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Lisa Clement 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
19 April 2017 80 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Members and attendance at meetings during the year ended 31 December 2016
 
Andrew Cunningham
Chair	(with	effect	fr om	1	October	2016)	 
and Independent Non-Executive Director 
1(1)
Anthony Donnelly
Independent Non-Executive Director
4(4)
Steven Underwood
Non-Executive Director (not independent)
4(4)
Lisa Clement
Former Chair and Independent Non-Executive Director 
(ceased to be a member of the Committee from 1 October 2016)
3(3)
 
Key responsibilities
 
• Reviews the integrity of the Company’s annual and interim reports, 
preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcements 
re l ati n g 	 t o 	 i ts 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 p e r fo r m a n c e .
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 e ffe c ti v e n e s s 	 o f 	 th e 	 G ro u p ’ s 	 sy s t e m 	 o f 	 i nt e r n a l 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 a n d 	 r i s k 	
controls and the Group’s insurance programme.
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 i n d e p e n d e n c e 	 a n d 	 e ffe c ti v e n e s s 	 o f 	 th e 	 C o m p a n y’ s 	 e x t e r n a l 	
auditors and makes recommendations to the Board on the auditor’s 
remuneration.
• Consideration of matters relating to the appointment of the Company’s 
auditors and the independence of the auditors.
• Reviews and updates the Group’s risk register.
• R ev i ew s 	 th e 	 G ro u p ’ s 	 a nti - b r i b e r y 	 p o l i c y 	 a n d 	 oth e r 	 p o l i c i e s 	 re l ati n g 	 t o 	 fi n a n c i a l 	
security, business ethics and compliance.
 
The Committee’s terms of reference are set out on the Company’s website and 
can be found at www.harworthgroup.com/investors/governance/
The Board will undertake bi-annual evaluation of the Committee’s performance to 
ensure continued ability to discharge its key responsibilities.
  
Key areas of focus during the period since the publication of 
the 2015 Annual Report
 
• Oversight of the Group’s appointment of new 
insurance brokers and comprehensive review of its 
insurance programme prior to renewal.
• Implementation of a more robust, operational risk 
monitoring structure.
• Review of the Group’s tax policies and treatment.
 
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2016, having taken on the 
chairmanship of the Committee from Lisa Clement during 
2016. I would like to thank Lisa for all of her hard work as 
chair over the last few years. 
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors. 
From the beginning of the year until 30 September 2016, 
Lisa Clement chaired the Committee. I joined and was 
appointed chair of the Committee on 1 October 2016. At 
the same time, Lisa Clement stepped down as both chair 
and a member of the Committee. The other members of 
the committee are Steven Underwood and 
Anthony Donnelly. The experience of each member of the 
Committee is summarised on pages 54 and 55. The 
Bo ard 	 is 	 sa t is fied 	 t ha t 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 r ecen t 	 and 	 r ele v an t 	
financial 	 e xperience 	 wit h 	 al l 	 members 	 ha ving 	 t r ained 	 as 	
chartered accountants. I was a partner at the predecessor 
firm 	 t o 	 P rice w a t erhouseCoopers 	 LLP 	 fr om 	 1 98 9 	 t o 	 1 996 	
and then held the role of Finance Director at Grainger plc 
from 1996 until 2009.
The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and the 
external auditors are invited to attend meetings. The 
minutes of meetings of the Committee are circulated to 
all Directors.
During the year, the Committee held four formal meetings 
and there were calls between the Finance Director, 
Company Secretary and Chair of the Committee on the 
day preceding the announcement of the Company’s 
preliminary and interim results, so that the Chair of the 
Committee could authorise their release, having been 
delegated the authority to do so by the Committee and 
the Board.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to 
respond to any questions or discuss matters relating to 
the Committee’s activities.
Andrew Cunningham 
Audit Committee Chairman 
19 April 2017
Audit Committee report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 81
ANNUAL AND INTERIM REPORTS 
The areas to which the Committee has given particular 
focus since the publication of the 2015 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements are summarised below.
Significant financial statement reporting issues considered by 
the Audit Committee
 
Valuation of the investment portfolio 
The portfolio of investment properties, including assets 
held for sale, joint ventures, overages and owner occupied 
properties, comprises the vast majority of the total assets of 
the business. Whilst the same independent external valuers 
were used to value the portfolio, there remain a number of key 
judgements that are made regarding cost plans, estimated 
rental values, yields and comparable sales evidence, 
especially 	 considering 	 that 	 the 	 pr operties 	 ar e 	 at 	 differ ent 	
stages of completion. The assumptions and methodology 
were reviewed for consistency and appropriateness.
The deductions from the expected land values include not 
just	the	costs	to	complete	fr om	exter nal	firms	but	also,	
where relevant, an assessment of the potential restoration 
costs that may be incurred by the Group if the obligations 
are not completed by the mining tenants. The adequacy 
and necessity of the provisions were considered by the 
Committee as well as satisfying itself that the Group did not 
exercise control over the mining business tenants.
 
Other risks considered by the Audit Committee (and 
highlighted in the critical accounting estimates and 
judgements section of the financial statements) 
 
Going concern basis 
This is discussed in the How we manage our risks section of 
the Strategic Report. 
Revenue  
Overdue rents and royalties from the mining business 
tenants have been included in revenue for 2016. Prior to 
this year the Committee concluded that there was a less 
than remote possibility of recoverability of this income 
and therefore it was not included in revenue. A clearer 
outcome of the winding up of the mining businesses during 
2016 has given the Committee the ability to re-assess the 
recoverability of this revenue. 
Taxation 
The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset of £8.4m 
during the year. The assumptions underlying the recognition 
of this asset have been reviewed and the Committee are 
comfortable that the value recognised is appropriate based 
upon the certainty of recoverability. 
  
The Committee has reviewed the controls which are in 
place to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the 
Compan y ’ s 	 financial 	 r ecords . 	 The 	 pr oduct ion 	 and 	
external audit of the Group’s Annual Report and Financial 
Statements involves a number of parties including, in 
addition to the external auditor, the Finance Director, 
Company Secretary, Financial Controller, our Associate 
Director of Partnerships and Communications, actuary 
and tax accountants. The Committee has also noted the 
reviews that are undertaken during this process by the 
various parties, including the external auditor, to ensure 
consistency and balance in the presentation of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
As a result, the Committee has concluded that the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2016, when taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
Company’s business model, strategy and performance. 
The Committee has reported to the Board and the 
Board’s conclusions are set out in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities included in the Directors’ 
Report which forms part of this Annual Report.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditor. Audit 
quality is reviewed by the Audit Committee throughout 
the year and includes reviewing and approving the annual 
audit plan.
Having reviewed:
• the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), 
including consideration of the non-audit work it has 
undertaken for the Company (see further analysis 
below);
• t h e 	 eff e c t i v e n e s s 	 o f 	 P w C ’ s 	 a u d i t 	 o f 	 t h i s 	 A n n u a l 	
Report and Financial Statements; and
• the quantum of fees payable for the audit (see 
further analysis below), 
the Committee has recommended the re-appointment of 
PwC as external auditor at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. 
P wC , 	 t hen 	 kno wn 	 as 	 Coopers 	 and 	 L ybr and , 	 w as 	 firs t 	
appointed as the Company’s auditors before 17 June 
1994. This means that, for the purposes of the Companies 
Act 2006 (as amended by The Statutory Auditors and 
Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016) need not 
undertake an audit tender process before the accounts 
f or 	 t he 	 financial 	 y ear 	 ending 	 3 1 	 December 	 2 0 2 1 	 ar e 	
audited. Nevertheless, the Committee intends to tender 
the audit not later than 2020, which would coincide with 
the expiry of Andy Ward’s term as lead audit partner. This 
is the second set of the Company’s Financial Statements 
for which Andy Ward has led PwC’s audit team. The 
Committee will, however, keep the position under review. 
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the 
Committee’s choice of auditor.
The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding 
auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to 
ensure that auditor independence is not compromised:
• the Committee reviews the audit appointment 
periodically;
• w i t h 	 eff e c t 	 f r o m 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 h a s 	
introduced a policy that, save for audit-related 
services (such as regulatory and statutory reporting 
and work relating to circulars) and exceptional 
circumstances only with the Committee’s prior 
approval, the external auditors will not provide 
non-audit services to the Group; 
• the Group has recently appointed Deloitte LLP to 
provide advice and assistance on most tax matters 
going forward. KPMG has been appointed to advise 
on tax matters relating to our joint venture 
agreements and pension accounting; 
• the Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees 
paid for audit, and non-audit fees, with a view to 
assessing reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, 
and any independence issues that may have arisen 
or may potentially arise in the future. An analysis of 
all audit and non-audit fees are shown overleaf; and
• the external auditors’ report to the Directors and the 
C o m m i t t e e 	 c o nfi r m i n g 	 t h e i r 	 i n d e p e n d e n c e 	 i n 	
accordance with Auditing Standards. 82 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Resolutions to re-appoint PwC as the Company’s 
auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
INSURANCE BROKERS AND INSURANCE 
PROGRAMME
During the year under review, the Company undertook a 
re-tendering process, overseen by the Committee, for the 
appointment of insurance brokers to the Group. Four 
brokers participated in the process pursuant to which 
Marsh were appointed as the Group’s new brokers.
Tha t 	 appoin t men t 	 w as 	 e ff ect ed 	 wit h 	 a 	 vie w 	 t o 	 a	
compr ehensiv e 	 r e vie w 	 o f 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 insur able 	 risk 	 pr ofile 	
and insurance programme, which the Company 
undertook, in conjunction with Marsh and supervised by 
the Committee, in the second half of 2016. That review 
has led to extensions to, and increased limits within, the 
Gr oup ’ s 	 i n s ur ance 	 pr o gr am m e , 	 r e fle c t i ng 	 t h e 	 e xp an d i ng	
scope of the Group’s activities as its business matures. 
REVIEW OF TAX POLICIES AND TREATMENT
During the year the Group reviewed its tax strategy, 
policies and treatment. This was assisted by both PwC 
and Deloitte. Whilst there was little amendment to the 
strategy, additional work resulted in greater certainty 
regarding the tax loss position and expected pattern of 
usage of losses. As such, a deferred tax asset was 
recognised. 
RISK REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT 
Following the detailed risk review initiated by the 
Committee in the second half of 2015, which established 
the Group’s risk register, the Committee has continued to 
carry out a formal review of risk twice-yearly. It is, 
however, overseeing steps, led by our Company 
Secretary, to introduce a more regular and robust 
process for monitoring and manging risk at an operational 
level. Our objective is to embed a risk management 
process running through the business which makes the 
periodic risk reviews carried out by the Audit Committee 
and 	 t he 	 E x ecut iv e 	 Commit t ee 	 mor e 	 e ff ect iv e 	 and 	 ensur es	
that the Group’s risk register is a robust and evolving tool.
An operational risk review structure and process is now in 
place by which our Company Secretary meets with the 
senior management team in advance of the periodic risk 
reviews carried out by the Executive Committee and Audit 
Committee. Those meetings are designed to identify, at 
an operational level, both changes in the Group’s risk 
pr ofi le 	 and 	 i mpr o v emen t s 	 t ha t 	 can 	 be 	 ma de 	 t o 	 t he 	
Group’s internal risk controls. As an example, action 
poin t s 	 ha v e 	 al r ea dy 	 been 	 iden t ified 	 t o 	 i mpr o v e 	 doc umen t 	
management and Group-wide communication. 
Given the nature of the Group’s business and the 
condition of certain of our immature sites, health and 
sa f e t y 	 f orms 	 a 	 ma t erial 	 elemen t 	 o f 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 risk 	 pr o file . 	
Our Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health 
and safety across the business, but day-to-day 
management falls to our EES team, led by our EES 
Audit Committee report
continued
ANALYSIS OF FEES PAID TO THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND  
NON-AUDIT FIRMS FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 AND 31 DECEMBER 2016
2016 
 £’000
2015
 £’000
   
Audit services
Fees payable to the external auditors for:
–	the	audit	of	the	Company	and	the	consolidated	financial	statements 40 65
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries accounts 80 85
– the audit of the Company’s joint ventures 10 –
   
Total 130 150
   
Non-audit services
Fees payable to the external auditors and its associates for non-audit services:
– audit related assurance services 50 15
– tax advisory services 84 98
– tax compliance services 38 33
– fees in relation to transactions – 529
   
Total 172 675
   
Total fees payable to external auditors and associates for audit and non-audit services 302 825
   
Fees payable to non-audit firms for non-audit services
– tax advisory services 13 15
– tax compliance services 26 30
– fees in relation to transactions 25 –
– pension accounting 1 1
   
Total 65 46
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 83
Associate Director. He provides monthly updates to the 
Board in writing and an annual update in person. A more 
detailed explanation of the Group’s internal controls and 
processes in the context of health and safety appears at 
page 51 of the Strategic Report.
The Group has also revised its delegated authorities 
polic y 	 t his 	 y ear , 	 which 	 no t 	 only 	 iden t ifies 	 Board 	 r eser v ed 	
matters but also prescribes authority levels within the 
business. The Group’s document approval, execution 
and 	 r ecor ds 	 pr ocess 	 has 	 also 	 been 	 r e vie w ed 	 and 	 r e fined . 	
As a result, the number of authorised signatories within 
the business has been restricted appropriately and a 
record of every legal document entered into by a Group 
subsidiary should be logged with the Company 
Secretary, who reports to the Board on a monthly basis.
Delegated authorities policy
- determines who has authority to approve transaction
Legal Document Completion Record (LDCRs)
- must be completed and sent to the Company 
Secretary
Company Secretary Board paper
- reports on all LDCRs received during the preceding 
month
Document approval and executive policy
- determines who can approve and execute a 
document (Executive Committee members only)
 
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Group has continued to strengthen the internal 
control environment especially around treasury and 
financial 	 r epor t ing . 	 The 	 ne w 	 le v els 	 o f 	 delega t ed 	 aut horit y 	
have been incorporated into the day to day operations of 
t he 	 finance 	 funct ion 	 t o 	 ensur e 	 t ha t 	 pur chase 	
commitments are authorised appropriately. Investment in 
training and resource has enabled more detailed 
information to be entered into and taken from the 
accounting and reporting system which has assisted with 
monthly reporting and preparing the budget for 2017 . 
The 	 Board 	 has 	 carried 	 out 	 a 	 r e vie w 	 o f 	 t he 	 e ff ect iv eness 	 o f	
the Company’s risk management and internal controls 
s y s t em s , 	 i ncl u d i ng 	 fin anci al , 	 o p er a t i o n al 	 an d 	 co m p l i ance ,	
As set out in the paragraphs above, these controls have 
continued to improve during 2016, but it is acknowledged 
that further improvements can and should be made. To 
that end, whilst the Committee recognises that, as things 
stand, the business is not large or complex enough for a 
separate internal audit function, it intends to instruct an 
e x t ernal 	 firm 	 t o 	 r e vie w 	 and 	 a dvise 	 on 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 in t ernal 	
controls during the course of 2017 .
WHISTLEBLOWING, BRIBERY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND  
MODERN SLAVERY
The Company re-introduced a whistle-blower policy and 
reporting structure in 2015. This was reviewed during the 
firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 The 	 polic y 	 is 	 a v ailable , 	 wit h 	 all 	 o t her 	
Group policies, on the Group’s shared drive, which is 
accessible by all employees.
The Committee takes responsibility for monitoring and 
reviewing the Company’s policies and procedures for 
preventing bribery. The Company has a zero-tolerance 
position with regard to bribery and the Committee is 
committed to ensuring that that position is respected and 
adhered to throughout the business. The Group operates 
a Business Conduct policy, which outlines the Group’s 
position on bribery and other matters of business ethics, 
and is available to all employees on the Group’s shared 
drive. One of the Committee’s priorities in 2017 is to 
review and update the policies and procedures in 
connection with hospitality. 
We are committed to ensuring that we have in place 
practices to ensure respect for human rights and to 
comba t 	 sla v er y 	 and 	 human 	 t r a fficking 	 bo t h 	 in 	 our 	
business and those of third party contractors. The 
Committee takes responsibility for delivering on that 
commitment. Since the publication of our 2015 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, the following steps 
have been taken in this regard:
• the introduction of a modern slavery and human 
t raffi c k i n g 	 p o l i cy , 	 w h i c h 	 i s 	 a v a i l a b l e 	 t o 	 a l l 	 e m p l o y e e s 	
on the Group’s shared drive; 
• amendments to the Group’s “standard terms of 
business”, to include provisions designed to reduce 
t h e 	 r i s k 	 o f 	 s l a v e r y 	 a n d 	 t raffi c k i n g 	 b y 	 o u r 	 c o nt rac t o r s ; 	
and
• updates to the Group’s template “site inspection” 
report to encourage employees to think about and 
r e p o r t 	 a n y 	 e v i d e n c e 	 o f 	 s l a v e r y 	 a n d 	 t raffi c k i n g 	 a t 	 a n y 	
of the Group’s sites. 
We intend to take further steps, including:
• the delivery of external training to all employees so 
that they understand better the risks of slavery and 
t raffi c k i n g 	 i n 	 o u r 	 b u s i n e s s 	 a n d 	 s u p p l y 	 c h a i n s ; 	 a n d
• t h e 	 i n c l u s i o n 	 o f 	 a nt i-s l a v e r y 	 a n d 	 t raffi c k i n g 	 p r o v i s i o n s 	
in our standard form construction agreements: this 
will form part of a wider review of those documents. 
The Report of the Audit Committee has been approved 
by the Board on its behalf by:
Andrew Cunningham 
Chair of the Audit Committee  
19 April 2017  84 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Nomination Committee report
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present to you the Nomination 
Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 
2016.
At the start of the year the Committee consisted of me, 
Lisa Clement and Peter Hickson. Following Peter’s 
retirement from the Board at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, Andrew Cunningham joined the Committee, 
wit h 	 e ff ect 	 fr om 	 1 	 Oct ober 	 2 0 1 6 .
All Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings 
of the Committee. So too is the Chief Executive when this 
is considered appropriate.
The Committee meets at least once a year to review 
succession and development planning for the Executive 
Committee and senior management team and to 
appraise the balance, experience and skills of the Board. 
Further meetings are arranged, as required, to discharge 
the Committee’s responsibilities in connection with 
identifying and nominating new Board members. The 
Committee met three times in 2016.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to 
answer any questions from Shareholders on the activities 
of the Committee.
Jonson Cox 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
19 April 2017
Members and attendance at meetings during the year ended 31 December 2016
 
Jonson Cox
Chairman of the Committee and the Board  
(not independent)
3(3)
Lisa Clement
Independent Non-Executive Director
3(3)
Andrew Cunningham
Independent Non-Executive Director  
(joined the Committee from 1 October 2016)
1(1)
 
Key responsibilities
 
• Leads the process for Board appointments by making recommendations to 
th e 	 B o a rd , 	 b oth 	 fo r 	 fi l l i n g 	 B o a rd 	 va c a n c i e s 	 a n d 	 a p p o i nti n g 	 a d d i ti o n a l 	 p e r s o n s 	
to the Board, following evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board.
• At least annually, carries out a review of succession and development 
planning for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors, members of the Executive Committee and certain senior managers 
to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board and 
in the business.
• Considers and makes recommendations to the Board on its composition, 
balance and membership and on the re-appointment by Shareholders of 
any Director. 
 
Key activities of the Committee since publication of the 2015 Annual Report
 
• Appointment of Andrew Cunningham as Non-Executive Director following the 
retirement of Peter Hickson from the Board.
• Appointment of Chris Birch as Group General Counsel and Company 
S e c ret a r y 	 fo l l o w i n g 	 th e 	 p l a n n e d 	 d e p a r tu re 	 o f 	 G e off 	 M a s o n .
• Review of the succession and development plans in place for the Executive 
Committee and senior management team.
• Commencement of a succession plan for Non-Executive Directors, to be 
progressed in 2017. 
 
The Committee’s terms of reference are set out on the Company’s website and 
can be found at www.harworthgroup.com/investors/governance/
The Board will undertake bi-annual evaluation of the Committee’s performance to 
ensure continued ability to discharge its key responsibilities.
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 85
APPOINTMENT OF ANDREW CUNNINGHAM AS 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Peter Hickson stepped down from his position as Senior 
Independent Director at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting. The Committee led the search for his 
replacement. Potential candidates were compiled by 
Russell Reynolds based on an agreed role description 
appr o v ed 	 b y 	 t he 	 Commit t ee . 	 The 	 Chairman 	 iden t ified 	 a 	
list of candidates for interview. Initial interviews were led 
by the Chairman, together with certain of the Non-
Executive Directors. Candidates on a shortlist were then 
interviewed by most of the remaining Directors. Following 
that process, the Committee recommended that the 
Board appoint Andrew Cunningham as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director.
Andrew was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2016. 
He undertook our induction programme for Non-
Executive Directors which includes, amongst other 
things, meetings with the Non-Executive Directives and 
Executive Committee, two days of site visits and one 
to-one meetings with the Company Secretary, Group HR 
Manager, and Associate Directors of EES and 
Partnerships and Communications.
In conjunction with Andrew’s appointment, the 
Committee recommended that Lisa Clement be 
appointed Senior Independent Director and Chair of the 
Remuner a t ion 	 Commit t ee , 	 t o 	 fill 	 t he 	 posit ions 	 v a ca t ed 	 b y 	
Peter Hickson, Anthony Donnelly be appointed as a 
member of the Remuneration Committee, to maintain the 
number of Independent Non-Executive Directors on that 
Commit t ee 	 and , 	 giv en 	 his 	 financial 	 ba ck gr ound 	 and 	
experience, Andrew Cunningham be appointed as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in place of Lisa. 
Andrew was also appointed to the Nomination 
Commit t ee , 	 t o 	 fill 	 t he 	 pla ce 	 v a ca t ed 	 b y 	 P e t er 	 Hick son . 	
Those 	 appoin t men t s 	 t ook 	 e ff ect 	 on 	 1 	 Oct ober 	 2 0 1 6 .	
Andrew is a very welcome addition to the Board and has 
already made a substantial contribution since his arrival.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the Group.
APPOINTMENT OF CHRIS BIRCH AS GENERAL 
COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Geoff 	 Mason 	 w as 	 r e- appoin t ed 	 as 	 Compan y 	 Secr e tar y 	 in	
June 2014 on a temporary basis with the principal 
objective of assisting with the Company’s acquisition of 
HEPGL. Following completion of that transaction, the 
Company began a process, overseen by the Committee, 
to identify a permanent replacement. Suitable candidates 
f or 	 t he 	 r ole 	 w er e 	 iden t ified , 	 wit h 	 assis tance 	 fr om 	 t w o 	
recruitment consultants, and a series of interviews and 
meetings followed with a number of individuals. 
Chris Birch was appointed as Group General Counsel 
and 	 Compan y 	 Secr e tar y 	 wit h 	 e ff ect 	 fr om 	 6 	 June 	 2 0 1 6 .
SUCCESSION AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
succession and development plans in place for the 
Executive Committee and senior management team. 
The Chief Executive reports to the Committee annually, 
and did so again in the fourth quarter of 2016, on 
progress with respect to those plans. This year the 
Committee spent some time focussing on the 
succession plans for members of the Executive 
Committee, particularly the Chief Executive, both in 
terms of emergency succession plans in the event that 
the Board needed to appoint a temporary Chief 
Executive at short notice, due to unforeseen 
circumstances, and for medium to long-term succession 
plans . 	 T he 	 Commit t e e 	 w as 	 sa t isfie d 	 t ha t 	 appr opr ia t e 	
plans are in place for both the Executive Committee and 
senior management team and resolved to review the 
position again in the summer of 2017 , when certain 
development initiatives have been completed.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Committee is responsible for keeping under review 
the composition of the Board, to ensure that its 
membership comprises an appropriate balance of 
experience and skills and includes the right number of 
independent Directors.
The Board is mindful that our Chairman and two of our 
Independent Non-Executive Directors have served on the 
Board for close to or more than six years. In that context, 
succession to the Chairman’s role and for our long-serving 
Independent Non-Executive Directors has formed an 
important part of the Board evaluation that has recently 
been undertaken. Following that process, and further 
discussion amongst the Board, we are beginning to put 
in place succession plans.
DIVERSITY
The Board supports the need for improving diversity, 
both at Board level and throughout the business. This is 
an important consideration when scoping and monitoring 
succession and development planning within the 
business. It will also be a key objective as Board 
succession plans are developed and implemented, albeit 
the Committee and Board will continue to recruit on merit 
to ensure the best candidates are appointed to all roles. 86 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ report
Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Introduction
T h e	D i r e c t o r s	p r e s e n t	t h e i r	r e p o r t	a n d	t h e	a u d i t e d	c o n s o l i d a t e d	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	f o r	t h e	y e a r	e n d e d	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6 .
Pages 86 to 90 inclusive, together with sections of this Annual Report referred to below, constitute the Directors’ Report for year 
ended 31 December 2016, prepared and presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with the report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by English Company law.
The Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report (pages 2 to 51) and the wider Corporate Governance 
Statement (pages 52 to 91) which are incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report.
The information required to be disclosed in the Directors’ Report, including pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (CA06), the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, paragraphs 4.1.5R and 4.1.8R of the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and paragraph 9.8.4CR of the FCA’s Listing Rules can be found in this Annual Report on the 
pages listed below. 
Reference
  
Agreements with Shareholders Statement of corporate governance, p59
Amendment of the Articles Directors’ report, p88
Annual General Meeting Statement of Corporate Governance, p65
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors’ report, p88
Board of Directors Board of Directors and Company Secretary, pp54-55 
Directors’ report, p88 
Charitable donations Directors’ report, p89
Change of control Directors’ report, p89
Composition and operation of administrative, management and supervisory bodies and 
committees
Statement of corporate governance, pp58-61
Directors’ insurance and indemnities Statement of Corporate Governance, p62 
Directors’ report, p89
Disclosure of information to auditors Statement of Directors’ responsibilities, p91
Diversity Strategic report: Our people, p51
Employee numbers Strategic report: Our people, p50
Employee involvement Strategic report: Our people, p50
Employees with disabilities Strategic report: Our people, p51
Employee share scheme Strategic report: Our people, p51 
Directors’ Remuneration report, p67 
Directors’ report, p89
Future developments of the business Strategic report, pp4-5
Going concern and viability Strategic report: How we manage our risks, p45
Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report: Harworth and the environment, p49
Independent auditors Audit Committee report, p81 
Independent auditors’ report, pp92-96
Political donations Directors’ report, p89
Post-balance sheet events Strategic report: Chief Executive’s statement, p14
Powers for the Company to issue or buy back shares Directors’ report, p88
Powers of the Directors Directors’ report, p88
Pr ofit/loss	and	dividends Chairman’s statement, p10 
Directors’ report, p88
Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors’ report, p87
Rights attaching to shares Directors’ report, p87
Risk management and internal controls Strategic report: How we manage our risks, pp40-41  
Audit Committee report, pp82-83 
Risk	management	–	financial	risks	and	use	of	financial	instruments	to	mitigate	risk Strategic report, Financial review, p37  
Directors’ report, p89  
Financial statements, Note 25, p125
Share capital Directors’ report, p87
Significant	r elated	party	agr eements Financial statements, Note 32, p131
Significant	Shar eholders Directors’ report, p89
Statement of corporate governance including compliance with corporate governance code Directors’ report, p89
Voting rights Directors’ report, p87
  
Directors’ report
Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
The Company 
Legal form
Harworth Group plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom with Company number 2649340. The principal subsidiaries 
and associated undertakings are listed in Note 18 of the Financial Statements.
Financial results 
T he 	 G r oup ’ s 	 consolida t e d 	 income 	 sta t e me n t 	 se t 	 out 	 on 	 page 	 9 7 	 sho w s 	 G r oup 	 pr ofit 	 be f or e 	 ta xa t ion 	 o f 	 £ 43 . 5m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 7 7 . 6 m , 	 which 	
included the £44.2m gain arising from the Company’s acquisition of the remaining 75.1% of HEPGL). The net assets attributable to 
Shar e holde rs 	 o f 	 t he 	 G r oup 	 incr e ase d 	 t o 	 £ 334 . 9 m 	 ( 2 0 1 5 : 	 £ 2 9 7 . 7 m ) 	 o v e r 	 t he 	 financial 	 y e ar 	 t o 	 3 1 	 De ce mbe r 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 T he 	 G r oup ’ s 	 NA V 	 r ose 	 b y 	
12.5% during the year. The results for the Group are reviewed in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement and Financial 
Re vie w 	 and 	 t he 	 de taile d 	 r e sult s 	 ar e 	 se t 	 out 	 in 	 t he 	 financial 	 sta t e me n t s 	 on 	 page s 	 9 7 	 t o 	 1 3 2 	 which 	 accompan y 	 t his 	 r e por t.
Share capital and authority to allot and purchase shares
D ur ing 	 t he 	 y e ar 	 unde r 	 r e vie w 	 t he 	 Shar e holde rs 	 appr o v e d 	 a t 	 t he 	 2 0 1 6 	 A nnual 	 G e ne ral 	 Me e t ing , 	 and 	 t he 	 Compan y 	 e ff e ct e d , 	 a 	 shar e 	
consolidation whereby 2,922,697 ,860 Ordinary Shares of 1 pence each were consolidated into 292,269,786 Ordinary Shares of 
10 pence each. As such, the issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2016 was 292,269,786 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence 
each. Details of the share capital as at 31 December 2016 are set out in Note 29 to the Financial Statements on page 130. 
On 22 March 2017, the Company issued and allotted a further 29,226,974 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each pursuant to a placing of 
shares. As such, the issued share capital of the Company at 19 April 2017 (being the latest date prior to publication of this report) was 
321,496,760 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BYZJ7G42. 
All shares carry equal rights to dividend, voting and return of capital on the winding up of the Company, as set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, and are fully paid. No person holds shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
On 14 March 2017, the PPF entered into a lock-in deed with the Company, pursuant to which it undertook not to sell or otherwise 
dispose of the shares it holds in the Company for a period of 6 months. There are no other restrictions on the transfer of securities in 
the Company, save for the power of the Board to refuse to transfer shares in certain circumstances prescribed by the Articles of 
Association, and there are no restrictions on any voting rights or deadlines, other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company 
aware of any other arrangement between holders of shares which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting 
rights, nor any arrangement whereby a Shareholder has waived or agreed to waive dividends (other than the EBT – see below).
T h e	H a r w o r t h	G r o u p	p l c	E m p l o y e e	B e n e fi t	T r u s t	( EB T )	h o l d s	s h a r e s	f o r	t h e	p u r p o s e s	o f	s a t i s f y i n g	a w a rd s	t h a t	m a y	v e s t	u n d e r	t h e	
Company’s share-based incentive schemes. The EBT may purchase shares in the Company from time to time to satisfy awards 
granted to Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee and senior management team, subject to the achievement 
of performance targets under the Company’s incentive schemes. At 31 December 2016 the EBT held 68,966 Ordinary Shares of 
10 pence each in the Company (2015: 1,695,057 Ordinary Shares of 1 pence each) in respect of future incentive awards under the 
Company’s employee share schemes. Details of outstanding awards are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 79.
T h e	EB T	h a s	w a i v e d	i t s	r i g h t	t o	r e c e i v e	d i v i d e n d s	o n	s h a r e s	t h a t	i t	h o l d s	b e n e fi c i a l l y	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	f u t u r e	a w a rd s .	T h e	T r u s t e e	o f	t h e	
EBT exercises any voting rights on such shares in accordance with the Directors’ recommendations.
Section 551 of the CA06 provides that the Directors may not allot shares unless empowered to do so by Shareholders. In conjunction 
with the Share Capital Management Guidelines published by the Investment Association, a resolution was passed at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting giving the Directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of one-third of the Company’s issued 
share capital plus a further one-third (i.e. two-thirds in all) where the allotment is in connection with a rights issue. The Company 
issued and allotted three Ordinary Shares of 1 pence each on 26 April 2016 in conjunction with, and to facilitate, the share 
consolidation referred to above. On 22 March 2017, the Company issued and allotted a further 29,226,974 Ordinary Shares of 
10 pence each (representing an aggregate nominal value of approximately 9.9% of the Company’s issued share capital) for the 
purposes of the placing referred to above. At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Directors propose to renew the authorities 
granted to them at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Allotment of shares for cash
Under Section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the Directors wish to allot unissued shares for cash (other than pursuant to an employee share 
s c h e m e )	t h e y	m u s t	fi r s t	off e r	t h e m	t o	e x i s t i n g	S h a r e h o l d e r s	i n	p r o p o r t i o n	t o	t h e i r	h o l d i n g s	( a	p r e - e m p t i v e	off e r ) .	B y	a	s p e c i a l	r e s o l u t i o n	
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Shareholders gave authority to the Directors to dis-apply the above mentioned pre-emption 
and to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights to existing Shareholders, provided that the aggregate nominal value of such 
shares does not exceed 5% of the Company’s total issued equity capital. This authority was compliant with the Pre-Emption Group’s 
Statement of Principles (PEG Principles).
The Directors did not make use of this authority during the period under review, but did issue shares for non-cash consideration 
pursuant to the share placing in March 2017 referred to above.
The Directors propose to renew this authority at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no current plans to make use of the renewed authority should it be granted, although they consider their renewal 
a p p r o p r i a t e	i n	o rd e r	t o	r e t a i n	m a x i m u m	fl e x i b i l i t y	t o	t a k e	a d v a n t a g e	o f	b u s i n e s s	o p p o r t u n i t i e s	a s	t h e y	a r i s e .	T h a t	s a i d ,	t h e	P E G	
Principles request that in any rolling three-year period a Company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity 
securities exceeding 7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital without prior consultation with Shareholders. The Directors intend to 
comply with that guidance.  88 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ report
Continued
Purchase of own shares 
The Company has authority under a Shareholders’ resolution passed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to purchase up to 
29,226,978 of the Company’s Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 10% of the Company’s total issued share capital, in the 
market during the period expiring at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. 
No shares have been purchased by the Company under the authority granted at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 
A special resolution will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to renew this authority. Although the Directors have no 
immediate plans to do so, they believe it is prudent to seek general authority from Shareholders to be able to act if circumstances 
were to arise in which they considered such purchases to be desirable. This power will only be exercised if and when, in the light of 
market conditions prevailing at that time, the Directors believe that such purchases would increase earnings per share and would be 
f o r	t h e	b e n e fi t	o f	S h a r e h o l d e r s	g e n e r a l l y .	A n y	s h a r e s	p u r c h a s e d	u n d e r	t h i s	a u t h o r i t y	w i l l	b e	c a n c e l l e d	( u n l e s s	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	d e t e r m i n e	
that they are to be held as treasury shares) and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly. 
Amendment of Articles of Association
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Shareholders.
Reduction of capital 
During the year under review and with the approval of Shareholders (at the 2016 Annual General Meeting) and the court, the Company 
e ff e c t e d	a	c a p i t a l	r e d u c t i o n	b y	w a y	o f	c a n c e l l a t i o n	o f	t h e	C o m p a n y ’ s	s h a r e	p r e m i u m	a c c o u n t .
Dividends
T h e	B o a rd	i s	r e c o m m e n d i n g	a	fi n a l	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 5 2 3	p e n c e	p e r	s h a r e	w h i c h ,	t o g e t h e r	w i t h	t h e	i n t e r i m	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 2 3	p e n c e	p e r	
s h a r e	p a i d	i n	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6 ,	m a k e s	a	c o m b i n e d	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 7 5 3	p e n c e	( 2 0 1 5 :	0 . 5 1	p e n c e )	p e r	s h a r e .	P a y m e n t	o f	t h e	fi n a l	
dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 30 May 2017 to Shareholders registered at the close of business 
on 5 May 2017. The ex-dividend date will be 4 May 2017. 
The dividend paid in the year to 31 December 2016 and disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is 0.74 pence (2015: nil) per 
s h a r e ,	b e i n g	t h e	p r e v i o u s	y e a r’ s	fi n a l	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 5 1	p e n c e	p e r	s h a r e	a n d	t h e	i n t e r i m	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 2 3	p e n c e	p e r	s h a r e	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	
the year ended 31 December 2015. These were paid on 9 September 2016 and 1 December 2016 respectively.
Directors and Directors’ interests 
A list of the Company’s Directors and their biographies appear in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 and 55. In 
addition to the individuals in that list, during the period under review:
•  Michael Richardson was a Director of the Company, by way of a transition period following the appointment of Andrew Kirkman as 
Finance Director on 1 January 2016, until his resignation on 29 February 2016; and
•  Peter Hickson was the Senior Independent Director until his retirement at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
D e t a i l s	o f	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	r e m u n e r a t i o n	a n d	b e n e fi c i a l	i n t e r e s t s	i n ,	a n d	o p t i o n s	t o	a c q u i r e ,	O r d i n a r y	S h a r e s	i n	t h e	C o m p a n y	a s	a t	
3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6	a r e	s e t	o u t	i n	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	R e m u n e r a t i o n	r e p o r t	o n	p a g e	7 9 .	D e t a i l s	o f	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	b e n e fi c i a l	i n t e r e s t s	i n ,	a n d	
o p t i o n s	t o	a c q u i r e ,	O rd i n a r y	S h a r e s	a s	a t	1 9	A p r i l	2 0 1 7	( b e i n g	t h e	l a t e s t	p r a c t i c a l	d a t e	p r i o r	t o	p u b l i c a t i o n	o f	t h i s	r e p o r t ) ,	w h i c h	r e fl e c t	
the share placing in March 2017, are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 79. The Directors do not have any interest in any 
other Group Company, other than as Directors. 
No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract 
s i g n i fi c a n t	t o	t h e	C o m p a n y ’ s	b u s i n e s s .
Appointment, replacement and powers of Directors 
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Articles of Association.
The Board must comprise not less than two Directors with no maximum number of Directors. Directors may be appointed by 
Shareholders (by ordinary resolution) or by the Board. 
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, any Director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting may only 
h o l d	offi c e	u n t i l	t h e	d a t e	o f	t h e	f o l l o w i n g	A n n u a l	G e n e r a l	M e e t i n g ,	a t	w h i c h	t i m e	t h a t	D i r e c t o r	m u s t	s t a n d	f o r	e l e c t i o n	b y	S h a r e h o l d e r s .	
Andrew Cunningham will, therefore, be standing for election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting. Any Director who has not 
retired by rotation must retire at the third Annual General Meeting after his or her last appointment or re-appointment. However, in 
accordance with the Code, which requires all Directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual re-election by Shareholders, 
the Board has again decided that all other Directors will be subject to re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ report
Continued HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
The Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to compliance with relevant laws, the Company’s Memorandum 
a n d	A r t i c l e s	o f	A s s o c i a t i o n	a n d	a n y	d i r e c t i o n s	g i v e n	b y	s p e c i a l	r e s o l u t i o n	o f	S h a r e h o l d e r s .	T h e s e	i n c l u d e	s p e c i fi c	r e s t r i c t i o n s	
regarding the Company’s power to borrow money. 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance 
As permitted by the Articles of Association, qualifying third-party indemnities have been in place throughout the period under review 
a n d	r e m a i n	i n	f o r c e	a t	t h e	d a t e	o f	t h i s	r e p o r t	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	l i a b i l i t i e s	s u ff e r e d	o r	i n c u r r e d	b y	e a c h	D i r e c t o r .	T h e	d e e d s	o f	i n d e m n i t y	a r e	
a v a i l a b l e	f o r	i n s p e c t i o n	b y	S h a r e h o l d e r s	a t	t h e	C o m p a n y ’ s	r e g i s t e r e d	offi c e .	
T h e	C o m p a n y	a l s o	m a i n t a i n s	a n	a p p r o p r i a t e	l e v e l	o f	D i r e c t o r s ’	a n d	offi c e r s ’	i n s u r a n c e	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	l e g a l	a c t i o n s	a g a i n s t	t h e	D i r e c t o r s .	
Neither the qualifying third party indemnities nor the insurance provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Political donations 
No political donations were made during the year (2015: £nil). It remains the Company’s policy to not make any cash donations to 
p o l i t i c a l	p a r t i e s .	T h i s	p o l i c y	i s	s t r i c t l y	a d h e r e d	t o	a n d	t h e r e	i s	n o	i n t e n t i o n	t o	c h a n g e	i t .	H o w e v e r ,	t h e	d e fi n i t i o n s	o f	‘ p o l i t i c a l	d o n a t i o n ’	
a n d	‘ p o l i t i c a l	e x p e n d i t u r e ’	u s e d	i n	t h e	C o m p a n i e s	A c t	2 0 0 6	r e m a i n	v e r y	b r o a d ,	w h i c h	m a y	h a v e	t h e	e ff e c t	o f	c o v e r i n g	a	n u m b e r	o f	
normal business activities that would not be considered political donations or political expenditure in the usual sense. These could 
include support for bodies engaged in law reform or governmental policy review or involvement in seminars and functions that may be 
attended by politicians. To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Companies Act 2006, the Directors obtained 
a u t h o r i t y	f r o m	S h a r e h o l d e r s	a t	t h e	2 0 1 6	A n n u a l	G e n e r a l	M e e t i n g	f o r	c e r t a i n	p o l i t i c a l	d o n a t i o n s	a n d	e x p e n d i t u r e ,	s u b j e c t	t o	fi n a n c i a l	
limits. The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Charitable donations
The Group made charitable donations during 2016 in the aggregte sum of £7,558 (2015: £300).
Financial instruments and risk management 
The Group’s exposure to, and management of capital, liquidity, credit and interest rate risk, are set out within the Financial Review on 
page 37.
General meetings
An Annual General Meeting must be called on at least 21 days’ clear notice, although the Company gives not less than 20 working 
days’ notice of its Annual General Meeting in order to comply with the Code.
A l l	o t h e r	g e n e r a l	m e e t i n g s	a r e	a l s o	r e q u i r e d	t o	b e	h e l d	o n	a t	l e a s t	2 1	d a y s ’	c l e a r	n o t i c e	u n l e s s	t h e	C o m p a n y	off e r s	S h a r e h o l d e r s	a n	
electronic voting facility. A special resolution reducing the period of notice for general meetings (other than Annual General Meetings) 
to not less than 14 days was passed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. The Directors are proposing to seek renewal of that 
authority at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. It is intended that this shorter notice period will only be used for non-routine business 
and where merited in the interests of Shareholders as a whole.
Substantial shareholdings 
A s	a t	t h e	d a t e	o f	t h i s	r e p o r t	t h e	C o m p a n y	h a d	b e e n	n o t i fi e d ,	p u r s u a n t	t o	p a r a g r a p h	5	o f	t h e	F C A ’ s	D i s c l o s u r e	a n d	T r a n s p a r e n c y	
R u l e s ,	o f	t h e	f o l l o w i n g	n o t i fi a b l e	v o t i n g	r i g h t s	i n	i t s	O rd i n a r y	S h a r e	c a p i t a l :	
Name of holder
Number of  
Ordinary Shares
Percentage of total 
voting rights
   
Goodweather Holdings Limited* 88,892,667 27.65%
Pension Protection Fund 80,374,189 25.00%
Invesco Perpetual 31,993,428 9.95%
Pelham Capital Management 27,480,851 8.55%
London and Amsterdam Trust Company 11,707,924 3.64%
   
* Goodweather Holdings Limited is a member of the Peel Holdings Group Limited.
Change of control provisions 
T h e	f o l l o w i n g	s i g n i fi c a n t	a g r e e m e n t	c o n t a i n s	a	p r o v i s i o n	e n t i t l i n g	t h e	c o u n t e r p a r t i e s	t o	e x e r c i s e	t e r m i n a t i o n	r i g h t s	i n	t h e	e v e n t	o f	a	
change of control in the Company:
Under the terms of the banking facility agreement entered between Royal Bank of Scotland plc and HEPGL in February 2015 and 
amended in August 2016 and December 2016 if any person or Group of persons acting in concert gains direct or indirect control of 
HEPGL the facility will be cancelled and all outstanding loans and bonds, guarantees or letters of credit together with accrued interest 
shall become immediately due and payable.
The rules governing the LTIP provide for the treatment of awards under the LTIP in the event of a takeover of the Company. 
A summary of those rules was included in the Notice of the 2016 Annual General Meeting, a copy of which is available on the 
Company’s website at www.harworthgroup.com/investors/. 90 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Directors’ report
Continued
Agreements with related parties
T h e r e	c o n t i n u e	t o	s u b s i s t	fi v e	j o i n t	v e n t u r e	a g r e e m e n t s	w i t h	m e m b e r s	o f	t h e	P e e l	G r o u p ,	w h i c h	w e r e	a p p r o v e d	b y	S h a r e h o l d e r s	i n	
J u n e	2 0 1 7 ,	f o r	t h e	p r o m o t i o n	a n d	d e v e l o p m e n t	o f	e n e r g y	f r o m	w a s t e	s c h e m e s	a t	fi v e	s i t e s	o w n e d	b y	t h e	G r o u p .	T h e	C o m p a n y	i s	
seeking Shareholder approval for certain amendments to those joint venture arrangements at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code
W h i l s t	t h e	C o m p a n y	i s	l i s t e d	o n	t h e	s t a n d a r d	s e g m e n t	o f	t h e	O ffi c i a l	L i s t ,	i t	h a s	a p p l i e d	t h e	m a i n	a n d	s u p p o r t i n g	p r i n c i p l e s	o f	t h e	U K	
C o r p o r a t e	G o v e r n a n c e	C o d e	2 0 1 4 ,	w h i c h	a p p l i e d	d u r i n g	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	e n d e d	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6	a n d	i s	p u b l i c l y	a v a i l a b l e	o n	t h e	
website of the Financial Reporting Council. The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 
31 December 2016, save for the following matters:
• The Audit Committee comprises two independent Non-Executive Directors (Andrew Cunningham and Anthony Donnelly) and one 
non-independent Non-Executive Director (Steven Underwood). The Company considers that Mr Underwood makes a valuable and 
important contribution to the Committee because: (i) he is a chartered accountant; and (ii) in his role as Chief Executive of the Peel 
Group, he has extensive experience of reviewing and scrutinising the accounts of a large property business. The independent 
Non-Executive Directors carry a majority of votes on the Committee.
• The Remuneration Committee comprises two independent Non-Executive Directors (Lisa Clement and Anthony Donnelly), the 
Chairman (Jonson Cox) and one non-independent Non-Executive Director (Steven Underwood). The Company considers that 
Mr Underwood makes a valuable and important contribution to the Committee because he relays the views of the Company’s 
largest Shareholder on remuneration matters. The independent Non-Executive Directors carry 50% of the votes on the Committee 
and the independent Chair has a casting vote.
• Whilst the Company has in the past undertaken regular evaluations of the Board, Committees, Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors, the Company has only recently put in place a formal evaluation process and undertaken a formal Board evaluation. 
Formal evaluations of the Committees and Chairman will follow during this year and formal 360 degree reviews will be undertaken 
by Non-Executive Directors periodically.
• In response to feedback from the Board evaluation process referred to above further work will be done in 2017 to formalise the 
process for reviewing and managing the CPD of Non-Executive Directors.
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: 
Chris Birch 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 
19 April 2017  HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the financial statements
The 	 Dir ectors 	 ar e 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 pr eparing 	 the 	 Annual 	 Report 	 and 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 applicable 	 law 	 and 	 r egulation. 	
C o m p a n y	l a w	r e q u i r e s	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	t o	p r e p a r e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	f o r	e a c h	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r .	U n d e r	t h a t	l a w	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	h a v e	
p r e p a r e d	t h e	G r o u p	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	i n	a c c o rd a n c e	w i t h	I n t e r n a t i o n a l	F i n a n c i a l	R e p o r t i n g	S t a n d a rd s	( I F R S s )	a s	a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	
E u r o p e a n	U n i o n	a n d	C o m p a n y	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	i n	a c c o rd a n c e	w i t h	I n t e r n a t i o n a l	F i n a n c i a l	R e p o r t i n g	S t a n d a rd s	( I F R S s )	a s	
a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	E u r o p e a n	U n i o n .	U n d e r	C o m p a n y	l a w	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	m u s t	n o t	a p p r o v e	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	u n l e s s	t h e y	a r e	
s a t i s fi e d	t h a t	t h e y	g i v e	a	t r u e	a n d	f a i r	v i e w	o f	t h e	s t a t e	o f	a ff a i r s	o f	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	C o m p a n y	a n d	o f	t h e	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s	o f	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	
C o m p a n y	f o r	t h a t	p e r i o d .	I n	p r e p a r i n g	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	a r e	r e q u i r e d	t o :
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 	 s t a t e	w h e t h e r	a p p l i c a b l e	I F R S s	a s	a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	E u r o p e a n	U n i o n	h a v e	b e e n	f o l l o w e d	f o r	t h e	G r o u p	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a n d	
I F R S s	a s	a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	E u r o p e a n	U n i o n	h a v e	b e e n	f o l l o w e d	f o r	t h e	C o m p a n y	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	s u b j e c t	t o	a n y	m a t e r i a l	
d e p a r t u r e s	d i s c l o s e d	a n d	e x p l a i n e d	i n	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
•		 	 p r e p a r e	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	o n	t h e	g o i n g	c o n c e r n	b a s i s	u n l e s s	i t	i s	i n a p p r o p r i a t e	t o	p r e s u m e	t h a t	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	C o m p a n y	
will continue in business.
T h e	D i r e c t o r s	a r e	r e s p o n s i b l e	f o r	k e e p i n g	a d e q u a t e	a c c o u n t i n g	r e c o rd s	t h a t	a r e	s u ffi c i e n t	t o	s h o w	a n d	e x p l a i n	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	
C o m p a n y ’ s	t r a n s a c t i o n s	a n d	d i s c l o s e	w i t h	r e a s o n a b l e	a c c u r a c y	a t	a n y	t i m e	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	p o s i t i o n	o f	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	C o m p a n y	a n d	
e n a b l e	t h e m	t o	e n s u r e	t h a t	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a n d	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	R e m u n e r a t i o n	R e p o r t	c o m p l y	w i t h	t h e	C o m p a n i e s	A c t	2 0 0 6	
a n d ,	a s	r e g a rd s	t h e	G r o u p	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	A r t i c l e	4	o f	t h e	I A S	R e g u l a t i o n .
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group and Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
K i n g d o m	g o v e r n i n g	t h e	p r e p a r a t i o n	a n d	d i s s e m i n a t i o n	o f	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	m a y	d i ff e r	f r o m	l e g i s l a t i o n	i n	o t h e r	j u r i s d i c t i o n s .
The Directors consider that the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and Statements provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group and Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy.
E a c h	o f	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ,	w h o s e	n a m e s	a n d	f u n c t i o n s	a r e	l i s t e d	o n	p a g e s	5 4	a n d	5 5	c o n fi r m	t h a t ,	t o	t h e	b e s t	o f	t h e i r	k n o w l e d g e :
• 	 t h e	C o m p a n y	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	w h i c h	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	i n	a c c o rd a n c e	w i t h	I F R S s	a s	a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	E u r o p e a n	U n i o n ,	g i v e	
a	t r u e	a n d	f a i r	v i e w	o f	t h e	a s s e t s ,	l i a b i l i t i e s ,	fi n a n c i a l	p o s i t i o n	a n d	p r ofi t	o f	t h e	C o m p a n y ;
•	 	 t h e	G r o u p	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	w h i c h	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	i n	a c c o rd a n c e	w i t h	I F R S s	a s	a d o p t e d	b y	t h e	E u r o p e a n	U n i o n ,	g i v e	a	
t r u e	a n d	f a i r	v i e w	o f	t h e	a s s e t s ,	l i a b i l i t i e s ,	fi n a n c i a l	p o s i t i o n	a n d	p r ofi t	o f	t h e	G r o u p ;	a n d
•   the Directors’ Report, Operations and Business reporting (contained in the Chief Executive’s report and Strategic Report sections 
of the Annual Report) include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
I n	t h e	c a s e	o f	e a c h	D i r e c t o r	i n	offi c e	a t	t h e	d a t e	t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	R e p o r t	i s	a p p r o v e d :
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group and Company’s auditors are unaware; and
•   they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group and Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Owen Michaelson 
Andrew Kirkman 
19 April 2017
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
i n	r e s p e c t	o f	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s
  92 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Harworth Group plc
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• H a r w o r t h 	 G r o u p 	 p l c ’ s 	 G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 a n d 	 C o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 ( t h e 	 “ fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s ” ) 	 g i v e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 fa i r 	
v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e 	 st a t e 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 a n d 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y ’ s 	 affa i r s 	 a s 	 a t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 1 6 	 a n d 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 p r ofi t 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	
a n d 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y ’ s 	 c a s h 	 fl o ws 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 t h e n 	 e n d e d ;
• t h e 	 G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 ac c o rd a n c e 	 w i t h 	 Int e r n a t i o n a l 	 F i n a n c i a l 	 R e p o r t i n g 	 S t a n d a rd s 	
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
• t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 ac c o rd a n c e 	 w i t h 	 IFR S s 	 a s 	 ad o p t e d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 E u r o p e a n 	 U n i o n 	 a n d 	
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 ac c o rd a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 r e q u i r e m e nt s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n i e s 	 A c t 	 2 0 0 6 	 a n d , 	 a s 	 r e g a rd s 	 t h e 	
G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s , 	 A r t i c l e 	 4 	 o f 	 t h e 	 I AS 	 R e g u l a t i o n .
What we have audited
The 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s , 	 included 	 wit hin 	 t he 	 Annual 	 Repor t 	 and 	 A ccoun t s 	 ( t he 	 “ Annual 	 Repor t ”) , 	 comprise :
• the Balance sheets as at 31 December 2016;
•  the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
•  the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
• 	 t h e 	 S t a t e m e nt s 	 o f 	 c a s h 	 fl o ws 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 t h e n 	 e n d e d ; 	 a n d
• 	 t h e 	 n o t e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s , 	 w h i c h 	 i n c l u d e 	 a 	 s u m m a r y 	 o f 	 s i g n i fi c a nt 	 ac c o u nt i n g 	 p o l i c i e s 	 a n d 	 o t h e r 	 e x p l a n a t o r y 	 i nf o r m a t i o n .
Cer tain 	 r equir ed 	 disclosur es 	 ha v e 	 been 	 pr esen t ed 	 else wher e 	 in 	 t he 	 Annual 	 Repor t , 	 r a t her 	 t han 	 in 	 t he 	 no t es 	 t o 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s . 	
These 	 ar e 	 cr oss - r e f er enced 	 fr om 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 and 	 ar e 	 iden t ified 	 as 	 audit ed .
The 	 financial 	 r epor t ing 	 fr ame w ork 	 t ha t 	 has 	 been 	 applied 	 in 	 t he 	 pr epar a t ion 	 o f 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 is 	 I F RSs 	 as 	 a dop t ed 	 b y 	 t he 	
E ur opean 	 Union 	 and , 	 as 	 r egards 	 t he 	 Compan y 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s , 	 as 	 applied 	 in 	 a ccordance 	 wit h 	 t he 	 pr o visions 	 o f 	 t he 	 Companies 	 A ct 	
2006, and applicable law. 
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Overview
• Overall Group materiality: £4.6m which represents 1% of total assets. 
•	 	 W e 	 iden t ified 	 t he 	 r epor t ing 	 unit s 	 wit hin 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 t ha t 	 ha d 	 t he 	 mos t 	 significan t 	 e ff ect 	 on 	 t he 	 Balance 	 shee t 	 and/ or 	
the Consolidated income statement.
•  We performed full scope audit work on the Balance sheet and/or the Consolidated income statement as 
appropriate.
•  The reporting units subject to full scope audit work on the Balance Sheet and/or the Consolidated income statement 
a ccoun t ed 	 f or 	 98 % 	 o f 	 t o tal 	 asse t s 	 and 	 7 9 % 	 o f 	 pr ofit 	 be f or e 	 ta x .
• Valuation of investment property.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK and Ireland)”).
W e 	 designed 	 our 	 audit 	 b y 	 de t ermining 	 ma t erialit y 	 and 	 assessing 	 t he 	 risk s 	 o f 	 ma t erial 	 miss ta t emen t 	 in 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s . 	 I n 	 par t icular , 	
w e 	 look ed 	 a t 	 wher e 	 t he 	 Dir ect ors 	 ma de 	 subject iv e 	 judgemen t s , 	 f or 	 e x ample 	 in 	 r espect 	 o f 	 significan t 	 a ccoun t ing 	 es t ima t es 	 t ha t 	 in v olv ed 	
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The 	 risk s 	 o f 	 ma t erial 	 miss ta t emen t 	 t ha t 	 ha d 	 t he 	 gr ea t es t 	 e ff ect 	 on 	 our 	 audit , 	 including 	 t he 	 alloca t ion 	 o f 	 our 	 r esour ces 	 and 	 e ff or t , 	 ar e	
iden t ified 	 as 	 “ ar eas 	 o f 	 f ocus ” 	 in 	 t he 	 table 	 on 	 pa ge 	 93 . 	 W e 	 ha v e 	 also 	 se t 	 out 	 ho w 	 w e 	 tailor ed 	 our 	 audit 	 t o 	 a ddr ess 	 t hese 	 specific 	 ar eas 	 in 	
order 	 t o 	 pr o vide 	 an 	 opinion 	 on 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 as 	 a 	 whole , 	 and 	 an y 	 commen t s 	 w e 	 mak e 	 on 	 t he 	 r esult s 	 o f 	 our 	 pr ocedur es 	 should 	
be 	 r ea d 	 in 	 t his 	 con t e x t . 	 This 	 is 	 no t 	 a 	 comple t e 	 lis t 	 o f 	 all 	 risk s 	 iden t ified 	 b y 	 our 	 audit . 	
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Harworth Group plc
  HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 93
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AREA OF FOCUS
Valuation of investment property (£379.2m) (Refer to Note 17 of the financial 
statements) How our audit addressed the area of focus
   
We focused on this area because the Group’s investment property assets 
r epr esent	a	significant	pr oportion	of	the	assets	in	the	Consolidated	
balance sheet.
The Group’s portfolio includes properties at varying stages of completion, 
across various sectors, including mixed-use, industrial and retail. 
Property valuations are subject to a high degree of judgement as they 
ar e	calculated	fr om	a	number	of	differ ent	assumptions	specific	to	each	
individual property. These include actual and estimated rental values, 
yields, costs to complete and expected land values per acre.
The Group engaged independent external valuers to value its investment 
properties in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(“RICS”) Valuation – Professional Standards.
For the majority of properties, the residual appraisal method was used, 
by estimating the fair value of the completed project using a capitalisation 
method based on expected land values per acre less estimated costs to 
completion and a risk premium. Completed properties were valued on an 
income approach basis, taking into consideration assumptions for yields 
and estimated market rent.
A relatively small percentage change in the valuations of individual 
properties, in aggregate, could result in a material impact on the 
financial	statements.	
We read the third party property valuation reports obtained by the 
Directors and considered if the overall approach and methodology 
adopted were appropriate given the nature of the properties being valued 
and whether they were in line with market practice. We also considered 
the extent to which the approach and methodology were consistent with 
prior years.
For a sample of properties representing 76% of the value of the 
property portfolio, we discussed the valuation approach on a property 
by property basis directly with the third party valuer. We considered the 
specific	assumptions	used	by	the	valuer	for	each	pr operty ,	including	
the expected land values per acre, costs to complete, estimated rental 
values and yields, and considered whether these were consistent with 
market evidence and, where relevant, actual sale proceeds on properties 
disposed of during the year. For properties where further investment 
property spend is forecast to be incurred, we obtained management 
estimates for the costs to completion to be incurred and for a sample 
of costs agreed to supporting documentation, such as tenders or 
agreements, to check the accuracy of the forecast costs.
In addition, we considered the extent to which existing surface mining 
tenants on investment property owned by the Group would perform 
their obligations to remediate land at the conclusion of mining activity. 
Where restoration obligations may revert to the Group, we considered 
whether these were appropriately considered in the carrying value of 
the investment property and where appropriate agreed back to third 
party estimates.
We found the methodologies used by the third party valuers to be 
consistent across the portfolio of properties and with prior years. We also 
found that the assumptions used were within the ranges typically used for 
similar valuations.
   
How we tailored the audit scope
W e 	 tailor ed 	 t he 	 scope 	 o f 	 our 	 audit 	 t o 	 ensur e 	 t ha t 	 w e 	 per f ormed 	 enough 	 w ork 	 t o 	 be 	 able 	 t o 	 giv e 	 an 	 opinion 	 on 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 as 	 a 	
whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates. 
The 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 s t ruct ur ed 	 along 	 t w o 	 business 	 lines 	 being 	 C apital 	 Gr o w t h 	 and 	 I ncome 	 Gener a t ion . 	 The 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 ar e 	 a 	
consolidation of the 28 reporting units within these two business lines and the Group’s centralised functions.
Of 	 t he 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 2 8 	 r epor t ing 	 unit s , 	 w e 	 iden t ified 	 5 	 which , 	 in 	 our 	 vie w , 	 ha d 	 t he 	 mos t 	 significan t 	 e ff ect 	 on 	 t he 	 Balance 	 shee t 	 and/ or 	 t he 	
Consolidated income statement due to their size or their risk characteristics. We performed a full scope audit on the Balance sheet and/or 
the Consolidated income statement as appropriate. The reporting units subject to full scope audit work on the Balance sheet and/or the 
Consolida t ed 	 income 	 s ta t emen t 	 a ccoun t ed 	 f or 	 98 % 	 o f 	 t o tal 	 asse t s 	 and 	 7 9 % 	 o f 	 pr ofit 	 be f or e 	 ta x .
This, together with additional procedures performed on the Group’s centralised functions, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion 
on 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 as 	 a 	 whole .
All work was performed by the Group audit team; no component auditors were involved.
Materiality
The 	 scope 	 o f 	 our 	 audit 	 w as 	 in fluenced 	 b y 	 our 	 applica t ion 	 o f 	 ma t erialit y . 	 W e 	 se t 	 cer tain 	 quan t ita t iv e 	 t hr esholds 	 f or 	 ma t erialit y . 	 These , 	
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
pr ocedur es 	 on 	 t he 	 individual 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t 	 line 	 it ems 	 and 	 disclosur es 	 and 	 in 	 e v alua t ing 	 t he 	 e ffect 	 o f 	 miss ta t emen t s , 	 bo t h 	 individually 	
and 	 on 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 as 	 a 	 whole . 	
Based 	 on 	 our 	 pr o f essional 	 judgemen t , 	 w e 	 de t ermined 	 ma t erialit y 	 f or 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 as 	 a 	 whole 	 as 	 f ollo w s :
  
Overall Group materially £4.6m (2015: £3.9m)
How we determined it 1% of total assets
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Group’s value is direct property investments. Due to 
this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties. On this basis, we set an overall 
Group materiality level based on total assets.
  
W e 	 a gr eed 	 wit h 	 t he 	 A udit 	 Commit t ee 	 t ha t 	 w e 	 w ould 	 r epor t 	 t o 	 t hem 	 miss ta t emen t s 	 iden t ified 	 during 	 our 	 audit 	 abo v e 	 £ 1 96 , 0 0 0 	
(2015: £175,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 94 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Harworth Group plc
Going concern
The Directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(3)(a) of the Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in 
relation to going concern, set out on page 45, required for companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a premium listed Company. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review.
The Directors have chosen to voluntarily report how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) as if the 
Company were a premium listed Company. Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to 
add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis 	 in 	 pr eparing 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s . 	 W e 	 ha v e 	 no t hing 	 ma t erial 	 t o 	 a dd 	 or 	 t o 	 dr a w 	 a t t en t ion 	 t o . 	
As noted in the Directors’ statement on page 45, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
pr eparing 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s . 	 The 	 going 	 concern 	 basis 	 pr esumes 	 t ha t 	 t he 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 Compan y 	 ha v e 	 a dequa t e 	 r esour ces 	 t o 	 r emain 	
in 	 oper a t ion , 	 and 	 t ha t 	 t he 	 Dir ect ors 	 in t end 	 t hem 	 t o 	 do 	 so , 	 f or 	 a t 	 leas t 	 one 	 y ear 	 fr om 	 t he 	 da t e 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 w er e 	 signed . 	 As 	 par t 	
of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• t h e 	 i nf o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 S t ra t e g i c 	 R e p o r t 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 R e p o r t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 y e a r 	 f o r 	 w h i c h 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 a r e 	
p r e p a r e d 	 i s 	 c o n s i st e nt 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s ; 	 a n d
• the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the 
audit , 	 w e 	 ar e 	 r equir ed 	 t o 	 r epor t 	 if 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 iden t ified 	 an y 	 ma t erial 	 miss ta t emen t s 	 in 	 t he 	 St r a t egic 	 Repor t 	 and 	 t he 	 Dir ect ors ’ 	 Repor t . 	 W e 	 ha v e 	
nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
  
As a result of the Directors’ voluntary reporting on how they have applied the Code, under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
  
• information in the Annual Report is:
 – m at e r i a l l y 	 i n c o n s i s t e nt 	 w i th 	 th e 	 i n fo r m ati o n 	 i n 	 th e 	 a u d i t e d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t at e m e n ts ; 	 o r
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
  
• the statement given by the Directors on page 81, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the Code, that 
they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
  
• the section of the Annual Report on page 80, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the 
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
   HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 95
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
  
As a result of the Directors’ voluntary reporting on how they have applied the Code, under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
  
• th e 	 D i re c t o r s ’ 	 c o n fi r m ati o n 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 4 2 	 o f 	 th e 	 A n n u a l 	 R e p o r t , 	 i n 	 a c c o rd a n c e 	 w i th 	 p ro v i s i o n 	 C . 2 . 1 	 o f 	 th e 	
Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
  
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
  
• the Directors’ explanation on page 45 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so 
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
ne c e s s a r y	q u al ifi c ation s 	o r	as s u m ption s.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
  
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 R e m u n e ra t i o n 	 R e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 a r e 	 n o t 	 i n 	 ag r e e m e nt 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under 	 t he 	 Companies 	 A ct 	 2 0 06 	 w e 	 ar e 	 r equir ed 	 t o 	 r epor t 	 t o 	 y ou 	 if , 	 in 	 our 	 opinion , 	 cer tain 	 disclosur es 	 o f 	 Dir ect ors ’ 	 r emuner a t ion 	 specified 	
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 and 	 f or 	 being 	 sa t is fied 	 t ha t 	 t he y 	 giv e 	 a 	 t rue 	 and 	 f air 	 vie w .
Our 	 r esponsibilit y 	 is 	 t o 	 audit 	 and 	 e xpr ess 	 an 	 opinion 	 on 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 in 	 a ccordance 	 wit h 	 applicable 	 la w 	 and 	 I S As 	 (UK 	 and 	
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An 	 audit 	 in v olv es 	 ob taining 	 e vidence 	 about 	 t he 	 amoun t s 	 and 	 disclosur es 	 in 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 sufficien t 	 t o 	 giv e 	 r easonable 	 assur ance 	
t ha t 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 ar e 	 fr ee 	 fr om 	 ma t erial 	 miss ta t emen t , 	 whe t her 	 caused 	 b y 	 fr aud 	 or 	 err or . 	 This 	 includes 	 an 	 assessmen t 	 o f : 	
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• t h e 	 r e a s o n a b l e n e s s 	 o f 	 s i g n i fi c a nt 	 ac c o u nt i n g 	 e st i m a t e s 	 m ad e 	 b y 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ; 	 a n d
• t h e 	 o v e ra l l 	 p r e s e nt a t i o n 	 o f 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e nt s . 	
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgemen t s , 	 and 	 e v alua t ing 	 t he 	 disclosur es 	 in 	 t he 	 financial 	 s ta t emen t s .
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
r easonable 	 basis 	 f or 	 us 	 t o 	 dr a w 	 conclusions . 	 W e 	 ob tain 	 audit 	 e vidence 	 t hr ough 	 t es t ing 	 t he 	 e ff ect iv eness 	 o f 	 con t r ols , 	 subs tan t iv e	
procedures or a combination of both.  96 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Harworth Group plc
I n 	 a ddit ion , 	 w e 	 r ea d 	 all 	 t he 	 financial 	 and 	 non - financial 	 in f orma t ion 	 in 	 t he 	 Annual 	 Repor t 	 t o 	 iden t if y 	 ma t erial 	 inconsis t encies 	 wit h 	 t he 	 audit ed 	
financial 	 s ta t emen t s 	 and 	 t o 	 iden t if y 	 an y 	 in f orma t ion 	 t ha t 	 is 	 appar en t ly 	 ma t erially 	 incorr ect 	 based 	 on , 	 or 	 ma t erially 	 inconsis t en t 	 wit h , 	 t he 	
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we consider 
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Andy Ward (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Sheffield 
19 April 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 97
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Note
Year ended  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
Year ended  
31 December  
2015  
 £’000
    
Revenue 4 33,693 13,172 
Cost of sales (20,905)  (6,013)      
Gross profit 12,788 7,159 
Administrative expenses 7 (10,457)  (5,731)  Increase in fair value of investment properties 7 33,713 24,060
Decr ease	in	fair	value	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale 7 (224)  –
Pr ofit	on	sale	of	investment	pr operties 7 9,166 8,180
Loss	on	sale	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale 7 (375)  –
Other gains 7 747 3,208
Other operating (expenses)/income 7 (204)  176 
    
Operating profit before exceptional items 45,154 37,052
Exceptional income 6 689 –
Exceptional expense 6 (682)  (2,859)      
Operating profit 45,161 34,193 
Finance income 9 247 62 
Finance costs 9 (2,588)  (1,803)  Shar e	of	pr ofit	of	associate	and	joint	ventur es 18 647 856 
Gain on bargain purchase 3 – 44,244
    
Profit before tax 43,467 77,552 
Tax charge 11 (3,566)  (3,508)      
Profit for the financial year 39,901 74,044
    
Profit per share from continuing operations attributable to the owners of the Group during the year
Earnings per share from operations Note pence pence
    
Basic and diluted earnings per share  14 3.5 3.1
    
T h e	N o t e s	o n	p a g e s	1 0 3	t o	1 3 2	a r e	a n	i n t e g r a l	p a r t	o f	t h e	c o n s o l i d a t e d	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .	
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2016 98 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Balance sheets
as at 31 December 2016
Note
Year ended  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
Year ended  
31 December  
2015 
 £’000
    
Profit for the financial year 39,901 74,044 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income – items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Fair	value	of	financial	instruments 25 ( 366 )  –
Net actuarial loss in Blenkinsopp Pension Scheme 27 (269)  (3)  Revaluation of Group occupied property 15 (17)  –
Deferred tax on actuarial loss 11 94 –
    
Total other comprehensive expense (558)  (3)      
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 39,343 74,041 
    
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 99
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Balance sheets
as at 31 December 2016
Group Company
  
Note
As at  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
As at  
31 December  
2015  
 £’000
As at  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
As at  
31 December  
2015 
 £’000
      
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 789 – – –
Other receivables 16 1,397 650 – –
Retirement asset 27 – – 602 435 
Investment properties 17 379,190 334,617 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 18 – – 207,896 207,896 
Investment in associates 18 – – – – 
Investment in joint ventures 18 10,549 768 – –
Deferred income tax asset – – 3,053 –
      
  391,925 336,035 211,551 208,331 
      
Current assets
Inventories 19 733 1,092 – –
Trade and other receivables 20 24,444 19,906 9,151 7,670
Assets	classified	as	held	for	sale 21 8,350 9,128 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 22 13,007 27,564 2,171 6,887 
      
  46,534 57,690 11,322 14,557
      
Total assets 438,459 393,725 222,873 222,888 
      
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (1,819)  (400)  – –
Trade and other payables 24 (33,719)   (17,369)  (1,885)   (1,011)        
  (35,538)   (17,769)  (1,885)  (1,011)        
Net current assets 10,996 39,921 9,437 13,546
      
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (50,659)  (64,119)  – –
Trade and other payables 24 (1,520)  (2,280)  – –
Derivative	financial	instruments 25 ( 366 )  – – –
Deferred income tax liabilities 11 (14,851)  (11,379)  – –
Retir ement	benefit	obligations 27 ( 6 0 2 )   (435)  ( 6 0 2 )  (435)        
  (67,998)  (78,213)  ( 6 0 2 )  (435)        
Total liabilities (103,536)  (95,982)  (2,487)  (1,446)        
Net assets 334,923 297,743 220,386 221,442
      
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 28 29,227 29,227 29,227 29,227 
Share premium account 29 – 129,121 – 129,121 
Fair value reserve 58,279 24,060 – –
Capital redemption reserve 257 257 257 257 
Merger reserve 45,667 45,667 45,667 45,667
Curr ent	year	pr ofit/(loss) 39,901 74,044 1,348 (1,661)  Retained	ear nings/(deficit) 161,592 (4,633)  143,887 18,831 
      
Total equity 334,923 297,743 220,386 221,442
      
T he 	 financial 	 sta t e me n t s 	 on 	 page s 	 9 7 	 t o 	 1 3 2 	 w e r e 	 appr o v e d 	 b y 	 t he 	 Board 	 o f 	 D ir e ct ors 	 on 	 1 9 	 A pr il 	 2 0 1 7 	 and 	 w e r e 	 signe d 	 on 	 it s 	 be half 	 b y :
Owen Michaelson Andrew Kirkman 
Chief Executive Finance Director Company Registered Number 2649340
Balance sheets
as at 31 December 2016 100 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Note
Called up  
share  
capital  
 £’000
Share  
premium  
account  
 £’000
Merger  
reserve  
 £’000
Fair value 
reserve*  
 £’000
Capital 
redemption  
reserve  
 £’000
Retained  
earnings  
 £’000
Total  
equity  
 £’000
         
Balance at 1 January 2015 6,055 32,911 –  –  257  19,430 58,653
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	to	31	December	2015 – – –  –  – 74,044 74,044
Transfer of fair value gain on revaluation of investment 
properties –  –  – 24,060 – (24,060)   – 
Other comprehensive expense:
Re-measur ement	of	post-r etir ement	benefits 27 – – –  –  – (3)   (3)            
Total comprehensive income for the year 
ended 31 December 2015
 
– – – 24,060 – 49,981 74,041 
         
Transactions with owners:
Shares issued 28 15,865 99,160 – – – – 115,025
Costs relating to share issue 29 – (2,950)  – – – – (2,950)  Shares issued in lieu of consideration 28 7,307 – 45,667 – – – 52,974
         
Balance at 31 December 2015 and 1 January 2016 29,227 129,121 45,667 24,060 257 69,411 297,743
         
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	to	31	December	2016 – – – – – 39,901 39,901
Transfer of fair value gain on revaluation of investment 
properties 17 –  – – 33,713 – (33,713) –
T ransfer	of	fair	value	decr ease	on	assets	classified	 
as held for sale 21 –  – – (224)  – 224 –
Transfer of other gains 16 –  – – 747 – (747) –
Other comprehensive expense: 
Actuarial loss in Blenkinsopp pension scheme 27 – – – – – (269)  (269)  Revaluation of Group occupied property 15 – – – (17)  – – (17)  Fair	value	of	financial	instruments 25 – – – – – (366)  (366)  Deferred tax on actuarial loss on pension scheme 11 – – – – – 94 94
         
Total comprehensive income for the year  
ended 31 December 2016
 
– – – 34,219 – 5,124 39,343
Transactions with owners:
Transfer of share premium to other distributable reserves 29 – (129,121)  – – – 129,121 –
Dividends paid – – – – – (2,163)  (2,163)           
Balance at 31 December 2016 29,227 – 45,667 58,279 257 201,493 334,923
         
*The fair value reserve relates to unrealised gains and losses arising primarily from the revaluation of investment properties. 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 101
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Note
Called up 
share  
capital  
 £’000
Share  
premium  
account  
 £’000
Merger 
reserve**  
 £’000
Capital 
redemption  
reserve  
 £’000
Retained  
earnings  
 £’000
Total  
equity  
 £’000
        
Balance at 1 January 2015 6,055 32,911 – 257 17,978 57,201
Loss	for	the	financial	year	to	31	December	2015 – – –  – (1,661)  (1,661) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Change in value of investment in associate* – – –  – 856 856 
Re-measur ement	of	post-r etir ement	benefits 27 – – –  – (3)   (3)   Transactions with owners:
Shares issued 28 15,865 99,160 – – – 115,025 
Costs relating to share issue 29 – (2,950)  – – – (2,950)  Shares issued in lieu of consideration 28 7,307 – 45,667 – – 52,974 
        
Balance at 31 December 2015 and 1 January 2016 29,227 129,121 45,667 257  17,170  221,442 
        
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	to	31	December	2016 –  – – – 1,348 1,348 
Re-measur ement	of	post-r etir ement	benefits 27 – – – – (269)  (269)  Deferred tax on actuarial loss on pension scheme – – – – 28 28
        
Total comprehensive income for the year  
ended 31 December 2016 –  – – – 1,107  1,107  
Transactions with owners:
Transfer of share premium to other distributable reserves 29 – (129,121)  – – 129,121 –
Dividends paid – – – – (2,163)  (2,163)          
Balance at 31 December 2016 29,227 – 45,667 257  145,235 220,386 
        
* c h a n g e	i n	t h e	f a i r	v a l u e	o f	a s s o c i a t e	i s	s h o w n	w i t h i n	o t h e r	c o m p r e h e n s i v e	i n c o m e	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	a c c o u n t i n g	t r e a t m e n t	w i t h i n	t h e	C o m p a n y ’ s	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	( N o t e	1 8 ) .
* * T h e	m e r g e r	r e s e r v e	r e fl e c t s	t h e	p r e m i u m	o n	t h e	s h a r e s	i s s u e d	t o	t h e	P P F	a s	p a r t	o f	t h e	c o n s i d e r a t i o n	f o r	t h e	p u r c h a s e	o f	7 5 . 1 %	o f	t h e	i s s u e d	s h a r e	c a p i t a l	o f	H E P G L	a s	
detailed in Note 3.
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016 102 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Statements of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Statements of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2016
N o t e s	t o	t he	fi n a n c ia l	s t a t e me n t s
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Group Company
  
Note
Year ended  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
Year ended  
31 December  
2015 
 £’000
Year ended  
31 December  
2016  
 £’000
Year ended  
31 December  
2015  
 £’000
      
Cash flows from operating activities
Pr ofit/(loss) 	 befor e 	 tax 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year 43,467 77,552 (1,707)  (1,661)  Net interest payable/(receivable) 9 2,341 1,741 (183)   (109)  Pr ofit 	 on 	 disposal 	 of 	 subsidiary 18 – – – (1,426)  Shar e 	 of 	 post-tax 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 associate 18 – (856)   –  – 
Gain on bargain purchase 3 – (44,244)  – –
Fair value increase in investment properties 17 (33,713)   (24,060)   – –
Fair 	 value 	 decr ease 	 on 	 assets 	 classified 	 as 	 held 	 for 	 sale 7 224 – – –
Pr ofit 	 on 	 sale 	 of 	 investment 	 pr operties 7 (9,166)  (8,180)  – –
Loss 	 on 	 sale 	 of 	 assets 	 classified 	 as 	 held 	 for 	 sale 7 375 – – –
Other gains 7 (747)  (3,208)  – –
Shar e 	 of 	 (pr ofit)/loss 	 of 	 joint 	 ventur e 18 (647)  465 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 2 – – –
Pension contributions in excess of charge ( 1 0 2 )  (132)  ( 1 0 2 )   (3)        
Operating 	 cash 	 inflows/(outflows) 	 befor e 	 movements 	 in 	 working 	 capital 2,034 (922)  (1,992)   (3,199)  Decrease/(increase) in inventories 359 (781)  – –
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (634)  9,881 (1,584)  90
Increase/(decrease) in payables 3,715 (10,512)  1,014 654 
      
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 5,474 (2,334)  (2,562)   (2,455)   Loan arrangement fees paid (150)   (170)  – – 
Interest paid (1,861)   (1,101)  – – 
Cash generated from discontinued operations 2 – 228 – – 
      
Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 3,463 (3,377)  (2,562)   (2,455)        
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 247 62 9 32
Acquisition of joint venture (9,134)  – – –
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 3 – (87,823)  – (97,026)  Proceeds from disposal of investment properties and option 53,201 42,302 – –
Expenditure on investment properties (47,528)  (41,215)  – –
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment (25)  – – –
Cash used by discontinued operations 2 – (1,068)   – – 
      
Cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (3,239)  (87,742)   9 (96,994)        
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares – 112,075 – 112,075
Proceeds from other loans 5,187 13,455 – – 
Repayment of bank loans (12,000)   (400)   – – 
Repayment of other loans (5,805)  (8,776)  – –
Loan to subsidiary undertakings – – – (7,228)  Dividends paid (2,163)  – (2,163)   – 
      
Cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (14,781)   116,354 (2,163)   104,847
      
(Decrease)/increase in cash (14,557)  25,235 (4,716)   5,398
      
At 1 January
Cash 27,564 1,489 6,887 1,489
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 classified 	 as 	 held 	 for 	 sale – 840 – –
      
  27,564 2,329 6,887 1,489
      
(Decrease)/Increase in cash (14,557)   26,075 (4,716)   5,398
Decr ease 	 in 	 cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 classified 	 as 	 held 	 for 	 sale – (840)  – –
      
  13,007 25,235 2,171 5,398
      
At 31 December
Cash 13,007 27,564 2,171 6,887 
Cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents 	 classified 	 as 	 held 	 for 	 sale – – – – 
      
Cash and cash equivalents 22 13,007 27,564 2,171 6,887 
      
St a t e me n t s	o f	c as h	flo w s
for the year ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 103
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. Accounting policies
T h e	p r i n c i p a l	a c c o u n t i n g	p o l i c i e s	a d o p t e d	i n	t h e	p r e p a r a t i o n	o f	t h e s e	c o n s o l i d a t e d	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a r e	s e t	o u t	b e l o w .	 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
General information
H a r w o r t h	G r o u p	p l c	( t h e	‘ C o m p a n y ’ )	i s	a	l i m i t e d	C o m p a n y	i n c o r p o r a t e d	a n d	d o m i c i l e d	i n	t h e	U K .	T h e	a d d r e s s	o f	i t s	r e g i s t e r e d	offi c e	
i s	A d v a n t a g e	H o u s e ,	P o p l a r	W a y ,	C a t c l i ff e ,	R o t h e r h a m ,	S o u t h	Y o r k s h i r e	S 6 0	5 T R .
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation
T h e	G r o u p	a n d	C o m p a n y	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	o f	H a r w o r t h	G r o u p	p l c	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	o n	a	g o i n g	c o n c e r n	b a s i s	a n d	i n	
accordance with EU adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations. The consolidated 
fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	u n d e r	t h e	h i s t o r i c a l	c o s t	c o n v e n t i o n ,	a s	m o d i fi e d	b y	t h e	r e v a l u a t i o n	o f	i n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t i e s	
a n d	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s .
Going concern basis
T h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a r e	p r e p a r e d	o n	t h e	b a s i s	t h a t	t h e	G r o u p	i s	a	g o i n g	c o n c e r n .	I n	f o r m i n g	i t s	o p i n i o n	a s	t o	g o i n g	c o n c e r n ,	
t h e	B o a rd	p r e p a r e s	c a s h	fl o w	f o r e c a s t s	b a s e d	u p o n	i t s	a s s u m p t i o n s	w i t h	p a r t i c u l a r	c o n s i d e r a t i o n	t o	t h e	k e y	r i s k s	a n d	u n c e r t a i n t i e s	
as summarised in ‘Key risks and uncertainties’ section of this annual report, as well as taking into account the available borrowing 
facilities in line with the Treasury Policy disclosed on page 126.
The key factor that has been considered in this regard is:
T h e	G r o u p	h a s	a	£ 7 5 m	r e v o l v i n g	c r e d i t	f a c i l i t y	w i t h	T h e	R o y a l	B a n k	o f	S c o t l a n d ,	f o r	a	t e r m	o f	fi v e	y e a r s ,	o n	a	n o n - a m o r t i s i n g	b a s i s .	
The facility is in the form of a debenture security whereby there is no charge on the individual assets of the Group. The facility is 
s u b j e c t	t o	fi n a n c i a l	a n d	o t h e r	c o v e n a n t s .
T h e	c o v e n a n t s	a r e	b a s e d	u p o n	g e a r i n g ,	t a n g i b l e	n e t	w o r t h ,	l o a n	t o	p r o p e r t y	v a l u e s	a n d	i n t e r e s t	c o v e r .	P r o p e r t y	v a l u a t i o n s	a ff e c t	t h e	
loan to value covenants. Breach of covenants could result in the need to pay down in part some of these loans, additional costs, or a 
renegotiation of terms or, in extremis, a reduction or withdrawal of facilities by the banks concerned.
T h e	D i r e c t o r s	c o n fi r m	t h e i r	b e l i e f	t h a t	i t	i s	a p p r o p r i a t e	t o	u s e	t h e	g o i n g	c o n c e r n	b a s i s	o f	p r e p a r a t i o n	f o r	t h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .
Accounting policies
The Group did not early adopt any new or amended standards and does not plan to early adopt any standards issued but not yet 
e ffe c ti v e . 	
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises rental and other land related income arising on investment properties and income from construction contracts. 
Rentals are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term of ongoing leases.
R e v e n u e	f r o m	t h e	s a l e	o f	c o a l	fi n e s	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	a t	t h e	p o i n t	o f	d e s p a t c h .
R e v e n u e	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	t o	t h e	e x t e n t	t h a t	i t	i s	p r o b a b l e	t h a t	t h e	e c o n o m i c	b e n e fi t s	w i l l	fl o w	t o	t h e	G r o u p	a n d	t h e	r e v e n u e	c a n	b e	
reliably measured. All such revenue is reported net of discounts, and value added and other sales taxes.
Construction contracts
Contracts for the construction of substantial assets are accounted for as construction contracts. Where the outcome of a 
construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion to 
recognise in a given period. The assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contracts, but will generally 
be based on the estimated proportion of the total contract costs which have been incurred to date. If a contract is expected to be loss 
making, a provision is recognised for the entire cost.
Interest income and expense
I n t e r e s t	i n c o m e	a n d	e x p e n s e	a r e	r e c o g n i s e d	w i t h i n	‘ fi n a n c e	i n c o m e ’	a n d	‘ fi n a n c e	c o s t s ’	i n	t h e	i n c o m e	s t a t e m e n t	u s i n g	t h e	e ff e c t i v e	
interest rate method. 
T h e	 e ff e c t i v e	 i n t e r e s t	r a t e	 m e t h o d	 i s	 a	 m e t h o d	 o f	 c a l c u l a t i n g	 t h e	 a m o r t i s e d	 c o s t	 o f	 a	 fi n a n c i a l	 a s s e t	 o r	 fi n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t y	 a n d	 o f	 a l l o c a t i n g	
t h e	i n t e r e s t	i n c o m e	o r	i n t e r e s t	e x p e n s e	o v e r	t h e	r e l e v a n t	p e r i o d .	T h e	e ff e c t i v e	i n t e r e s t	r a t e	i s	t h e	r a t e	t h a t	e x a c t l y	d i s c o u n t s	e s t i m a t e d	
f u t u r e	c a s h	p a y m e n t s	o r	r e c e i p t s	t h r o u g h o u t	t h e	e x p e c t e d	l i f e	o f	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t ,	o r	a	s h o r t e r	p e r i o d	w h e r e	a p p r o p r i a t e ,	t o	t h e	
n e t	c a r r y i n g	a m o u n t	o f	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t	o r	fi n a n c i a l	l i a b i l i t y .
N o t e s	t o	t he	fi n a n c ia l	s t a t e me n t s
for the year ended 31 December 2016 104 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
N o t e s	t o	t he	fi n a n c ia l	s t a t e me n t s
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Other receivables (non-current)
Other receivables (non-current) relate to overages. An overage is the right to receive future payments following the sale of investment 
p r o p e r t i e s	i f	s p e c i fi e d	c o n d i t i o n s	r e l a t i n g	t o	t h e	s i t e	a r e	s a t i s fi e d .	T h e	c o n d i t i o n s	m a y	b e	t h e	g r a n t i n g	o f	p l a n n i n g	p e r m i s s i o n	f o r	
development on the site or practical completion of a development. Overages are initially recorded at fair value and are reviewed 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of overages  
is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately as an expense.
Inventories
Inventories comprise options, Planning Promotion Agreements (PPAs) and coal slurry that has been processed and is ready for sale. 
Options to purchase land are agreements that the Group has entered into with the landowners whereby the Group has the option to 
purchase the land within a limited timeframe. The landowners are not generally permitted to sell to any other party during this period, 
unless agreed by the Group. Within this timeframe the Group promotes the land through the planning process at its expense in order 
to gain planning permission. Should the Group be successful in obtaining planning permission it would trigger the option to purchase 
and subsequently sell on the land.
PPAs are agreements that the Group has entered into with the landowners whereby the Group acts as an agent to the landowners in 
e x c h a n g e	f o r	a	f e e	a s	a	s e t	p e r c e n t a g e	o f	t h e	p r o c e e d s	o r	p r ofi t	o f	t h e	e v e n t u a l	s a l e .	T h e	G r o u p	p r o m o t e s	t h e	l a n d	t h r o u g h	t h e	
planning process at its own expense. If the land is sold the Group will receive a fee for its services.
The Group incurs various costs in promoting land held under PPAs. In some instances the agreements allow for the Group to be 
reimbursed for certain expenditure following the conclusion of a successful sale. These costs are held in inventory at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Upon reimbursement, inventory is reduced by the value of the reimbursed cost.
C o a l	fi n e s	t h a t	h a v e	b e e n	p r o c e s s e d	a n d	a r e	r e a d y	f o r	s a l e	a r e	s t a t e d	a t	t h e	l o w e r	o f	c o s t	a n d	e s t i m a t e d	n e t	r e a l i s a b l e	v a l u e .	
I n v e n t o r i e s	c o m p r i s e	a l l	t h e	d i r e c t	c o s t s	i n c u r r e d	i n	b r i n g i n g	t h e	c o a l	fi n e s	t o	t h e i r	p r e s e n t	s t a t e .
Investments in joint ventures
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control established by contractual agreement. Interests  
i n	j o i n t	v e n t u r e s	t h r o u g h	w h i c h	t h e	G r o u p	c a r r i e s	o n	i t s	b u s i n e s s	a r e	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	j o i n t l y	c o n t r o l l e d	e n t i t i e s	a n d	a c c o u n t e d	f o r	u s i n g	
the equity method. This involves recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, in subsequent years, adjusting the 
c a r r y i n g	a m o u n t	o f	t h e	i n v e s t m e n t	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	s h a r e	o f	t h e	j o i n t	v e n t u r e ’ s	r e s u l t s	l e s s	a n y	i m p a i r m e n t	i n	c a r r y i n g	v a l u e	a n d	
any other changes to the joint venture’s net assets such as dividends.
Impairment
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of ‘value in use’ (being the 
p r e s e n t	v a l u e	o f	e x p e c t e d	f u t u r e	c a s h	fl o w s	o f	t h e	r e l e v a n t	c a s h	g e n e r a t i n g	u n i t )	o r	‘ f a i r	v a l u e	l e s s	c o s t s	t o	s e l l ’ .	W h e r e	t h e r e	i s	n o	
b i n d i n g	s a l e	a g r e e m e n t	o r	a c t i v e	m a r k e t ,	f a i r	v a l u e	l e s s	c o s t s	t o	s e l l	i s	b a s e d	o n	t h e	b e s t	i n f o r m a t i o n	a v a i l a b l e	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	a m o u n t	
the Company could receive for the cash generating unit in an arm’s length transaction.
The impairment testing is carried out under the principles described in IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ which includes a number of 
r e st r i c t i o n s 	 o n 	 t h e 	 f u t u r e 	 c a s h 	 fl o ws 	 t h a t 	 c a n 	 b e 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 i n 	 r e s p e c t 	 o f 	 r e st r u c t u r i n g s 	 a n d 	 i m p r o v e m e nt s 	 r e l a t e d 	 t o 	 c a p i t a l 	 e x p e n d i t u r e .
Investment properties
Investment properties are those properties which are not occupied by the Group and which are held for long term rental yields, 
capital appreciation or both. Investment property also includes property that is being developed or constructed for future use as 
investment property. Investment properties comprise freehold land and buildings and are measured at fair value. At the end of a 
fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	t h e	f a i r	v a l u e s	a r e	d e t e r m i n e d	b y	o b t a i n i n g	a n	i n d e p e n d e n t	v a l u a t i o n	p r e p a r e d	i n	a c c o rd a n c e	w i t h	t h e	c u r r e n t	e d i t i o n	o f	
the Appraisal and Valuation Standards published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. External, independent valuation 
fi r m s	h a v i n g	a p p r o p r i a t e ,	r e c o g n i s e d	p r o f e s s i o n a l	q u a l i fi c a t i o n s	a n d	r e c e n t	e x p e r i e n c e	i n	t h e	l o c a t i o n	a n d	c a t e g o r y	o f	p r o p e r t y	b e i n g	
valued are used. 
Where the development of investment property commences with a view to sale, the property is transferred from investment 
properties to inventories at fair value, which is then considered to represent deemed cost.
At each subsequent reporting date, investment properties are re-measured to their fair value. Movements in fair value are included in 
the income statement. 
W h e r e	s p e c i fi c	i n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t i e s	h a v e	b e e n	i d e n t i fi e d	a s	b e i n g	f o r	s a l e	w i t h i n	t h e	n e x t	t w e l v e	m o n t h s ,	a	s a l e	i s	c o n s i d e r e d	h i g h l y	
p r o b a b l e	a n d	t h e	p r o p e r t y	i s	i m m e d i a t e l y	a v a i l a b l e	f o r	s a l e ,	t h e i r	f a i r	v a l u e	i s	s h o w n	u n d e r	a s s e t s	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	h e l d - f o r - s a l e	w i t h i n	
current assets, measured in accordance with the provisions of IAS 40 ‘Investment Property’.
1. Accounting policies: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 105
Profit or loss on disposal of investment properties
Disposals are accounted for when legal completion of the sale has occurred or there has been an unconditional exchange of 
c o n t r a c t s .	P r ofi t s	o r	l o s s e s	o n	d i s p o s a l	a r i s e	f r o m	d e d u c t i n g	t h e	a s s e t ’ s	n e t	c a r r y i n g	v a l u e	a n d	w h e r e	a p p r o p r i a t e	a	p r o p o r t i o n	o f	
future costs attributable to the development of the overall land area from the net proceeds (being net purchase consideration less any 
clawback liability arising on disposal) and is recognised in the income statement. Net carrying value includes valuation in the case of 
investment properties.
In the case of investment properties, any fair value reserve, for the property disposed of is treated as realised on disposal of the 
property and transferred to retained earnings.
Properties in the course of development
Directly attributable costs incurred in the course of developing a property are capitalised as part of the cost of the property.
Development costs on investment properties are capitalised and any resultant change in value is therefore recognised through the 
next revaluation.
Financial assets
F i n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s	a r e	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	h e l d	f o r	t r a d i n g .	A	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t	i s	c l a s s i fi e d	i n	t h i s	c a t e g o r y	i f	
a c q u i r e d	p r i n c i p a l l y	f o r	t h e	p u r p o s e	o f	s e l l i n g	i n	t h e	s h o r t	t e r m .	A s s e t s	i n	t h i s	c a t e g o r y	a r e	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	c u r r e n t	a s s e t s	i f	e x p e c t e d	t o	
b e	s e t t l e d	w i t h i n	1 2	m o n t h s ,	o t h e r w i s e	t h e y	a r e	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	n o n - c u r r e n t .
F i n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	c a r r i e d	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s	a r e	i n i t i a l l y	r e c o g n i s e d	a t	f a i r	v a l u e ,	a n d	t r a n s a c t i o n	c o s t s	a r e	e x p e n s e d	i n	
t h e	i n c o m e	s t a t e m e n t .	F i n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a r e	d e r e c o g n i s e d	w h e n	t h e	r i g h t s	t o	r e c e i v e	c a s h	fl o w s	f r o m	t h e	i n v e s t m e n t s	h a v e	e x p i r e d	o r	
have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
G a i n s	o r	l o s s e s	a r i s i n g	f r o m	c h a n g e s	i n	t h e	f a i r	v a l u e	o f	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s	a r e	p r e s e n t e d	i n	t h e	i n c o m e	
statement within ‘other gains’ in the period in which they arise.
Financial liabilities
Liabilit ies 	 wit hin 	 t he 	 scope 	 o f 	 IA S 	 3 9 	 ar e 	 classified 	 as 	 financial 	 liabilit ies 	 a t 	 f air 	 v alue 	 t hr ough 	 pr ofit 	 or 	 loss 	 or 	 o t her 	 liabilit ies , 	 as 	 appr opria t e .
A	fi n a n c i a l	l i a b i l i t y	i s	d e - r e c o g n i s e d	w h e n	t h e	o b l i g a t i o n	u n d e r	t h e	l i a b i l i t y	i s	d i s c h a r g e d ,	o r	c a n c e l l e d	o r	e x p i r e s .
A l l	l o a n s	a n d	b o r r o w i n g s	a r e	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	o t h e r	l i a b i l i t i e s .	I n i t i a l	r e c o g n i t i o n	i s	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	l e s s	d i r e c t l y	a t t r i b u t a b l e	t r a n s a c t i o n	c o s t s .	
A f t e r	i n i t i a l	r e c o g n i t i o n ,	i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	l o a n s	a n d	b o r r o w i n g s	a r e	s u b s e q u e n t l y	m e a s u r e d	a t	a m o r t i s e d	c o s t	u s i n g	t h e	e ff e c t i v e	
interest method.
Financial liabilities included in trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost. The 
fair value of a non-interest bearing liability is its discounted repayment amount. If the due date of the liability is less than one year, 
discounting is omitted.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when:
• The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events;
• I t	i s	p r o b a b l e	t h a t	a n	o u t fl o w	o f	r e s o u r c e s	w i l l	b e	r e q u i r e d	t o	s e t t l e	t h e	o b l i g a t i o n ;	a n d
• The amount can be reliably estimated.
Pension obligations
T h e	G r o u p	c o n t r i b u t e s	t o	d e fi n e d	c o n t r i b u t i o n	s c h e m e s	f o r	i t s	c u r r e n t	e m p l o y e e s .	T h e	c o s t	o f	t h i s	i s	c h a r g e d	t o	t h e	c o n s o l i d a t e d	
income statement as incurred.
Blenkinsopp pension
F o l l o w i n g	t h e	2 0 1 2	R e s t r u c t u r i n g	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	o n l y	d e fi n e d	b e n e fi t	p e n s i o n	l i a b i l i t y	w a s	f o r	t h e	B l e n k i n s o p p	S e c t i o n	o f	t h e	I n d u s t r y -
W i d e	M i n e w o r k e r s	P e n s i o n	S c h e m e .	T h e	l i a b i l i t y	o f	t h e	G r o u p	t o	m a k e	c o n t r i b u t i o n s	w a s	i n d e m n i fi e d	b y	U K	C o a l	O p e r a t i o n s	L i m i t e d	
(UKCOL). UKCOL went into Creditors Voluntary Liquidation following the Mining Group July 2013 restructuring but as part of this 
restructuring the indemnity was novated to a new Company, UK Coal Production Limited.
A d d i t i o n a l l y	H a r w o r t h	E s t a t e s	M i n e s	P r o p e r t y	L i m i t e d	( H E M P L )	h a s	i n d e m n i fi e d	t h e	C o m p a n y	u p	t o	a n	a m o u n t	o f	£ 3 , 1 0 0 , 0 0 0	s h o u l d	
UK Coal Production Limited fail to pay its obligations under its indemnity. HEMPL is a Company within the Harworth Estates Group 
and owns the freeholds of the deep mines operated by UK Coal Production Limited. Further the Group retains capped charges over 
certain operating deep mines land against this liability but there is no guarantee that these assets would cover the liability, and the 
amount recoverable under such security is limited to the cap of £3,100,000.
During the year to 31 December 2016 all contributions have been paid to the pension fund by the Company. The contribution for the 
year to 31 December 2015 were paid by UK Coal Production Limited.
As a result of uncertainty around the Blenkinsopp pension liability being reimbursed by a third party, the consolidated balance sheet 
recognises a net liability equal to the IAS 19 (revised) liability (Note 27), but no corresponding asset.
The Company recognises a net liability equal to the IAS 19 (revised) liability and an equal amount within non-current assets, due to its 
ability to call upon the HEMPL indemnity.
N o t e s	t o	t he	fi n a n c ia l	s t a t e me n t s
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
1. Accounting policies: continued 106 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are measured at fair value of the 
equity instruments at the date of grant and are expensed on a straight line over the vesting period in the consolidated income 
statement. The fair value of the equity instruments is determined at the date of grant taking into account any market based vesting 
conditions attached to the award. Non-market based vesting conditions are taken into account in estimating the number of awards 
likely to vest. The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed regularly and the expense charged adjusted accordingly.
Operating segments
Management has determined the operating segments based upon the operating reports reviewed by the Executive Board of Directors 
t h a t	a r e	u s e d	t o	a s s e s s	b o t h	p e r f o r m a n c e	a n d	s t r a t e g i c	d e c i s i o n s .	M a n a g e m e n t	h a s	i d e n t i fi e d	t h a t	t h e	E x e c u t i v e	B o a rd	o f	D i r e c t o r s	i s	
the Chief Operating Decision Maker in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’.
The Group is organised into two operating segments: Income Generation and Capital Growth. Group costs are not a reportable 
segment. However, information about them is considered by the Executive Board in conjunction with the reportable segments.
The Income Generation segment focuses on generating rental returns from the business space portfolio, rental returns and royalties from 
energy generation, environmental technologies and the agricultural portfolio, and income generating streams from recycled aggregates 
and secondary coal products. The Capital Growth segment focuses on delivering value by developing the underlying portfolio, and 
includes planning and development activity, value engineering, proactive asset management and strategic land acquisitions.
All operations are carried out in the United Kingdom.
S e g m e n t a l	o p e r a t i n g	p r ofi t	r e p r e s e n t s	t h e	p r ofi t	e a r n e d	b y	e a c h	s e g m e n t	e x c l u d i n g	t h e	p r o fi t	o n	s a l e	a n d	r e v a l u a t i o n	o f	i n v e s t m e n t	
properties and is consistent with the measures reported to the Executive Board for the purpose of the assessment of the 
performance of each segment.
Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
G r o u p	i s	e x p o s e d	t o ,	o r	h a s	r i g h t s	t o ,	v a r i a b l e	r e t u r n s	f r o m	i t s	i n v o l v e m e n t	w i t h	t h e	e n t i t y	a n d	h a s	t h e	a b i l i t y	t o	a ff e c t	t h o s e	r e t u r n s	
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They 
are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity 
interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
c o n s i d e r a t i o n	a r r a n g e m e n t .	I d e n t i fi a b l e	a s s e t s	a c q u i r e d ,	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	a n d	c o n t i n g e n t	l i a b i l i t i e s ,	a s s u m e d	i n	a	b u s i n e s s	c o m b i n a t i o n	
are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on 
an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
a m o u n t s	o f	a c q u i r e e ’ s	i d e n t i fi a b l e	n e t	a s s e t s .
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are 
r e c o g n i s e d	i n	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s .
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated.
Exceptional items
E x c e p t i o n a l	i t e m s	a r e	m a t e r i a l	n o n - r e c u r r i n g	i t e m s	e x c l u d e d	f r o m	m a n a g e m e n t ’ s	a s s e s s m e n t	o f	p r ofi t	b e c a u s e	b y	t h e i r	n a t u r e	t h e y	
c o u l d	d i s t o r t	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	u n d e r l y i n g	q u a l i t y	o f	e a r n i n g s .	T h e s e	a r e	e x c l u d e d	t o	r e fl e c t	p e r f o r m a n c e	i n	a	c o n s i s t e n t	m a n n e r	a n d	i n	l i n e	
with how the business is managed and measured on a day to day basis.
Share capital and reserves
O rd i n a r y	s h a r e s	a r e	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	e q u i t y .	I n c r e m e n t a l	c o s t s	d i r e c t l y	a t t r i b u t a b l e	t o	t h e	i s s u e	o f	n e w	O rd i n a r y	S h a r e s	o r	o p t i o n s	a r e	
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where shares are issued in direct consideration for acquiring shares in another Company, and following which the Group holds at 
least 90% of the nominal share capital of that Company, any premium on the shares issued as consideration is included in a merger 
reserve rather than share premium.
1. Accounting policies: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 107
Property, plant and equipment
Group occupied properties are stated at their fair value, based on market values, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation or 
a c c u m u l a t e d	i m p a i r m e n t	l o s s .	S u r p l u s e s	o n	r e v a l u a t i o n s	a r e	t r a n s f e r r e d	t o	t h e	r e v a l u a t i o n	r e s e r v e .	D e fi c i t s	o n	r e v a l u a t i o n s	a r e	
charged against the revaluation reserve to the extent that there are available surpluses relating to the same asset and are otherwise 
charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
O ffi c e	e q u i p m e n t	i s	s t a t e d	a t	c o s t	l e s s	a c c u m u l a t e d	d e p r e c i a t i o n	a n d	a n y	r e c o g n i s e d	i m p a i r m e n t	l o s s .
D e p r e c i a t i o n	i s	c h a r g e d	s o	a s	t o	w r i t e	off	t h e	c o s t	o r	v a l u a t i o n	o f	a s s e t s	o v e r	t h e i r	e s t i m a t e d	u s e f u l	l i v e s	o f	3	t o	4	y e a r s ,	u s i n g	t h e	
straight line method.
Derivatives and hedging
D e r i v a t i v e	fi n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t s	s u c h	a s	i n t e r e s t	r a t e	s w a p s	a r e	o c c a s i o n a l l y	e n t e r e d	i n t o	i n	o rd e r	t o	m a n a g e	i n t e r e s t	r a t e	r i s k s	a r i s i n g	
from long-term debt. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group 
wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation 
i n c l u d e s	i d e n t i fi c a t i o n	o f	t h e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t ,	t h e	h e d g e	i t e m	o r	t r a n s a c t i o n ,	t h e	n a t u r e	o f	t h e	r i s k	b e i n g	h e d g e d	a n d	h o w	t h e	
e n t i t y	w i l l	a s s e s s	t h e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t ’ s	e ff e c t i v e n e s s	i n	o ff s e t t i n g	t h e	e x p o s u r e	t o	c h a n g e s	i n	t h e	h e d g e d	i t e m ’ s	f a i r	v a l u e	o r	c a s h	
fl o w s	a t t r i b u t a b l e	t o	t h e	h e d g e	r i s k .	S u c h	h e d g e s	a r e	e x p e c t e d	t o	b e	h i g h l y	e ff e c t i v e	i n	a c h i e v i n g	off s e t t i n g	c h a n g e s	i n	f a i r	v a l u e	o r	
c a s h	fl o w s	a n d	a r e	a s s e s s e d	o n	a n	o n g o i n g	b a s i s	t o	d e t e r m i n e	t h a t	t h e y	a c t u a l l y	h a v e	b e e n	h i g h l y	e ff e c t i v e	t h r o u g h o u t	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	
reporting periods for which they are designated.
T h e	e ff e c t i v e	p o r t i o n	o f	t h e	g a i n	o r	l o s s	o n	t h e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	d i r e c t l y	i n	e q u i t y ,	w h i l e	a n y	i n e ff e c t i v e	p o r t i o n	i s	
r e c o g n i s e d	i m m e d i a t e l y	i n	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s ,	s u c h	a s	w h e n	t h e	h e d g e d	fi n a n c i a l	i n c o m e	o r	fi n a n c i a l	e x p e n s e	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	o r	w h e n	a	
forecast sale occurs. Where such derivative transactions are executed, gains and losses on the fair value of such arrangements are 
taken either to reserves or to the Statement of Comprehensive Income dependent upon the nature of the instrument.
I f	t h e	f o r e c a s t	t r a n s a c t i o n	o r	fi r m	c o m m i t m e n t	i s	n o	l o n g e r	e x p e c t e d	t o	o c c u r ,	a m o u n t s	p r e v i o u s l y	r e c o g n i s e d	i n	e q u i t y	a r e	t r a n s f e r r e d	t o	
p r ofi t	o r	l o s s .	I f	t h e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t	e x p i r e s	o r	i s	s o l d ,	t e r m i n a t e d	o r	e x e r c i s e d	w i t h o u t	r e p l a c e m e n t	o r	r o l l o v e r ,	o r	i f	i t s	d e s i g n a t i o n	a s	
a	h e d g e	i s	r e v o k e d ,	a m o u n t s	p r e v i o u s l y	r e c o g n i s e d	i n	e q u i t y	r e m a i n	i n	e q u i t y	u n t i l	t h e	f o r e c a s t	t r a n s a c t i o n	o r	fi r m	c o m m i t m e n t	o c c u r s .
When a derivative is held as an economic hedge for a period beyond twelve months after the end of the reporting period, the 
d e r i v a t i v e	i s	c l a s s i fi e d	a s	n o n - c u r r e n t	( o r	s e p a r a t e d	i n t o	c u r r e n t	a n d	n o n - c u r r e n t	p o r t i o n s )	c o n s i s t e n t	w i t h	t h e	c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	o f	t h e	
u n d e r l y i n g	i t e m .	A	d e r i v a t i v e	i n s t r u m e n t	t h a t	i s	a	d e s i g n a t e d	a n d	e ff e c t i v e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t	i s	c l a s s i fi e d	c o n s i s t e n t	w i t h	t h e	
c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	o f	t h e	u n d e r l y i n g	h e d g e d	i t e m .	T h e	d e r i v a t e	i n s t r u m e n t	i s	s e p a r a t e d	i n t o	a	c u r r e n t	p o r t i o n	a n d	n o n - c u r r e n t	p o r t i o n	o n l y	
i f :	1 )	a	r e l i a b l e	a l l o c a t i o n	c a n	b e	m a d e ;	a n d	2 )	i t	i s	a p p l i e d	t o	a l l	d e s i g n a t e d	a n d	e ff e c t i v e	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t s .
Tax
Current Tax
The charge or credit for current tax is based on the results for the year adjusted for items that are either not subject to taxation or for 
expenditure which cannot be deducted in computing the tax charge or credit. The tax charge or credit is calculated using taxation 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred Tax
D e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	u s i n g	t h e	b a l a n c e	s h e e t	l i a b i l i t y	m e t h o d	o n	t e m p o r a r y	d i ff e r e n c e s	b e t w e e n	t h e	c a r r y i n g	a m o u n t s	o f	a s s e t s	
a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	i n	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a n d	t h e	c o r r e s p o n d i n g	t a x	b a s i s	u s e d	i n	t h e	c o m p u t a t i o n	o f	t a x a b l e	p r ofi t .	D e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	
r e c o g n i s e d	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	a l l	t a x a b l e	t e m p o r a r y	t i m i n g	d i ff e r e n c e s ,	w i t h	c e r t a i n	l i m i t e d	e x c e p t i o n s :
•		 D e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	n o t	p r o v i d e d	o n	t h e	i n i t i a l	r e c o g n i t i o n	o f	a n	a s s e t	o r	l i a b i l i t y	i n	a	t r a n s a c t i o n	t h a t	d o e s	n o t	a ff e c t	a c c o u n t i n g	p r ofi t	o r	
t a x a b l e	p r ofi t	a n d	i s	n o t	a	b u s i n e s s	c o m b i n a t i o n ;	a n d	
•		 D e f e r r e d	t a x	a s s e t s	a r e	o n l y	r e c o g n i s e d	i f	i t	i s	p r o b a b l e	t h a t	t h e r e	w i l l	b e	s u ffi c i e n t	p r ofi t s	f r o m	w h i c h	t h e	f u t u r e	r e v e r s a l	o f	t h e	
u n d e r l y i n g	t i m i n g	d i ff e r e n c e s	c a n	b e	d e d u c t e d .	I n	d e c i d i n g	w h e t h e r	f u t u r e	r e v e r s a l	i s	p r o b a b l e ,	t h e	D i r e c t o r s	r e v i e w	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	
forecasts and make an estimate of the aggregate deferred tax asset that should be recognised. This aggregate deferred tax asset is 
t h e n	a l l o c a t e d	i n t o	t h e	d i ff e r e n t	c a t e g o r i e s	o f	d e f e r r e d	t a x .
D e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	c a l c u l a t e d	a t	t h e	t a x	r a t e s	t h a t	a r e	e x p e c t e d	t o	a p p l y	i n	t h e	y e a r s	i n	w h i c h	t i m i n g	d i ff e r e n c e s	r e v e r s e ,	b a s e d	o n	t a x	
rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income 
statement, except where it applies to items credited or charged to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying value of the Group’s Investment property is assumed to be realised by sale at the end of use. The capital gains tax rate 
applied is that which would apply on a direct sale of the property recorded in the Balance Sheet regardless of whether the Group 
w o u l d	s t r u c t u r e	t h e	s a l e	v i a	t h e	d i s p o s a l	o f	t h e	s u b s i d i a r y	h o l d i n g	t h e	a s s e t ,	t o	w h i c h	a	d i ff e r e n t	t a x	r a t e	m a y	a p p l y .	T h e	d e f e r r e d	t a x	
i s	t h e n	c a l c u l a t e d	b a s e d	o n	t h e	r e s p e c t i v e	t e m p o r a r y	d i ff e r e n c e s	a n d	t a x	c o n s e q u e n c e s	a r i s i n g	f r o m	r e c o v e r y	t h r o u g h	s a l e .
1. Accounting policies: continued 108 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
(a) New standards, amendments and interpretations
N o	n e w	s t a n d a rd s ,	a m e n d m e n t s	o r	i n t e r p r e t a t i o n s ,	e ff e c t i v e	f o r	t h e	fi r s t	t i m e	f o r	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	b e g i n n i n g	o n	o r	a f t e r	1	J a n u a r y	
2016 have had a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted 
A	n u m b e r	o f	n e w	s t a n d a rd s	a n d	a m e n d m e n t s	t o	s t a n d a rd s	a n d	i n t e r p r e t a t i o n s	a r e	e ff e c t i v e	f o r	a n n u a l	p e r i o d s	b e g i n n i n g	a f t e r	
1	J a n u a r y	2 0 1 6 ,	a n d	h a v e	n o t	b e e n	a p p l i e d	i n	p r e p a r i n g	t h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .	N o n e	o f	t h e s e	i s	e x p e c t e d	t o	h a v e	a	s i g n i fi c a n t	
e ff e c t	o n	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	o f	t h e	G r o u p ,	e x c e p t	t h e	f o l l o w i n g ,	s e t	o u t	b e l o w :
• 	 I F R S	9 ,	‘ F i n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t s ’ ,	a d d r e s s e s	t h e	c l a s s i fi c a t i o n ,	m e a s u r e m e n t	a n d	r e c o g n i t i o n	o f	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a n d	fi n a n c i a l	
l i a b i l i t i e s .	I t	r e p l a c e s	t h e	g u i d a n c e	i n	I A S	3 9	t h a t	r e l a t e s	t o	t h e	c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	a n d	m e a s u r e m e n t	o f	fi n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t s .	I F R S	9	
r e t a i n s	b u t	s i m p l i fi e s	t h e	m i x e d	m e a s u r e m e n t	m o d e l	a n d	e s t a b l i s h e s	t h r e e	p r i m a r y	m e a s u r e m e n t	c a t e g o r i e s	f o r	fi n a n c i a l	
assets: amortised cost, fair value through the Statement of Comprehensive Income (SOCI) and fair value through the income 
s t a t e m e n t .	T h e	b a s i s	o f	c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	d e p e n d s	o n	t h e	e n t i t y ’ s	b u s i n e s s	m o d e l	a n d	t h e	c o n t r a c t u a l	c a s h	fl o w	c h a r a c t e r i s t i c s	o f	t h e	
fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t .	I n v e s t m e n t s	i n	e q u i t y	i n s t r u m e n t s	a r e	r e q u i r e d	t o	b e	m e a s u r e d	a t	f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s	w i t h	t h e	
irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in SOCI. There is now a new expected credit losses model that 
r e p l a c e s	t h e	i n c u r r e d	l o s s	i m p a i r m e n t	m o d e l	u s e d	i n	I A S	3 9 .	F o r	fi n a n c i a l	l i a b i l i t i e s	t h e r e	w e r e	n o	c h a n g e s	t o	c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	a n d	
measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at 
f a i r	v a l u e	t h r o u g h	p r ofi t	o r	l o s s .	I F R S	9	r e l a x e s	t h e	r e q u i r e m e n t s	f o r	h e d g e	e ff e c t i v e n e s s	b y	r e p l a c i n g	t h e	b r i g h t	l i n e	h e d g e	
e ff e c t i v e n e s s	t e s t s .	I t	r e q u i r e s	a n	e c o n o m i c	r e l a t i o n s h i p	b e t w e e n	t h e	h e d g e d	i t e m	a n d	h e d g i n g	i n s t r u m e n t	a n d	f o r	t h e	‘ h e d g e d	
ratio’ to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is 
s t i l l	r e q u i r e d	b u t	i s	d i ff e r e n t	f r o m	t h a t	c u r r e n t l y	p r e p a r e d	u n d e r	I A S	3 9 .	T h e	s t a n d a rd	i s	e ff e c t i v e	f o r	a c c o u n t i n g	p e r i o d s	b e g i n n i n g	
on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The full impact of IFRS 9 has not yet been assessed, however, 
m a n a g e m e n t	d o	n o t	b e l i e v e	i t	w i l l	h a v e	a	s i g n i fi c a n t	i m p a c t .
•  IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
i n f o r m a t i o n	t o	u s e r s	o f	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a b o u t	t h e	n a t u r e ,	a m o u n t ,	t i m i n g	a n d	u n c e r t a i n t y	o f	r e v e n u e	a n d	c a s h	fl o w s	a r i s i n g	
from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus 
h a s	t h e	a b i l i t y	t o	d i r e c t	t h e	u s e	a n d	o b t a i n	t h e	b e n e fi t s	f r o m	t h e	g o o d	o r	s e r v i c e .	T h e	s t a n d a rd	r e p l a c e s	I A S	1 8	‘ R e v e n u e ’	a n d	
I A S	1 1	‘ C o n s t r u c t i o n	c o n t r a c t s ’	a n d	r e l a t e d	i n t e r p r e t a t i o n s .	T h e	s t a n d a rd	i s	e ff e c t i v e	f o r	a n n u a l	p e r i o d s	b e g i n n i n g	o n	o r	a f t e r	
1 January 2018 and earlier application is permitted. Implementation of IFRS 15 requires a thorough review of existing contractual 
arrangements. At present, the Directors anticipate there may be some changes in the recognition of royalty income, and income 
related to PPAs leading to earlier recognition of some income although the amounts involved are relatively immaterial. 
• 	 I F R S	1 6 ,	‘ L e a s e s ’	a d d r e s s e s	t h e	d e fi n i t i o n	o f	a	l e a s e ,	r e c o g n i t i o n	a n d	m e a s u r e m e n t	o f	l e a s e s	a n d	e s t a b l i s h e s	p r i n c i p l e s	f o r	
r e p o r t i n g	u s e f u l	i n f o r m a t i o n	t o	u s e r s	o f	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	a b o u t	t h e	l e a s i n g	a c t i v i t i e s	o f	b o t h	l e s s e e s	a n d	l e s s o r s .	A	k ey	c h a n g e	
arising from IFRS 16 is that most operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for lessees. The standard replaces 
IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and related interpretations. The standa rd	i s	e ff e c t i v e	f o r	a n n u a l	p e r i o d s	b e g i n n i n g	o n	o r	a f t e r	1	J a n u a r y	2 0 1 9	a n d	
earlier application is permitted, and the entity adopting IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ at the same time. The 
f u l l	i m p a c t	o f	I F R S	1 6	h a s	n o t	y e t	b e e n	a s s e s s e d ,	h o w e v e r ,	m a n a g e m e n t	d o	n o t	b e l i e v e	i t	w i l l	h a v e	a	s i g n i fi c a n t	i m p a c t	g i v e n	t h e	
minimal operating lease expenditure incurred in the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
T h e	p r e p a r a t i o n	o f	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	r e q u i r e s	m a n a g e m e n t	t o	m a k e	j u d g e m e n t s ,	e s t i m a t e s	a n d	a s s u m p t i o n s	t h a t	a ff e c t	t h e	
a p p l i c a t i o n	o f	a c c o u n t i n g	p o l i c i e s	a n d	t h e	r e p o r t e d	a m o u n t s	o f	a s s e t s	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s ,	i n c o m e	a n d	e x p e n s e .	A c t u a l	r e s u l t s	m a y	d i ff e r	
from these estimates.
I n	p r e p a r i n g	t h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	t h e	s i g n i fi c a n t	j u d g e m e n t s	m a d e	b y	m a n a g e m e n t	i n	a p p l y i n g	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	a c c o u n t i n g	p o l i c i e s	
and the key sources of estimation uncertainty are as follows:
Estimation of fair value of Investment Property
T h e	f a i r	v a l u e	o f	i n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t y	r e fl e c t s ,	a m o n g s t	o t h e r	t h i n g s ,	r e n t a l	i n c o m e	f r o m	o u r	c u r r e n t	l e a s e s ,	a s s u m p t i o n s	a b o u t	r e n t a l	
income from future leases and the possible outcome of planning applications, in the light of current market conditions. The valuation 
has been arrived at primarily after consideration of market evidence for similar property, although in the case of those properties 
where fair value is based on their ultimate redevelopment potential, development appraisals have been undertaken to estimate the 
residual value of the landholding after due regard to the cost of, and revenue from the development of the property.
The Group has also estimated the extent to which existing mining tenants on investment property owned by the Group would perform 
their obligations to remediate land at the conclusion of mining activity, and therefore the impact of any restoration obligations which 
may revert to the Group.
1. Accounting policies: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 109
T h e	v a l u e s	r e p o r t e d	a r e	b a s e d	o n	s i g n i fi c a n t	a s s u m p t i o n s	a n d	a	c h a n g e	i n	f a i r	v a l u e s	c o u l d	h a v e	a	m a t e r i a l	i m p a c t	o n	t h e	G r o u p ` s	
results. This is due to the sensitivity of fair value to the assumptions made as regards to variances in development costs compared  
t o	M a n a g e m e n t ` s	o w n	e s t i m a t e s .	
Investment properties are disclosed in Note 17.
Revenue
Overdue rents and royalties from the mining businesses have been included in revenue for 2016. Prior to this management concluded 
that there was a less than remote possibility of recoverability of this income and therefore was not recognised. A clearer outcome of 
the winding up of the mining businesses has given greater visibility of the recoverability of this revenue.
Taxation
The recognition of deferred tax assets has been reviewed and re-assessed during the year. This has resulted in the recognition of a 
deferred tax asset of £8.4m based upon the certainty of recoverability.
2. Restructuring and discontinued operations
UK Coal plc underwent a solvent restructuring in December 2012 and split into a mining division, (of which the parent Company was  
UK Coal Mine Holdings Limited (UKCMHL)) and a property division (HEPGL). 
As part of this restructure the Company retained a 24.9% shareholding in HEPGL with the remaining 75.1% being transferred to pension 
trustees to meet UK Coal plc’s debts to the pension scheme. Full disclosure of this restructuring is given in the 2014 Annual Report.
Blenkinsopp Pension Scheme
The Company remains liable for the Blenkinsopp Section of the Industry-Wide Mineworkers’ Pension Scheme. Harworth Estates 
Mines Property Limited, a subsidiary of HEPGL, has provided a guarantee to the Company, to meet future obligations of the pension 
scheme should the Company cease to make payment.
Harworth Insurance Company Limited (HICL)
On 7 December 2012 the Company granted a put and call option to UKCMHL to acquire the entire issued share capital of HICL,  
and UKCMHL granted the Company a put option to require UKCMHL to acquire HICL. The consideration for the call option was 
£4,650,000. Exercise of the call option was conditional on obtaining Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) consent or the parties agreeing that such consent is no longer legally required. Before consent from the FCA and  
PRA could be obtained the underlying insurance business had to be sold. This sale process took longer than expected and was  
not completed until July 2014 when the insurance business of HICL was sold to Royal Sun Alliance. Following this sale only residual 
c a s h	a n d	a	s i n g l e	p r o p e r t y	r e m a i n e d .	T h e	c a l l	o p t i o n	w a s	e x e r c i s e d	o n	8	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 5 ,	a n d	t h e	G r o u p	r e c e i v e d	a	fi n a l	s e t t l e m e n t	
of £0.5m during 2016 which has been recognised in exceptional items (see Note 6).
T he 	 combine d 	 c ash 	 flo w s 	 o f 	 t he 	 HICL 	 discon t inue d 	 ope ra t ions 	 (including 	 as se t s 	 clas sifie d 	 as 	 he ld 	 f or 	 sale ) 	 no t e d 	 abo v e 	 w e r e 	 as 	 f ollo w s :
Group
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
Operating	cash	flows – 228
Investing	cash	flows – (1,068)  Financing	cash	flows	 – –
   
Total cash flows – (840)     
3. Business combinations
Acquisition of HEPGL
On 24 March 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 75.1% of the issued share capital of HEPGL, a Company incorporated in the 
U n i t e d	K i n g d o m	w h i c h	h e a d e d	u p	a	G r o u p	e n g a g e d	i n	t h e	r e g e n e r a t i o n	o f	f o r m e r	c o a l fi e l d	s i t e s	a n d	o t h e r	b r o w n fi e l d	l a n d	i n t o	
employment areas, new residential development and low carbon energy projects. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for HEPGL, the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and the 
non-controlling interest held at the acquisition date.
Consideration at 24 March 2015
 £’000
  
Cash 97,026
Equity instruments (731m Ordinary Shares)
 (1)
52,974
  
Total consideration transferred 150,000
Fair value of associate interest 57,746
  
Total consideration 207,746
  
(1)
 This was before the 1 for 10 share consolidation.
1. Accounting policies: continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements: continued 110 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
R e c o g n i s e d	a m o u n t s	o f	i d e n t i fi a b l e	a s s e t s	a c q u i r e d	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	a s s u m e d :
Attributed  
fair value  
 £’000
  
Investment property (Note 17) 299,355
Investments and other non-current receivables 1,883
Cash and cash equivalents 9,203
Inventory 311
Trade and other current receivables 23,054
Financial asset 1,200
Borrowings (60,407)  
Deferred tax liability (Note 11) (7,871)  
Trade and other payables (14,738)  
  
Fair value of acquired interest in net assets of subsidiary 251,990
Gain on bargain purchase (44,244)  
  
Total consideration 207,746
  
The purchase consideration disclosed above comprised cash and cash equivalents of £150.0m paid to acquire the previous majority 
S h a r e h o l d e r	w h i c h	w a s	 s a t i s fi e d	b y	 t h e	 p a y m e n t	 o f	 £ 9 7 . 0 m	 a n d	t h e	 a l l o t m e n t	a n d	 i s s u e	 o f	 7 3 0 , 6 7 4 , 4 6 5	 O rd i n a r y	S h a r e s	o f	£ 0 . 0 1	 e a c h	
in the capital of Harworth Group plc. The share premium arising from the shares issued to the PPF is held within the merger reserve 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Acquisition related costs of £2.4m were recognised in the consolidated income statement as an exceptional item. The fair value of the 
731m Ordinary Shares issued as part of the consideration paid for HEPGL (£53.0m) was based upon the price the shares were 
placed at 7.25 pence. Issuance costs of £2.95m were netted against the deemed proceeds.
During the period ended 31 December 2015 the revenue included in the consolidated income statement since 24 March 2015 
c o n t r i b u t e d	b y	H EP G L	w a s	£ 1 2 . 9 m	a n d	p r ofi t	b e f o r e	t a x	w a s	£ 4 0 . 7 m .	H a d	H EP G L	b e e n	c o n s o l i d a t e d	f r o m	1	J a n u a r y	2 0 1 5 ,	t h e	
c o n s o l i d a t e d	i n c o m e	s t a t e m e n t	f o r	t h e	y e a r	t o	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 5	w o u l d	h a v e	s h o w n	p r o - f o r m a	r e v e n u e	o f	£ 1 6 . 7 m	a n d	p r ofi t	b e f o r e	
tax of £39.2m.
T h e	n e t	c a s h	o u t fl o w	a s s o c i a t e d	w i t h	t h e	a c q u i s i t i o n	w a s	a s	f o l l o w s :
 £’000
  
Fair value of acquired interest in net assets of subsidiary 251,990
  
Fair value of associate interest already held (57,746)  
Gain on bargain purchase (44,244)  
  
Total purchase consideration 150,000
  
Less: cash and cash equivalents of subsidiary acquired (9,203)  
Less: equity instruments issued (52,974)  
  
Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents on acquisition 87,823
  
3. Business combinations: continued
Acquisition of HEPGL: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 111
4. Segment information
31 December 2016
Group
Capital
Growth
 £’000
Income
Generation
 £’000
Unallocated
costs
 £’000
Total 
 £’000
     
Revenue 16,307 17,386 – 33,693
     
Gr oss	(loss)/pr ofit	less	administrative	expenses (1,425)  11,032 (7,276)  2,331
Exceptional items – (682)  689 7
Increase in fair value of investment properties 23,433 10,280 – 33,713
Decr ease	in	fair	value	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale – (224)  – (224)  
Pr ofit	on	sale	of	investment	pr operties 7,473 1,693 – 9,166
Loss	on	sale	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale – (375)  – (375)  
Other gains 747 – – 747
Other operating expenses – (117)  (87)  (204)  
     
Operating profit/(loss) 30,228 21,607 (6,674)  45,161
     
Finance income 247
Finance costs (2,588)  
Shar e	of	pr ofit	of	joint	ventur e 647
     
Profit before tax 43,467
     
Other information
Investment property additions:
 Direct acquisitions – 22,524 – 22,524
 Subsequent expenditure 14,707 7,947 – 22,654
Segmental assets
Capital
Growth
 £’000
Income
Generation
 £’000
Unallocated
 £’000
Total 
 £’000
     
Investment properties 232,886 146,304 – 379,190
Property, plant and equipment – – 789 789
Assets	classified	as	held	for	sale 6,152 2,198 – 8,350
Inventories 454 279 – 733
Other receivables 1,397 – – 1,397
Investments in joint ventures 868 9,681 – 10,549
     
241,757 158,462 789 401,008
     
Unallocated assets:
 Trade and other receivables 24,444 24,444
 Cash and cash equivalents 13,007 13,007
     
Total assets 241,757 158,462 38,240 438,459
     
Financial liabilities are not allocated to the reporting segments as they are managed and measured on a Group basis. 112 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
31 December 2015
Group
Capital
Growth
 £’000
Income
Generation
 £’000
Unallocated
costs
 £’000
Total 
 £’000
     
Revenue 1,319 11,533 320* 13,172
     
Gr oss	(loss)/pr ofit	less	administrative	expenses (1,471)  6,579 (3,680)  1,428
Transaction costs – – (2,394)   (2,394)  
Impairment of investment (465)  – – (465)  
Increase in fair value of investment properties 14,503 9,557 – 24,060
Pr ofit	on	sale	of	investment	pr operties 7,111 1,069 – 8,180
Other gains – 3,208 – 3,208
Other operating income – 47 129 176
     
Operating profit/(loss) 19,678 20,460 (5,945)  34,193
     
Finance income 62
Finance costs (1,803)  
Pr ofit	of	associates 856
Gain on bargain purchase 44,244
     
Profit before tax 77,552
     
* Unallocated revenues relate to recharges to HEPGL prior to its acquisition by the Group.
Other information
Investment property additions:
 Direct acquisitions 14,578 8,255 – 22,833
 Subsequent expenditure 17,603 6,360 – 23,963
Segmental assets
Capital
Growth
 £’000
Income
Generation
 £’000
Unallocated
 £’000
Total 
 £’000
     
Investment properties 210,004 124,613 – 334,617
Assets	classified	as	held	for	sale 30 9,098 – 9,128
Inventories – 1,092 – 1,092
Other receivables 650 – – 650
Investments in joint ventures 768 – – 768
     
211,452 134,803 – 346,255
     
Unallocated assets:
 Trade and other receivables – – 19,906 19,906
 Cash and cash equivalents – – 27,564 27,564
     
Total assets 211,452 134,803 47,470 393,725
     
Financial liabilities are not allocated to the reporting segments as they are managed and measured on a Group basis.
4. Segment informed: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 113
5. Operating profit 
Note
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
    
Operating	pr ofit	befor e	tax	is	stated	after	charging:
Staff	costs 8 5,806 3,520
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 2 –
    
6. Exceptional items
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Settlement relating to Harworth Insurance Company Limited 500 –
Settlement relating to Ocanti Opco Limited 189 –
Under	r ecovery	r elating	to	the	cessation	of	coal	fine	activities	at	Rugeley	and	coal	fines	stock	pr ovsion (682)  –
Write down of investment in joint venture – (465)  Costs associated with acquisition of a subsidiary – (2,394)     
Total exceptional items 7 (2,859)     
Exceptional items for 2016 comprise four separate items, all of which largely relate to the Group’s legacy activities. £0.5m relates to a 
settlement from the administrator of Harworth Insurance Company Limited and £0.2m from the administrator of Ocanti Opco Limited 
w h i c h	r e l a t e d	t o	t h e	r e i m b u r s e m e n t	o f	m a n a g e m e n t	e x p e n s e s	i n c u r r e d	b y	C o a l fi e l d	R e s o u r c e s	p l c	( t h e	f o r m e r	n a m e	o f	H a r w o r t h	
G r o u p	p l c ) .	I n	r e s p e c t	o f	c o a l	fi n e s	a c t i v i t y ,	a n	e x c e p t i o n a l	c h a r g e	h a s	b e e n	t a k e n	r e l a t i n g	t o	t h e	c e s s a t i o n	o f	a c t i v i t y	a t	R u g e l e y	o f	
£ 0 . 3 m	a n d	a	p r o v i s i o n	o f	£ 0 . 3 m	h a s	b e e n	t a k e n	a g a i n s t	t h e	v a l u e	o f	c o a l	fi n e s	s t o c k s	r e fl e c t i n g	r e d u c e d	d e m a n d .
The exceptional items in 2015 related to the transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of HEPGL of £2.4m and the write down of a 
joint venture held by the Group of £0.5m.
7. Other operating (expense)/income
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Administrative expenses (10,457)  (5,731)  Other operating (expense)/income (204)   176 
Other gains 747 3,208
Pr ofit	on	sale	of	investment	pr operties 9,166 8,180
Loss	on	sale	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale (375)  –
Increase in fair value of investment properties 33,713 24,060
Decr ease	in	fair	value	of	assets	classified	as	held	for	sale (224)  –
   
Other operating income 32,366 29,893
   
Other gains in 2015 represents a gain on the sale of an option. Other operating (expense)/income in 2016 and 2015 represents 
expenses relating to the Blenkinsopp Pension Scheme (see Note 27) and other smaller items. 
8. Employee information
The monthly average number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was:
Group Company
  
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
Number
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
Number
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
Number
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
Number
     
Administration 51 45 4 4 
     
Total 51 45 4 4 
     
Remuneration details of these persons was as follows:
Group Company
   
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
    
Wages and salaries 5,102 2,985 1,264 822
Social security costs 448 333 139 84
Other pension costs 256 202 43 11
     
5,806 3,520 1,446 917
      114 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Key management remuneration
Remuneration details for key management of the Group (excluding Directors’ remuneration) is detailed below:
Group
 
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Wages and salaries 717 446
Social security costs 95 57
Other pension costs 51 42 
   
863 545 
   
Detailed information relating to Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report and forms part of these 
fin a nci a l 	s t at e m e nts.
9. Finance income and costs 
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Interest expense
– Bank interest (1,559)   (977)   – Facility fees (545)   (485)   – Other interest (484)   (341)      
Finance costs (2,588)  (1,803)     
Interest received 247 62
   
Net finance costs (2,341)   (1,741)      
No interest has been capitalised.
10. Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Group obtained the following services from its auditors, PwC, at costs as detailed below:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company auditors and its associates for the audit of the Company and the  
consolidated	financial	statements 40 65
Fees payable to the Company auditors and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 80 85 
– Audit related assurance services 50 15 
– The audit of the Group’s joint ventures 10 –
– Tax advisory services 84 98 
– Tax compliance services 38 33 
– Fees in relation to transaction – 529 
   
302 825 
   
From time to time, the Group employs PwC on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and 
experience with the Group are important. They are awarded assignments on a competitive basis. The Audit Committee reviews non-
audit assignments quarterly and pre-approves all non-audit services above a predetermined trivial cost threshold.
8. Employee information: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 115
11. Tax charge
Analysis of tax charge in the year
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Deferred tax
Current year 2,510 3,508
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1,652 –
Effect	of	changes	in	tax	rates (2,042)  –
Re-assessment of recognition of recoverability of deferred tax assets 1,446 –
   
Tax charge 3,566 3,508
   
The adjustments in respect of prior periods principally relate to a revision made to the calculation of tax relating to property disposals 
s u b s e q u e n t	t o	t h e	s i g n i n g	o f	t h e	2 0 1 5	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .	
T h e	e ff e c t	o f	c h a n g e s	i n	t a x	r a t e s	a r i s e s	fi r s t l y	d u e	t o	t h e	d e c r e a s e	i n	t h e	e n a c t e d	c o r p o r a t i o n	t a x	r a t e	i n	f u t u r e	p e r i o d s	w h i c h	i m p a c t s	
t h e	r a t e	a t	w h i c h	d e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	a n d	s e c o n d l y	d u e	t o	t h e	d i ff e r e n c e	b e t w e e n	t h e	c u r r e n t	t a x	a n d	d e f e r r e d	t a x	r a t e	f o r	
the period.
Other comprehensive income items
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Deferred tax - current year 14 –
Deferred tax - prior year 80 –
   
Total 94 –
   
T h e	t a x	f o r	t h e	y e a r	i s	d i ff e r e n t	t o	t h e	s t a n d a rd	r a t e	o f	c o r p o r a t i o n	t a x	i n	t h e	U K	o f	2 0 . 0 %	( 2 0 1 5 :	2 0 . 2 5 % ) .	T h e	d i ff e r e n c e s	a r e	
explained below:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Pr ofit	befor e	tax 43,467 77,552
   
Pr ofit	befor e	tax	multiplied	by	rate	of	corporation	tax	in	the	UK	of	20.0%	(2015:	20.25%) 8,693 15,704
Effects	of:
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1,652 –
Shar e	of	associated	Company	pr ofit	not	taxable – (173)  Non-taxable income (129)  (7,084)  Expenses not deducted for tax purposes 390 436 
Gain on bargain purchase – (8,959)  Revaluation (gains)/losses (4,683)  4,176
Changes in tax rates (2,042)  (651)  Capital gains tax transferred out (1,764)  –
Re-assessment of recognition of recoverability of deferred tax assets 1,446 –
Deferred tax not recognised 3 59
   
Total tax charge 3,566 3,508 
   
Deferred tax
The analysis of deferred tax liabilities is as follows:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
No more than twelve months after the reporting year – –
More than twelve months after the reporting year 14,851 11,379
   
14,851 11,379
    116 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
At 1 January 11,379 – 
Acquisition of subsidiary – 7,871
Income statement charge for the year 1,914 3,508
Adjustment in respect of prior years 1,572 –
Statement of comprehensive expense for the year (14)  –
   
At 31 December 14,851 11,379 
   
D e f e r r e d	t a x	i s	c a l c u l a t e d	i n	f u l l	o n	t e m p o r a r y	d i ff e r e n c e s	u n d e r	t h e	l i a b i l i t y	m e t h o d	u s i n g	a	t a x	r a t e	o f	1 7 %	( 2 0 1 5 :	1 8 % ) .	C h a n g e s	t o	
the rate of UK corporation tax were substantively enacted in 2015 to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 
2020. The budget of 16 March 2016 then proposed to reduce further the rate to 17% from 1 April 2020. This additional charge was 
substantively enacted on 6 September 2016. The deferred tax liabilities are shown at 17% (2015: 18%) being the rate expected to 
apply to the reversal of the liability. 
The deferred tax charge of £3.6m (2015: £3.5m) for the year ended 31 December 2016 is in respect of property revaluation gains 
where tax is expected to arise when properties are sold.
D e f e r r e d	t a x	a s s e t s	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	a r e	off s e t	w h e n	t h e r e	i s	a	l e g a l l y	e n f o r c e d	r i g h t	t o	off s e t	c u r r e n t	t a x	a s s e t s	a g a i n s t	c u r r e n t	t a x	
l i a b i l i t i e s	a n d	w h e n	t h e	d e fe r r e d	t a x e s	r e l a t e	t o	t h e	s a m e	fi s c a l	a u t h o r i t y .	
Deferred tax assets of £19.7m at 31 December 2016 have not been recognised owing to the uncertainty as to their recoverability, 
deferred tax assets of £27.9m were not recognised at 31 December 2015:
As at 
31 December 
2016
Total 
amount 
recognised
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016
Total 
potential 
asset
 £’000 
As at 
31 December 
2015
Total 
amount 
recognised
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015
Total 
potential 
asset
 £’000 
      
Tax losses 8,427  28,149  – 27,850 
      
Net deferred tax asset 8,427  28,149  –  27,850 
      
The Company has recognised a deferred tax asset in 2016 of £3,055,000 (2015: £nil), but has a potential deferred tax asset of £nil 
(2015: £3,380,000) in respect of unused tax losses.
12. Profit/(loss) for the financial year for the parent entity
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement and statement of comprehensive income 
h a v e	n o t	b e e n	i n c l u d e d	s e p a r a t e l y	i n	t h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .	T h e	p r ofi t	f o r	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	w a s	£ 1 , 3 4 8 , 0 0 0	( 2 0 1 5 :	l o s s	
£ 1 , 6 6 1 , 0 0 0 )	a n d	t h e	t o t a l	c o m p r e h e n s i v e	i n c o m e	f o r	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	w a s	£ 1 , 1 0 7 , 0 0 0	( 2 0 1 5 :	e x p e n d i t u r e	£ 8 0 8 , 0 0 0 ) .
13. Dividends
T h e	B o a rd	r e c o m m e n d e d	a n d	S h a r e h o l d e r s	a p p r o v e d	a	f u l l	y e a r	d i v i d e n d	f o r	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	2 0 1 5	o f	£ 1 . 5 m	(0 . 5 1 p	p e r	s h a r e )	w h i c h	
was paid on 9 September 2016 and an interim dividend of £0.66m (0.23p per share) for the six months ended 30 June 2016 which 
w a s	p a i d	o n	1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6 .	T h e	C o m p a n y	i s	p r o p o s i n g	t o	r e c o m m e n d	a	fi n a l	d i v i d e n d	o f	0 . 5 2 3	p e n c e	p e r	s h a r e	( £ 1 . 5 3 m	i n	t o t a l )	
for the year ended 31 December 2016 at the Annual General Meeting in May.
14. Earnings per share
E a r n i n g s	p e r	s h a r e	h a s	b e e n	c a l c u l a t e d	b y	d i v i d i n g	t h e	p r o fi t	a t t r i b u t a b l e	t o	o rd i n a r y	S h a r e h o l d e r s	b y	t h e	w e i g h t e d	a v e r a g e	n u m b e r	o f	
shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year. The weighted average number of shares for 31 December 2015 includes the 
a d j u s t m e n t s	n e c e s s a r y	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	n e w	s h a r e s	i s s u e d	o n	2 4	M a r c h	2 0 1 5	a n d	f o r	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6	t h e	s h a r e	c o n s o l i d a t i o n	w h i c h	
took place on 3 May 2016 (see Note 28).
11. Tax charge: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 117
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Pr ofit	fr om	continuing	operations	attributable	to	owners	of	the	par ent 39,901 74,044
   
Profit for the year 39,901 74,044 
   
Weighted average number of shares used for basic and diluted earnings per share calculation 1,133,144,333 2,395,763,516
   
Basic and diluted profit per share (pence) 3.5 3.1
   
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 13.7 12.2
   
A d j u s t e d	b a s i c	a n d	d i l u t e d	e a r n i n g s	p e r	s h a r e	f o r	t h e	y e a r	e n d e d	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 5	w e r e	1 . 1	p e n c e ,	b e i n g	b a s e d	o n	p r ofi t	b e f o r e	t a x	
adjusted for the exceptional gain on bargain purchase of £44.2m, acquisition fees of £2.4m and write down of investments of £0.5m.
U n d e r l y i n g	e a r n i n g s	p e r	s h a r e	h a v e	b e e n	c a l c u l a t e d	u s i n g	u n d e r l y i n g	p r ofi t	f r o m	c o n t i n u i n g	o p e r a t i o n s	£ 3 9 . 9 m	( 2 0 1 5 :	£ 3 5 . 7 m	
underlying) and shares in issue at the end of 2016.
15. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land and 
Buildings
 £’000
Office  
equipment
 £’000
Total  
 £’000
    
Fair value
At 1 January 2016 – – –
Additions at cost – 25 25
Transfer from investment properties (Note 17) 783 – 783
Decrease in fair value (17)  – (17)      
At 31 December 2016 766 25 791
    
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2016 – – –
Charge for year – 2 2
    
At 31 December 2016 – 2 2
    
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 – – –
    
At 31 December 2016 766 23 789
    
At 31 December 2016, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to £nil (2015: £nil).
Information about the valuation of land and buildings is provided in Note 17.
16. Other receivables
T h e	b e n e fi t	o f	o v e r a g e s	i s	r e c o r d e d	a s	a	n o n - c u r r e n t	r e c e i v a b l e	a s	f o l l o w s :
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
At 1 January 650 –
Acquired – 650 
Fair value gains 747 –
   
At 31 December 1,397 650 
   
14. Earnings per share: continued 118 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
17. Investment properties
I n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t y	a t	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6	a n d	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 5	h a s	b e e n	m e a s u r e d	a t	f a i r	v a l u e .	T h e	G r o u p	h o l d s	fi v e	c a t e g o r i e s	
of investment property being agricultural land, natural resources, business parks, major developments and strategic land in the UK, 
which sit within the operating segments of Capital Growth and Income Generation.
Income Generation Capital Growth
  
Agricultural 
land 
 £’000
Natural 
resources 
 £’000
Business 
parks 
 £’000
Major 
developments 
 £’000
Strategic 
land 
 £’000
Total
 £’000
         
At 1 January 2015 – – – – – –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 22,070 18,574 72,724 139,842 46,145 299,355
Direct acquisitions – 978 7,277 1,366 13,212 22,833
Subsequent expenditure 604 312 5,444 15,562 2,041 23,963
Increase/(decrease) in fair value 2,477 1,375 5,705 15,075 (572)  24,060
Transfer to assets held for sale (6,013)  (3,085)  – – (30)  (9,128)  Disposals (2,375)  (1,200)  (254)  (14,256)  (8,381)  (26,466)           
At 31 December 2015 and 1 January 2016 16,763 16,954 90,896 157,589 52,415 334,617
         
Transfers 4,617 5,682 (25,424)  64,763 (49,638)  –
Direct acquisitions 1,390 – 21,134 – – 22,524
Subsequent expenditure 286 1,663 5,998 11,223 3,484 22,654
(Decrease)/increase in fair value (894)  5,203 5,971 12,103 11,330 33,713
Transfer to assets held for sale (1,680)  – (477)  (6,153)  – (8,310)  Transfer to property, plant and equipment – – (783)  – – (783)  Disposals (376)  (13)  (606)  (23,875)  (355)  (25,225)           
At 31 December 2016 20,106 29,489 96,709 215,650 17,236 379,190
         
Valuation process
The properties were valued in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Valuation – Professional Standards 
( t h e	“ R e d	B o o k ” ) ,	b y	B N P	P a r i b a s	R e a l	E s t a t e s	a n d	S a v i l l s .	B o t h	a r e	i n d e p e n d e n t	fi r m s	a c t i n g	i n	c a p a c i t y	o f	e x t e r n a l	v a l u e r s	w i t h	
r e l e v a n t	e x p e r i e n c e	o f	v a l u a t i o n s	o f	t h i s	n a t u r e .	T h e	v a l u a t i o n s	a r e	o n	t h e	b a s i s	o f	M a r k e t	V a l u e	a s	d e fi n e d	w i t h	t h e	R e d	B o o k ,	w h i c h	
RICS considers meets the criteria for assessing Fair Value under International Reporting Standards. The valuations are based on what 
is determined to be the highest and best use. When considering the highest and best use a valuer will consider, on a property by 
p r o p e r t y	b a s i s ,	i t s	a c t u a l	a n d	p o t e n t i a l	u s e s	w h i c h	a r e	p h y s i c a l l y ,	l e g a l l y	a n d	fi n a n c i a l l y	v i a b l e .	W h e r e	t h e	h i g h e s t	a n d	b e s t	u s e	d i ff e r s	
from the existing use, the valuer will consider the cost and the likelihood of achieving and implementing this change in arriving at its 
v a l u a t i o n .	M o s t	o f	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	p r o p e r t i e s	h a v e	b e e n	v a l u e d	o n	t h e	b a s i s	o f	t h e i r	d e v e l o p m e n t	p o t e n t i a l	w h i c h	d i ff e r s	f r o m	t h e i r	e x i s t i n g	
use.
A t	e a c h	fi n a n c i a l	y e a r	e n d ,	m a n a g e m e n t :
• v e r i fi e s	a l l	m a j o r	i n p u t s	t o	t h e	i n d e p e n d e n t	v a l u a t i o n	r e p o r t ;
• assesses property valuation movements when compared to the prior year valuation report; and
• holds discussions with the independent valuer.
T h e	d i ff e r e n t	v a l u a t i o n	l e v e l s	a r e	d e fi n e d	a s :	
Level 1: valuation based on quoted market prices traded in active markets. 
Level 2: valuation based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that maximise the use of observable data either 
directly or from market prices or indirectly derived from market prices. 
Level 3: where one or more inputs to valuation are not based on observable market data. 
The Directors determine the applicable hierarchy that each investment property falls into by assessing the level of unobservable inputs 
u s e d	i n	t h e	v a l u a t i o n	t e c h n i q u e .	A s	a	r e s u l t	o f	t h e	s p e c i fi c	n a t u r e	o f	e a c h	i n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t y ,	v a l u a t i o n	i n p u t s	a r e	n o t	b a s e d	o n	
directly observable market data and therefore all investment properties were determined to fall into Level 3.
The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstance 
that caused the transfer. There were no transfers between hierarchy levels in the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: none). STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 119
Valuation techniques underlying management’s estimation of fair value are as follows:
Agricultural land
Most of the agricultural land is valued using the market comparison basis, with an adjustment made for the length of remaining term 
on the tenancy and the estimated cost to bring the land to its highest and best use. Where the asset is subject to a secure letting,  
this is valued on a yield basis, based upon sales of similar types of investment.
Natural resources
N a t u r a l	r e s o u r c e	s i t e s	i n	t h e	p o r t f o l i o	a r e	v a l u e d	b a s e d	o n	a	d i s c o u n t e d	c a s h	fl o w	f o r	t h e	o p e r a t i n g	l i f e	o f	t h e	a s s e t .
Business parks
The business parks are valued on the basis of market comparison with direct reference to observable market evidence including 
rental values, yields and capital values and adjusted where required for the estimated cost to bring the property to its highest and 
b e s t	u s e .	T h e	e v i d e n c e	i s	a d j u s t e d	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	q u a l i t y	o f	t h e	p r o p e r t y	a s s e t s ,	t h e	q u a l i t y	o f	t h e	c o v e n a n t	p r o fi l e	o f	t h e	t e n a n t s	a n d	
t h e	r e l i a b i l i t y / v o l a t i l i t y	o f	c a s h	fl o w s .
Major developments
M a j o r	d e v e l o p m e n t	s i t e s	a r e	g e n e r a l l y	v a l u e d	u s i n g	r e s i d u a l	d e v e l o p m e n t	a p p r a i s a l s ,	a	f o r m	o f	d i s c o u n t e d	c a s h	fl o w	w h i c h	e s t i m a t e s	
t h e	c u r r e n t	s i t e	v a l u e	f r o m	f u t u r e	c a s h	fl o w s	m e a s u r e d	b y	o b s e r v a b l e	c u r r e n t	l a n d	a n d / o r	c o m p l e t e d	b u i l t	d e v e l o p m e n t	v a l u e s ,	
observable or estimated development costs, and observable or estimated development returns.
Where possible development sites are valued by direct comparison to observable market evidence with appropriate adjustment  
for the quality and location of the property asset, although this is generally only a reliable method of measurement for the smaller 
development sites.
Strategic land
S t r a t e g i c	l a n d	i s	v a l u e d	o n	t h e	b a s i s	o f	d i s c o u n t e d	c a s h	fl o w s ,	w i t h	f u t u r e	c a s h	fl o w s	m e a s u r e d	b y	c u r r e n t	l a n d	v a l u e s	a d j u s t e d	t o	
r e fl e c t	t h e	q u a l i t y	o f	t h e	d e v e l o p m e n t	o p p o r t u n i t y ,	t h e	p o t e n t i a l	d e v e l o p m e n t	c o s t s	e s t i m a t e d	b y	r e f e r e n c e	t o	o b s e r v a b l e	d e v e l o p m e n t	
costs on comparable sites, and the likelihood of securing planning consent. The valuations are then benchmarked against observable 
l a n d	v a l u e s	r e fl e c t i n g	t h e	c u r r e n t	e x i s t i n g	u s e	o f	t h e	l a n d ,	w h i c h	i s	g e n e r a l l y	a g r i c u l t u r a l	a n d	w h e r e	a v a i l a b l e ,	o b s e r v a b l e	s t r a t e g i c	l a n d	
values.
At 31 December 2016
Agricultural 
land
Natural 
resources
Business 
parks
Major 
developments
Strategic 
land
       
Reversionary rental yield % weighted average – – 9.65 – –
low – – 5.12 – –
high – – 15.03 – –
Land value per acre  £’000 weighted average 4 5 67 73 24
low 1 1 2 22 1
high 11 115 2,225 333 337
Cost report totals* £’000 – 730 21,650 127,472 54,350
       
At 31 December 2015
Agricultural 
land
Natural 
resources
Business 
parks
Major 
developments
Strategic 
land
       
Reversionary rental yield % weighted average – – 10.54 – –
low – – 5.12 – –
high – – 16.95 – –
Land value per acre  £’000 weighted average 3 6 41 71 18
low 1 1 2 24 1
high 11 89 250 330 500
Cost report totals* £’000 – – 19,630 99,430 56,368
       
* Cost report totals represent the estimated cost to bring investment properties to their highest and best use.
17. Investment properties: continued 120 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
The table below shows some possible sensitivities to the key valuation metrics and the resultant changes to the valuations.
At 31 December 2016
Valuation metric +/– change +/– effect on valuation
  
Agricultural 
land
Natural 
resources
Business 
parks
Major 
developments
Strategic 
land
         
Value per acre 5% 1,275 1,498 4,835 10,783 868
Rental 5% – – 3,726 – –
Yield (e.g. 11% to 10%) 1% – – 9,272 – –
Cost report totals 5% – 37 1,083 6,374 2,718
         
At 31 December 2015
Valuation metric +/– change +/– effect on valuation
  
Agricultural 
land
Natural 
resources
Business 
parks
Major 
developments
Strategic 
land
          
Value per acre 5% 1,237 904 4,545 7,879 2,623
Rental 5% – – 2,697 – –
Yield (e.g. 11% to 10%) 1% – – 6,255 – –
Cost report totals 5% – – 982 4,972 2,818
         
The property rental income earned by the Group from its occupied investment property, all of which is leased out under operating 
leases amounted to £8,376,000 (2015: £4,601,100). Direct operating expenses arising on investment property generating rental 
income in the year amounted to £3,885,000 (2015: £2,603,200). Direct operating expenses arising on the investment property which 
did not generate rental income during the year amounted to £115,000 (2015: £86,700).
18. Investments
(a) Investment in subsidiaries
Company
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Cost:
At 1 January 207,896 3,374
Additions in the year – 207,746
Disposals in the year – (3,224)
   
At 31 December 207,896 207,896
   
Provision for impairment:
At 1 January – –
Additions in the year – –
Disposals in the year – –
   
At 31 December – –
   
Net book amount:
At 31 December 207,896 207,896
   
T h e	d i s p o s a l	i n	2 0 1 5	r e l a t e s	t o	t h e	d i s p o s a l	o f	t h e	C o m p a n y ’ s	i n t e r e s t	i n	H I C L,	r e s u l t i n g	i n	a	p r ofi t	o f	£ 1 , 4 2 6 , 0 0 0 .	
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. As permitted by section 616 of the Companies Act 2006, 
w h e r e	t h e	r e l i e f	a ff o rd e d	u n d e r	s e c t i o n	6 1 2	o f	t h e	C o m p a n i e s	A c t	2 0 0 6	a p p l i e s ,	c o s t	i s	t h e	a g g r e g a t e	o f	t h e	n o m i n a l	v a l u e	o f	t h e	
relevant number of the Company’s shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the 
subsidiary undertakings. 
17. Investment properties: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 121
(a) Investment in subsidiaries
Particulars of the Group undertakings (including joint ventures) at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
Company name Activity
Description
of shares
held
Proportion of
nominal value
of issued share
capital held by
the Company
%
    
Coalfield	Estates	Limited	
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Guarantee Company Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Trustees Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary  100
Harworth Secretariat Services Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Estates Property Group Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates Group Limited 
(1)
Non-Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth No. 3 Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Services Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Bates Regeneration Limited 
(2)
Trading Ordinary 50
Bilsthorpe Waste Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 50
EOS Inc Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates (Agricultural) Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates (Waverley Prince) Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Waverley Community Management Company Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates Curtilage Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Estates Investments Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Estates Mines Property Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary  100
Harworth Estates No 2 Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates Overage Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Estates Warwickshire Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Harworth TRR Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 100
Houghton Main Waste Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 50
Kellingley Colliery Waste Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 50
Logistics North MC Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 15.38
North Selby Mine Waste Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 50
POW Management Company Limited 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 100
Rossington Community Management Company Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
Wardley Waste Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 50
Harworth Regeneration Limited 
(1)
Dormant Ordinary 100
Mapplewell Management Company Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
The Aire Valley Land LLP 
(1)
Trading Ordinary 50
Flass Lane Management Company Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
Harworth Surface Water (North West) Limited 
(1)
Non-trading Ordinary 100
Waverley Square Limited 
(3)
Trading Ordinary 50
    
All of the above companies are incorporated in England and Wales.
Notes
(1)
	 Regist er ed 	 o ffice 	 a t 	 A dv an tage 	 House , 	 P oplar 	 W ay , 	 Rot herham , 	 Sout h 	 Y ork shir e , 	 S60 	 5TR
(2)
	 Regist er ed 	 o ffice 	 a t 	 Ink erman 	 House , 	 St . 	 Johns 	 Roa d , 	 Mea do w field , 	 Durham , 	 Coun t y 	 Durham , 	 DH 7 	 8 XL
(3)
	 Regist er ed 	 o ffice 	 a t 	 Dransfield 	 House , 	 2 	 F o x 	 V alle y 	 W ay , 	 F o x 	 V alle y , 	 She ffield , 	 S36 	 2AB
18. Investments: continued 122 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
18. Investments: continued
b) Investment in associates
Group
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
At 1 January – 56,890 
Shar e	of	pr ofit – 856 
Purchase of share capital not held – (57,746)     
At 31 December – – 
   
The Group accounted for its investment in HEPGL, a private Company incorporated in England and Wales, as an associate up to and 
i n c l u d i n g	2 4	M a r c h	2 0 1 5	b e c a u s e	i t	c o n s i d e r e d	t h a t	i t	h a d	s i g n i fi c a n t	i n fl u e n c e	o v e r	t h a t	e n t i t y	d u e	t o	i t s	2 4 . 9 %	s h a r e h o l d i n g	a n d	
representation on the HEPGL board.
T h e	G r o u p ’ s	s h a r e	o f	n e t	a s s e t s	o f	H EP G L	w a s	r e d u c e d	b y	£ 5 . 0 m	t o	r e fl e c t	t h e	f a c t	t h a t ,	u n d e r	t h e	t e r m s	o f	t h e	S h a r e h o l d e r	
A g r e e m e n t	p r i o r	t o	2 4	M a r c h	2 0 1 5 ,	t h e	fi r s t	£5 . 0 m	o f	d i v i d e n d	i n c o m e	d u e	t o	t h e	C o m p a n y	w o u l d	b e	p a i d	t o	t h e	P P F .
On 24 March 2015, Harworth Group plc acquired the remaining 75.1% of HEPGL that it did not own from the PPF. HEPGL therefore 
ceased to be accounted for as an associate at that date and has been fully consolidated in these accounts.
(c) Investment in joint ventures
 £’000
  
At 1 January 2015 –
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 1,233
Impairment of investment in joint venture (465)    
At 31 December 2015 768
  
Acquisitions 9,134
Shar e	in	pr ofit	of	joint	ventur e 647
  
At 31 December 2016 10,549
  
As a result of the 2015 acquisition of HEPGL the Group holds 50% of the issued Ordinary Shares of Bates Regeneration Limited, a 
joint venture with Banks Property Limited for the development of an investment property at Blyth, Northumberland. On 14 March 2016 
the Group purchased a 50% share of Aire Valley Land LLP from Keyland Developments Limited for a consideration of £8.5m plus 
costs of £0.5m. Aire Valley Land LLP is a joint venture Company. It controls 165 acres of land in Leeds that abuts an existing 
landholding of the Group on the former Skelton Grange power station site. On 16 December 2016, the Group entered into a joint 
v e n t u r e	a g r e e m e n t	w i t h	D r a n s fi e l d	P r o p e r t i e s	L i m i t e d	t o	a c q u i r e	a	5 0 %	s h a r e	o f	W a v e r l e y	S q u a r e	L i m i t e d .
The Group’s share of the assets and liabilities are:
December 2016 Country of incorporation
Assets 
 £’000
Liabilities 
 £’000
Interest held 
%
      
Bates Regeneration Limited England and Wales 1,213 (445)  50
Aire Valley Land LLP England and Wales 12,001 (2,320)  50
Waverley Square Limited England and Wales 100 – 50
      
December 2015 Country of incorporation
Assets 
 £’000
Liabilities 
 £’000
Interest held 
%
      
Bates Regeneration Limited England and Wales 1,213 (445) 50
      
The risks associated with these investments are as follows:
• Decline in the availability and/or an increase in the cost of credit for residential and commercial buyers; and
• Decline in market conditions and values. STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 123
19. Inventories
Group
 
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
    
Planning promotion agreements 454 –
Work in progress – 114
Finished goods 279 978
    
Total inventories 733 1,092 
    
F i n i s h e d	g o o d s	c o m p r i s e s	c o a l	fi n e s	t h a t	h a v e	b e e n	p r o c e s s e d	a n d	a r e	r e a d y	f o r	s a l e .	T h e	c o s t	o f	i n v e n t o r y	i s	r e c o g n i s e d	a s	a n	
expense within cost of sales in the year of £0.4m (2015: £1.1m). Inventories are stated after a provision of £0.3m (2015: £nil).
20. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
      
Trade receivables 4,179 1,564  –  – 
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables ( 2 2 1 )  (121)    – –
      
Net trade receivables 3,958 1,443  –  – 
Other receivables 19,111 16,723 291  153 
Prepayments and accrued income 1,375 1,159 – – 
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts – 581 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (Note 32) – – 8,860 7,517 
      
24,444 19,906 9,151 7,670 
      
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value due to the short time frame over which the assets 
are realised. All of the Group’s and Company’s receivables are denominated in sterling.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables as disclosed in Note 26. 
The Group and Company do not hold any collateral as security.
Group
Movements on the Group provisions for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
Group
 
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
At the beginning of the year ( 1 2 1 )   – 
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries – (121)  Receivables	written	off	during	the	year	as	uncollectable – –
Provided for in the year ( 1 0 0 )   –
   
At the end of the year ( 2 2 1 )   (121)     
The other classes of assets within trade and other receivables for the Group contain impaired assets of £142,000 (2015: £1,055,000) 
against which a provision of £142,000 (2015: £262,000) is held.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £58,000 (2015: £1,120,000) were past due but not impaired. These mainly relate to 
customers for whom the arrears are being collected through agreed payment plans or where cash has been collected in 2017.  
The ageing of these was as follows:
Group
 
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
Up to 3 months 15 1,095 
Over 3 months 43 25 
   
At the end of the year 58 1,120
   
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £221,000 (2015: £121,000) were impaired. The ageing analysis of the impaired trade 
receivables was as follows:
Group
 
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
Up to 3 months 46 –
Over 3 months 175 121 
   
At the end of the year 221 121
   
Provision for impairment charged to the income statement in the year was £242,000 (2015: £nil). 124 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Company
The Company had no external receivables as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil). The other classes of assets within trade and other 
receivables do not contain impaired assets.
21. Assets classified as held for sale
Group
 
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
Investment properties
At 1 January 9,128 –
Transferred from investment properties 8,310 9,128
Subsequent expenditure 1,588 –
Decrease in fair value (224)  –
Disposals (10,452)  –
   
At 31 December 8,350 9,128
   
T h e	a s s e t s	c l a s s i fi e d	f o r	s a l e	a t	e a c h	y e a r	e n d	r e l a t e	t o	i n v e s t m e n t	p r o p e r t i e s	e x p e c t e d	t o	b e	s o l d	w i t h i n	t w e l v e	m o n t h s .
22. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000 
      
Cash 13,007 27,564 2,171 6,887 
      
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	in	the	cash	flow	statement 13,007 27,564 2,171 6,887 
      
23. Borrowings
Group
 
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Current:
 Secured – other loans (1,819)  (400)     
(1,819)  (400)     
Non-current:
 Secured – bank loans (37,142)  (48,968)   Secured – other loans (13,517)  (15,151)     
(50,659)  (64,119)     
Details of the borrowings acquired as part of the acquisition of subsidiary on 24 March 2015 are provided in Note 3.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had bank borrowings of £38.0m, £37.0m net of unamortised borrowings costs (2015: £50.0m, 
£49.0m net of unamortised borrowing costs) and a further £15.6m, £15.5m net of unamortised borrowing costs (2015: £15.7m, 
£15.5m net of unamortised borrowing costs) of infrastructure loans, which resulted in total borrowings of £52.5m net of unamortised 
borrowing costs (2015: £64.5m net of unamortised borrowing costs). The bank borrowings are part of a £75.0m (2015: £65.0m) 
r e v o l v i n g	c r e d i t	f a c i l i t y	f r o m	T h e	R o y a l	B a n k	o f	S c o t l a n d .	T h e	f a c i l i t y	i s	r e p a y a b l e	o n	1 3	Fe b r u a r y	2 0 2 1	(fi v e	y e a r	t e r m )	a f t e r	b e i n g	
e x t e n d e d	f o r	a	y e a r	o n	1	A u g u s t	2 0 1 6 .	T h e	f a c i l i t y	i s	n o n - a m o r t i s i n g	b a s i s	a n d	s u b j e c t	t o	fi n a n c i a l	a n d	o t h e r	c o v e n a n t s .	
The infrastructure loans of £15.6m (2015: £15.7m) are provided by public bodies in order to promote the development of major sites. 
They comprise a £0.8m (2015: £1.2m) loan from Leeds LEP in respect of the Prince of Wales site, £11.7m (2015: £10.9m) from the 
H o m e s	a n d	C o m m u n i t y	A g e n c y	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	W a v e r l ey	a n d	£ 0 . 1 m	( 2 0 1 5 :	£ n i l )	f o r	V i l l a g e	F a r m ,	£ 2 . 3 m	( 2 0 1 5 :	£ 3 . 6 m )	f r o m	S h e ffi e l d	
City Region JESSICA Fund for Rockingham and £0.7m (2015: £nil) for the Advanced Manufacturing Park at Waverley. 
The loans are drawn as work on the respective sites is progressed and they are repaid on agreed dates or when disposals are made 
from the sites.
20. Trade and other receivables: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 125
Current loans are stated after deduction of unamortised borrowing cost of £nil (2015: £nil). Non-current bank and other loans are 
stated after deduction of unamortised borrowing costs of £1.1m (2015: £1.2m). The bank loans and overdrafts are secured by way of 
fi x e d	c h a r g e s	o v e r	c e r t a i n	a s s e t s	o f	t h e	G r o u p .
24. Trade and other payables
Current liabilities 
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
      
Current
Trade payables 1,555 875 443 19 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (Note 32) – – 52 600
Taxation and social security 7,852 2,720 47 213
Other creditors 2,087 2,920 – –
Accruals and deferred income 22,225 10,854 1,343 179
      
33,719 17,369 1,885 1,011
      
Accruals and deferred income includes £15.4m (2015: £6.0m) of cost accruals.
Non-current liabilities 
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
      
Non-current
Other creditors 1,520 2,280 – –
      
1,520 2,280 – –
      
Non-current creditors relate to deferred consideration due on land purchases after one year.
25. Financial instruments and derivatives
O n	2 1	J u n e	2 0 1 6	H EP G L	e n t e r e d	i n t o	a	f o u r - y e a r	s w a p	t o	fi x	£ 3 0 m	o f	b o r r o w i n g s	a t	a n	a l l - i n	r a t e	o f	2 . 9 5 5 %	i n c l u d i n g	f e e s .	T h e	
interest rate swap has been measured at fair value which is determined using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield 
curves. The fair value of the interest rate swap at 31 December 2016 was a loss of £0.4m (2015: £nil).
During the year the following loss was recognised in the other comprehensive income statement in relation to the interest rate swap:
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
Loss	on	inter est	rate	swap	-	cash	flow	hedge 366 –
   
T h e	G r o u p ’ s	p r i n c i p a l	fi n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t s	d u r i n g	t h e	y e a r	i n c l u d e d	t r a d e	a n d	o t h e r	r e c e i v a b l e s ,	c a s h	a n d	c a s h	e q u i v a l e n t s ,	i n t e r e s t	
bearing borrowings and trade and other payables.
Other financial assets and liabilities
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
  
Group
Book value 
 £’000
Fair value 
 £’000
Book value 
 £’000
Fair value 
 £’000
     
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 13,007 13,007 27,564 27,564
Trade and other receivables 22,792 22,792 19,906 19,906
Liabilities
Bank and other borrowings 52,478 52,478 64,519 64,519
Trade and other payables 28,221 28,221 17,369 17,369 
      
23. Borrowings: continued 126 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
  
Company
Book value 
 £’000
Fair value 
 £’000
Book value 
 £’000
Fair value 
 £’000
     
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2,171 2,171 6,887 6,887
Trade and other receivables 9,151 9,151 7,670 7,670
Liabilities
Bank and other borrowings – – – –
Trade and other payables 2,487 2,487 1,446 1,446
     
I n	a c c o r d a n c e	w i t h	I A S	3 9 ,	t h e	G r o u p	c l a s s i fi e s	t h e	a s s e t s	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	i n	t h e	a n a l y s i s	a b o v e	a s	‘ l o a n s	a n d	r e c e i v a b l e s ’	a n d	‘ o t h e r	
fi n a n c i a l	l i a b i l i t i e s ’ ,	r e s p e c t i v e l y .	A t	t h e	2 0 1 6	a n d	2 0 1 5	y e a r	e n d s ,	t h e	G r o u p	d i d	n o t	h a v e	a n y	‘ h e l d	t o	m a t u r i t y ’	o r	‘ a v a i l a b l e	f o r	s a l e ’	
fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	o r	‘ h e l d	f o r	t r a d i n g ’	fi n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	a n d	l i a b i l i t i e s	a s	d e fi n e d	b y	I A S	3 9 .	
T h e	f a i r	v a l u e	o f	b a n k	a n d	o t h e r	b o r r o w i n g s	e q u a l s	t h e i r	c a r r y i n g	a m o u n t ,	a s	t h e	i m p a c t	o f	d i s c o u n t i n g	i s	n o t	s i g n i fi c a n t .	T h e	f a i r	
values are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
26. Financial risk management
T h e	G r o u p ’ s	o v e r a l l	r i s k	m a n a g e m e n t	p r o g r a m m e	f o c u s e s	o n	c r e d i t	a n d	l i q u i d i t y	r i s k s	t o	m i n i m i s e	p o t e n t i a l	a d v e r s e	e ff e c t s	o n	t h e	
G roup ’ s	fin a nci a l 	p e r fo r m a nc e .	
Risk management is carried out centrally under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Board discusses and agrees 
courses of action to cover material risk management areas, including credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
The Shareholders’ Agreement in place during 2014, ceased on 24 March 2015, when the Group acquired the remaining 75.1% of the 
issued share capital of HEPGL, see Note 3.
Credit risk
The Group is subject to credit risk arising from outstanding receivables and committed cash and cash equivalents and deposits with 
b a n k s	a n d	fi n a n c i a l	i n s t i t u t i o n s .	T h e	G r o u p ’ s	p o l i c y	i s	t o	m a n a g e	c r e d i t	e x p o s u r e	t o	t r a d i n g	c o u n t e r p a r t i e s	w i t h i n	d e fi n e d	t r a d i n g	l i m i t s .	
The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on cash and cash equivalent balances. The Group and Company hold all of their 
cash deposits with their principal bankers.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from external borrowings which are charged at LIBOR plus 2%. On 21 June 2016 HEPGL entered 
i n t o	a	f o u r - y e a r	s w a p	w i t h	R B S	t o	fi x	£ 3 0 m	o f	b o r r o w i n g	a t	a n	a l l	i n	r a t e	o f	2 . 9 5 5 % ,	i n c l u d i n g	f e e s .	T h e	s w a p	i s	h e d g e	a c c o u n t e d	w i t h	
any unrealised movements going through reserves.
T h e	G r o u p	a l s o	h a s	fi v e	i n f r a s t r u c t u r e	l o a n s	w i t h	a l l	i n	f u n d i n g	r a t e s	o f	b e t w e e n	2 . 4 %	a n d	4 . 0 % .
Liquidity risk
T h e	G r o u p	i s	s u b j e c t	t o	t h e	r i s k	t h a t	i t	w i l l	n o t	h a v e	s u ffi c i e n t	l i q u i d	r e s o u r c e s	t o	f u n d	i t s	o n - g o i n g	b u s i n e s s .	T h e	G r o u p	m a n a g e s	i t s	
l i q u i d i t y	r e q u i r e m e n t s	w i t h	t h e	u s e	o f	b o t h	s h o r t	a n d	l o n g - t e r m	c a s h	fl o w	f o r e c a s t s .	
The Group had net debt at 31 December 2016 of £39,471,000; (2015: £36,955,000). The Group generated cash from operating 
activities and investing activities for the year of £224,000 (2015: used £91,119,000).
25. Financial instruments and derivatives: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 127
T h e	t a b l e	b e l o w	a n a l y s e s	t h e	G r o u p ’ s	fi n a n c i a l	l i a b i l i t i e s	w h i c h	w i l l	b e	s e t t l e d	o n	a	n e t	b a s i s	i n t o	r e l e v a n t	m a t u r i t y	g r o u p i n g s	b a s e d	o n	
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the gross 
c o n t r a c t u a l	u n d i s c o u n t e d	c a s h	fl o w s .
Less than
1 year 
  £’000
Between
1 and 2 years
  £’000
Between 
2 and 5 years 
  £’000
    
At 31 December 2016 
Trade and other payables (including deferred income) 35,239 – –
Interest payable on borrowings – 34 694
Bank and other borrowings 1,819 8,626 41,305
    
At December 2015
Trade and other payables (including deferred income) 19,645  –  – 
Interest payable on borrowings – – 345
Bank and other borrowings 400 3,000 60,774
    
Capital risk management
T h e	G r o u p	i s	s u b j e c t	t o	t h e	r i s k	t h a t	i t s	c a p i t a l	s t r u c t u r e	w i l l	n o t	b e	s u ffi c i e n t	t o	s u p p o r t	t h e	g r o w t h	o f	t h e	b u s i n e s s .	T h e	G r o u p ’ s	
objectives when managing capital are:
•  to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and have the resources to provide returns for Shareholders and 
b e n e fi t s	f o r	o t h e r	S t a k e h o l d e r s ;	
•  to maximise returns to Shareholders by allocating capital across the business based upon the expected level of return and risk; 
and
• to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
T h e	G r o u p	m a n a g e s	a n d	m o n i t o r s	i t s	c a s h	b a l a n c e s	t o	e n s u r e	i t	h a s	s u ffi c i e n t	c a p i t a l	t o	m a n a g e	a n d	m a i n t a i n	i t s	b u s i n e s s	a c t i v i t i e s .	
Cash balances are disclosed Note 22.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital 
to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net debt to equity. Net debt is total debt less cash and cash equivalents and at 
31 December 2016 this was £39.5m (2015: net debt £37.0m).
T h e	G r o u p	h a s	i n	p l a c e	a	£ 7 5 . 0 m	r e v o l v i n g	c r e d i t	f a c i l i t y	f r o m	T h e	R o y a l	B a n k	o f	S c o t l a n d	( R B S ) .	T h e	f a c i l i t y	i s	a	fi v e - y e a r	t e r m	f a c i l i t y	
w h i c h	e n d s	i n	Fe b r u a r y	2 0 2 1 .	I t	i s	o n	a	n o n - a m o r t i s i n g	b a s i s	a n d	i s	s u b j e c t	t o	fi n a n c i a l	a n d	o t h e r	c o v e n a n t s .
The facility provided by RBS is subject to covenants over loan to market value of investment properties, gearing, and minimum 
consolidated net worth.
The Group comfortably operated within its requirements throughout the year.
27. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined contribution pension schemes
T h e	G r o u p	p a y s	d e fi n e d	c o n t r i b u t i o n	p a y m e n t s	t o	p e n s i o n	i n s u r a n c e	p l a n s .	C o n t r i b u t i o n s	t o	d e fi n e d	c o n t r i b u t i o n	s c h e m e s	i n	t h e	y e a r	
amounted to £256,000 (2015: £202,000). The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an expense when they are due.
Defined benefit obligations
T h e	G r o u p	a n d	C o m p a n y	h a s	d e fi n e d	b e n e fi t	o b l i g a t i o n s	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	t h e	B l e n k i n s o p p	S e c t i o n	o f	t h e	I n d u s t r y - W i d e	M i n e w o r k e r s ’	
Pension Scheme (the Blenkinsopp scheme). This scheme is closed to new members.
T h e	b a l a n c e	s h e e t	a m o u n t s	i n	r e s p e c t	o f	r e t i r e m e n t	b e n e fi t	o b l i g a t i o n s	a r e :
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
     
Relating to continuing activities
Blenkinsopp 602 435 602 435 
     
602 435 602 435 
     
Contributions to the Blenkinsopp scheme of £189,300 were made by the Group during 2016. In 2015 Contributions of £189,300 were 
paid under an indemnity by UK Coal Production Limited. It is expected that contributions of a similar amount will be paid in 2017. At 
December 2016, no contributions remained unpaid (2015: £nil).
26. Financial risk management: continued 128 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
T h e	p e n s i o n	s c h e m e	i s	v a l u e d	a n n u a l l y	b y	a	q u a l i fi e d	i n d e p e n d e n t	a c t u a r y	f o r	t h e	p u r p o s e s	o f	I A S	1 9	( r e v i s e d )	a n d	t h e	p r e p a r a t i o n	o f	
fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s .	T h e	a s s u m p t i o n s	w h i c h	u s u a l l y	h a v e	t h e	m o s t	s i g n i fi c a n t	e ff e c t	o n	t h e	r e s u l t s	o f	t h e	v a l u a t i o n	a r e	t h e	d i s c o u n t	
rate, which is based on bond yields, and the rates of increase in pensions. There are no active members of this scheme. The main 
assumptions underlying the valuation of the Blenkinsopp scheme were:
As at 
31 December 
2016
As at 
31 December 
2015
 §   
Discount rate 2.55% p.a. 3.8% p.a.
Rate of pension increases 2.30% p.a. 2.2% p.a.
Rate	of	price	inflation	(RPI) 3.25% p.a. 3.2% p.a.
Rate	of	price	inflation	(CPI) 2.25% p.a. 2.2% p.a.
Rate of cash commutation 20.00% 20.00%
 §   
Year ended 
31 December 
2016
Year ended 
31 December 
2015
 §   
Longevity at age 60 for current pensioners (years) 18.6 – 22.0 18.6 – 21.9
 §   
Longevity at age 60 for future pensioners (years) 20.3 – 24.0 20.2 – 23.9
 §   
The assumed pension increases depend on the period of service accrual (before April 1997: no increases, after 1997: in line with 
s t a t u t o r y	m i n i m u m	i n c r e a s e s	b a s e d	o n	c o n s u m e r	p r i c e	i n fl a t i o n ) .	
Defined benefit obligations
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet:
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
2014 
 £’000
2013 
 £’000
2012 
 £’000
      
Fair value of plan assets 2,117 1,727  1,740  1,393  1,282 
Present value of funding obligations (2,719)   (2,162)   (2,304)   (2,076)   (2,002)        
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet ( 6 0 2 )   (435)   (564)   (683)   (720)        
The Blenkinsopp scheme does not own any shares in the Company.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Expenses (74)   (36)  Interest cost ( 1 3 )   (21)     
(87)   (57)     
A	f u r t h e r	c o s t	o f	£ 2 6 9 , 0 0 0	( 2 0 1 5 :	l o s s	o f	£ 3 , 0 0 0 )	h a s	b e e n	r e fl e c t e d	i n	t h e	s t a t e m e n t	o f	c o m p r e h e n s i v e	i n c o m e	i n	t h e	y e a r .	T h i s	
r e p r e s e n t s	t h e	n e t	e ffe c t	o f	e x p e r i e n c e ,	a n d	a c t u a r i a l	g a i n s	a n d	l o s s e s	o n	t h e	s c h e m e	i n	t h e	y e a r .
Change in assets
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 1,727 1,740 
Interest income 68 59 
Actual return on scheme assets excluding interest income 289 (72)   Employer contributions 189 189
Expenses (74)  (36)  Benefits	paid (82)  (153)     
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 2,117 1,727
   
27. Retirement benefit obligations: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 129
Plan assets are comprised as follows:
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Gilts 1,610 1,282 
Corporate bonds 511 435
Other (4)  10
   
Total 2,117 1,727
   
Change in defined benefit obligations
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Pr esent	value	of	defined	benefit	obligation	at	the	start	of	the	year (2,162)  (2,304)  Interest cost (81)  (80)  Remeasurements:
– Gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 56
–	(Loss)/gain	arising	fr om	changes	in	financial	assumptions (558)  13 
Benefits	paid 82 153 
   
Present value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year (2,719)  (2,162)     
Analysis of the movement of the balance sheet liability
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
At the start of the year (435)   (564)  Total amounts recognised in the income statement (87)   (57)  Contributions 
Employer contributions 189 189 
Net actuarial loss recognised in the year (269)   (3)     
At the end of the year ( 6 0 2 )   (435)     
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
At the start of the year 212 215 
Net actuarial loss in the year (269)   (3)     
At the end of the year (57)   212 
   
Experience gains and losses
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Actual return on scheme assets excluding interest income 289 (72)   Remeasurements:
– Gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 56
–	(Loss)/gain	arising	fr om	changes	in	financial	assumptions (558)   13 
   
Net actuarial loss (269)  (3)     
C o n t r i b u t i o n s	a r e	d e t e r m i n e d	b y	a	q u a l i fi e d	a c t u a r y	o n	t h e	b a s i s	o f	t r i e n n i a l	v a l u a t i o n s ,	u s i n g	t h e	p r o j e c t e d	c r e d i t	u n i t	m e t h o d .	T h e	
most recent valuations for the purpose of determining contributions were at 31 December 2012, which were agreed in December 2015. 
T h i s	s h o w e d	a n	e s t i m a t e d	p a s t	s e r v i c e	d e fi c i t	o f	£ 2 , 6 7 4 , 0 0 0 .	T h e	n e x t	v a l u a t i o n	h a s	y e t	t o	b e	a g r e e d	a n d	s i g n e d .	
27. Retirement benefit obligations: continued 130 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
T h e	s e n s i t i v i t y	o f	t h e	d e fi n e d	b e n e fi t	o b l i g a t i o n	t o	c h a n g e s	i n	t h e	w e i g h t e d	p r i n c i p a l	a s s u m p t i o n s	i s :
Year ended 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
   
Change in discount rate by 0.1% 52 37
Change	in	price	inflation	(and	associated	assumptions)	by	0.1% 27 10
Increase in life expectancy by 1 year 64 40
   
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice 
some of the assumptions may be correlated. No changes have been made to the method and types of assumptions from those in the 
previous year.
28. Called up share capital
O n	2 4	M a r c h	2 0 1 5 ,	t h e	C o m p a n y	i s s u e d	2 , 3 1 7 , 2 4 1 , 3 7 7	O rd i n a r y	S h a r e s	a t	7 . 2 5	p e n c e	e a c h	a s	p a r t	o f	a	p l a c i n g	a n d	o p e n	off e r	o f	
which 730,674,465 Ordinary Shares were issued to the PPF as part of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of 75.1% of the 
issued share capital of HEPGL. On 26 April 2016, 3 Ordinary Shares were issued at 1 pence each and all shares in issue were 
consolidated from 1 pence shares into 10 pence shares.
2016 2015
  
Group and Company
Number 
of shares
 
 £’000
Number 
of shares
 
 £’000
      
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2,922,697,857 29,227 605,456,480 6,055
Shares issued 3 – 2,317,241,377 23,172
Share consolidation (1 for 10) (2,630,428,074)  – – –
      
31 December 292,269,786 29,227 2,922,697,857 29,227
      
Long Term Incentive Plan
A Long Term Incentive Plan was introduced in 2016 for Executive Directors and Senior Executives. There were no shares outstanding 
a t	3 1	D e c e m b e r	2 0 1 6	( 2 0 1 5 :	n i l ) .	T h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	r e m u n e r a t i o n	r e p o r t	w h i c h	f o r m s	p a r t	o f	t h e s e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	p r o v i d e s	d e t a i l s	o f	
current incentive plans.
29. Share premium account
Group and Company 
2016 
 £’000
2015 
 £’000
   
At 1 January 129,121 32,911 
Transferred to other distributable reserves (129,121)  –
Premium on shares issued – 99,160 
Costs relating to rights issue – (2,950)      
At 31 December – 129,121 
   
On 18 May 2016, approval was granted from the High Court to cancel the £129m share premium account of the Company and for it 
to be re-designated as distributable reserves.
27. Retirement benefit obligations: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 131
30. Capital and other financial commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at 31 December 2016 is £4,216,000 (2015: £1,465,000).
31. Operating lease commitments
T h e	G r o u p	l e a s e s	a	n u m b e r	o f	v e h i c l e s ,	offi c e	e q u i p m e n t	a n d	offi c e	f a c i l i t i e s	u n d e r	o p e r a t i n g	l e a s e s .	T h e	l e a s e s	r u n	b e t w e e n	o n e	
year and three years.
Future minimum lease payments
At 31 December 2016, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases were payable as follows:
Group Company
  
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December 
2015 
 £’000
     
Less than one year 35 33 –
Between	one	and	five	years 10 30 – – 
Mor e	than	five	years – – – –
     
 45 63 – – 
     
Amounts recognised in the income statement
     
Lease cost 60 25 – –
     
32. Related party transactions
Group
Directors and key management compensation
The remuneration of the Directors is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report. The remuneration of key management is given in 
Note 8.
Peel Group
The Peel Group charged £42,500 (2015: £41,875) in respect of fees for Steven Underwood and £nil (2015: £8,202) for the rental of 
offi c e	s p a c e .	
In 2015 the Group relinquished an option to purchase 50% of the share capital of Peel Wind Farms (Blue Sky Forest) Limited in return 
for £4.4m from Peel Holdings Wind Farms (IOM) Limited. This resulted in a gain of £3.2m shown in the consolidated income statement.
Harworth Estates Group
Revenue included £320,000 for the period up to 24 March 2015 in respect of recharges to the Harworth Estates Group for ongoing 
costs of the Company in 2015 prior to its acquisition into the Group. 
Scratching Cat
G e off	M a s o n ,	o u r	f o r m e r	C o m p a n y	S e c r e t a r y ,	s u p p l i e d	h i s	s e r v i c e s	t h r o u g h	S c r a t c h i n g	C a t	L i m i t e d ,	a	C o m p a n y	o f	w h i c h	h e	i s	a	
Director. During the year charges were made in relation to Company secretarial duties of £73,000 (2015: £115,000).
Company
The Company carried out the following transactions with subsidiary undertakings.
Management charges
During the year the Company raised management charges of £nil on subsidiary undertakings (2015: £48,011). 
Details of the Company’s intercompany balances and interest at 31 December 2016 are set out below:
As at 31 December 2016 
£’000
As at 31 December 2015 
£’000
  
Net Interest 
receivable/
(payable)   in  
the year 
 £’000
Net amounts 
due from/(to)  
 £’000
Net Interest 
receivable/
(payable)   in  
the year 
 £’000
Net amounts  
due fr om/(to)   £’000
      
EOS Inc Limited 162 7,465 75 7,303
Harworth Estates Limited 14 1,127 3 (281)  Harworth Guarantee Co. Limited ( 1 )  (52)  (1)  (50)  Harworth Estates Property Group Limited – 49 – (269)  Coalfield	Estates	Limited 5 219 5 214
      
180 8,808 82 6,917
      
Dividends received
During the year the Company received dividends of £nil (2015: £nil) from subsidiary undertakings.
Interest
During the year the Company received net interest of £180,000 (2015: £82,000) from subsidiary companies that form part of the 
continuing operations.
All transactions occurred whilst the related parties were subsidiary undertakings.  132 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016: continued
Receivables and indebtedness
Details of the Company’s receivables and indebtedness are set out in Notes 20 and 24 and amounts due from, or owed to, related 
parties are set out below:
Owed to:
As at 
31 December
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December
2015 
 £’000
   
Scratching Cat Limited – (9)   Harworth Guarantee Co. Limited (52)   (50)  Harworth Estates Limited – (281)  Harworth Estates Property Group Limited – (269)     
(52)   (609)     
Owed by:
As at 
31 December
2016 
 £’000
As at 
31 December
2015 
 £’000
   
Harworth Estates Limited 1,127 – 
Coalfield	Estates	Limited 219 214 
EOS Inc Limited 7,465 7,303
Harworth Estates Property Group Limited 49 –
   
8,860 7,517 
   
33. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 17 March 2017 the Group announced a share placing for 29,226,974 new Ordinary Shares at 95.0 pence per share which were 
issued raising £27.1m (net of expenses).
32. Related party transactions: continued STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 133
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company information and advisers
 
Chairman
Jonson Cox 
Chief Executive
Owen Michaelson
Finance Director
Andrew Kirkman
Non-Executive Directors
Lisa Clement  
Anthony Donnelly  
Andrew Cunningham 
Martyn Bowes 
Steven Underwood
Company Secretary and Registered Office
Chris Birch 
Advantage House 
Poplar Way 
Catc l i ffe 
Rotherham 
South Yorkshire 
S60 5TR
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
St Paul’s Place 
121 Norfolk Street 
Sheffi e l d 
S1 2LE
Solicitors
DLA Piper UK LLP 
1 St. Paul’s Place 
Sheffi e l d 
South Yorkshire 
S1 2JX
Brokers
Investec Bank PLC 
2 Gresham Street 
London  
EC2V 7QP
Canaccord Genuity Limited 
88 Wood Street 
London 
EC2V 7QR
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
Principal bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland PLC 
3rd Floor 
2 Whitehall Quay 
Leeds  
LS1 4HR
Lloyds Banking Group PLC 
2nd Floor 
Lisbon House 
116 Wellington Street 
Leeds  
LS1 4LT
Company registered number
2649340
Share price information
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are 
traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
SEDOL number 0719072 
ISIN number GB0007190720 
Reuters ticker HWG.L 
Bloomberg ticker HWG:LN
Company information and advisers
  Definitions and abbreviations used
AMP  Advanced Manufacturing Park, 
Rotherham
ATR Absolute Total Return
CA06 Companies Act 2006
Code  UK Corporate Governance Code 2014
Company Harworth Group plc
CPD Continuing Professional Development
EB T	 E m p l o y e e	B e n e fi t	T r u s t
EES Estates, Environment and Safety team
FCA Financial Conduct Authority
FRSs Financial Reporting Standards
Harworth Estates  Harworth Estates Property Group 
Limited and its subsidiaries
Harworth or Group  Harworth Group plc and its 
subsidiaries
HEMPL  Harworth Estates Mines Property 
Limited
HEPGL  Harworth Estates Property Group 
Limited
HICL Harworth Insurance Company Limited
IFRSs  International Financial Reporting 
Standards
Kepler Kepler Associates
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
LTV Loan To Value
NAV Net Asset Value
PEG Principles The Pre-emption Group Principles
PPAs Planning Promotion Agreements
PPF The Pension Protection Fund
PRA Prudential Regulatory Authority
PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
RCF Revolving Credit Facility
Regulations  Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013
RIDDOR  Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 
2013
SHEMS  Safety, Health and Environment 
Management System
SOCI Statement of Comprehensive Income
STOR Short Term Operating Reserve
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UKCMHL UK Coal Mine Holdings Limited
WAULT  Weighted Average Unexpired Lease 
Term
134 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 www.harworthgroup.com
