 ANNUAL REPORT
2014 Contents
In this report
This symbol will direct you to more 
information within this report.
This report and additional information 
about the Group can be found online 
at henderson.com/IR
Performance highlights
Strategic report
2  Henderson at a glance
4  Chairman’s statement
7 Chief Executive’s review
12 Business model
14  Our strategy
16 Guiding principles
18  Key performance indicators
20  Financial review
24 Distribution and client service
28  Our core capabilities
34 Our people
36  Risk management
40  Corporate responsibility
Governance
44   Corporate governance
48  Board of Directors
50  Committee reports
57  Directors’ report
60  Directors’ remuneration report
62 Directors’ remuneration policy
74 Annual report on remuneration 
87  Directors’ responsibilities 
statement
88 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements 
97   Group and Company  

Other information
146 Glossary
148  Shareholder information
150 Summary of movements in AUM

2011 2010
66
62
83%
of funds  over three years
Investment outperformance
2014 2013 2012
69
82
83
£
81 .2bn
Assets under management
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
61.6
64.3
65.6
75.2
81.2
9.00p
Dividend per share
2014 2013 2012 2010 2011
7.00
6.50
7.15
8.00
9.00
£
77.7m
Net cash
2014 2013 2012
2011 2010
-28.0
-20.8
17.9
56.3
77.7
Pages 1 to 43 of the 2014 Annual Report constitute the Strategic report 
which has been signed on behalf of the Board: 
 
 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
14.7p
Diluted earnings per share
2
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
10.9
7.3
10.3
13.0
14.7
2.  Calculation based on continuing underlying  
 
of the parent (see note 2 on page 19).
2014 2013 2012 2011
-13
-8
-6
6
11
11%
Net new money growth
1
2010 2011
1.  As a percentage of opening AUM from  
continuing operations. When Henderson was founded in 1934, the company was  
 

service have nurtured a trusting relationship with clients – their 
 

Now an independent active asset manager and with investment 
expertise across asset classes, Henderson offers clients access  
to all major markets around the globe, with core capabilities in 
European Equities, Global Equities, Global Fixed Income,  

Throughout this Annual Report, we pay tribute to our current clients, 

CLIENT
 FOCUS 
 1
Strategic report Henderson UK Property OEIC. 
3.  Includes Middle East and Africa.

Our mission
To be a trusted global asset manager, focused on delivering 

Our philosophy
Active fund management, with our clients’ needs at the heart 

2014 highlights
• 
• 
1
• 
over three years
2
• Investment into our investment capabilities, distribution reach 
and infrastructure
• 
• Acquisition of Geneva Capital Management
Henderson at a glance
Europe
3
North 
America
UK
GROWTH AND
GLOBALISATION
• Strong Retail presence
• Opportunities to 

Institutional presence
• 
• Most established market
• Strong Retail and 
Institutional client base
• 1 77 investment professionals
• 
• Established Retail 
distribution network
• Institutional potential 
strengthened with 

Capital Management
• 22 investment professionals
• 
2   Total Institutional T otal Retail 
Australia
Asia
  UK OEICs and 
Unit Trusts
 SICAVs
US Mutuals  
Institutional 




Alternatives  
AUM
£
81 .2bn
• Restructured in 201 4
• 24 investment 
professionals
• 
We have four key 
product ranges – UK 
OEICs and Unit Trusts, 
SICAVs, US Mutuals 
and Institutional

investment capabilities – 



and Alternatives
Our clients are 

private investors and 
institutional investors
• Fledgling business with 
strong brand and heritage
• 3 investment professionals
• 
AUM by client 
channel (£bn)
46.0
35.2
AUM by 
product (£bn)
25.8
14.2
6.0
35.2
AUM by core 
capability (%)
19
32
24
6
19
 3
Strategic report Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
It is a great privilege to chair Henderson in the 
company’s 80th year. This anniversary has given me the 
opportunity to look back over the company’s history, as 
well as forward to its future. A series of familiar themes 
emerge. First, the boldness with which our founding 


America, Spain and East Africa, and was one of the 
early pioneers of global investing. It strikes me that he 
would have approved of the high conviction, active, 
global approach which unites our fund managers today. 
Second, the tradition of innovation which began with 

Administration, founded to manage his estate. In the 
1950s and 60s, Henderson Administration switched 
 
of growth, and built a reputation for well managed 
investment trusts. Third, longstanding relationships, built 

was merged into Cazenove Ackroyd in 1932, and  
JP Morgan Cazenove remains one of our corporate 
advisers to this day. The words written by the third  
Lord Faringdon to introduce his book commemorating 
the company’s 50th anniversary ring as true now as  

continue to depend upon our own people, on the host  
of international connections we are lucky enough to 


 
is deeply ingrained in our corporate history. It is of vital 
importance that we respect the fact that we are trusted 
with our clients’ money, on which their future wellbeing 
may depend. I see it as a key part of the Board’s  
role to set a clear tone from the top, and to reinforce  

interests and treating customers fairly are topics 
discussed regularly and in depth by the Board, and  


During the last year, some of the Board spent time 
visiting our UK retail transfer agent, International 
Financial Data Services, to review how a subset of our 

and concerns are dealt with. I, personally, am keen  
to meet a wide cross section of clients. I have met  
with all the Chairs of our Investment Trusts and  
have received valuable feedback. In addition, Angela 


 
also recognised the value of its regular discussions 
around clients.

Board was carried out by Independent Board Evaluation. 
This found that the Board was effective in its operation 
and had improved from the previous evaluation. 
2014 viewed from the Boardroom

history is written, I would like to think that 2014 will  
be remembered as a year of disciplined investment in 

to continue to build our investment management 

America and Australia, and to continue to invest in 
global platforms. Most of our investments focused on 
organic growth, but these initiatives were supplemented  


America. The launch of TIAA Henderson Real Estate  

strategic project, to give clients invested in Property 

capital to accelerate future growth. This, combined  

business, demonstrates Henderson’s strategic  

Henderson’s strategic philosophy  
of being client-led is deeply ingrained  

Richard Gillingwater 
Chairman
4  Ben Gutteridge — Brewin Dolphin  
Henderson has helped shape the delivery 
of our investment thoughts to our group – 
they have been a pioneer in that regard.
CLIENT 
 FOCUS 
Strategic report
 5 Management in 2009 and Gartmore in 201 1. 


major markets. Despite a heightened level of organic 


I was particularly pleased to see the progress made 
across the business this year to build the leadership 
team, in support of our growth and globalisation 


and Phil Wagstaff (Global Head of Distribution), he 
completes a strong senior team to support Chief 

the business demonstrate Henderson’s increasing 

seen as an attractive, ambitious, growing business. 
Over the course of 2014, the Board continued its 
programme of engagement with a broad range of 

shareholders. We engage actively with our regulators, 
to ensure that we maintain an open dialogue about their 

to working responsibly with our regulators to strengthen 

broaden and strengthen our engagement with our 
shareholders. We commissioned an Investor Perception 
Study and reviewed its implications at the Board, 
and I was pleased to meet many of our loyal Australian 
shareholders in person during the Board’s visit to Sydney 
for the Annual General Meeting in May. Tim How, as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, consulted 
widely with shareholders about the changes to our 
remuneration policy and practice which we propose 
to introduce this year. 
Dividend and capital management
Henderson’s capital position strengthened during 2014, 
and we ended the year with a regulatory capital surplus. 



April 2016. During 2015, our priority will be to build the 
level of capital buffer deemed appropriate by the Board 
to take our capital to a robust position. 
Henderson operates a progressive ordinary dividend 

in line with earnings growth over the medium term. 

of 6.4 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for 
the year to 9.0 pence per share, a 12.5% increase over 

on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 
8 May 2015. 
Chairman’s statement continued
Conclusion
In our 80th anniversary year, Henderson has continued 
its long tradition of investing in people, capabilities 

and service to our clients. Our growth and globalisation 



In closing, I would like to thank my fellow Board 
members for their support and commitment, and 

for a successful year. My thanks also to our shareholders 
and clients for their continuing support.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
Governance is paramount to our 
sustainable success.
At Henderson, we are committed to making certain that the Board 
devotes enough time to consider the Group’s strategy and its links 
to the business. We believe that our governance framework remains 
robust, continuing to enable us to deliver on our strategy.
Read our detailed report on governance from page 44
6  Chief Executive’s review
Investing for our clients
Our 80th anniversary celebrations this year gave us 

of pioneering products, global investment horizons and 
valued relationships with clients and counterparties. For 
me, the single most important aspect of our history is that 
 

What did we deliver for our  
clients in 2014?
At the heart of what every asset manager aspires to  

and consistently strong investment returns. At Henderson,  
83% of our funds outperformed over the three year  
period our clients monitor most closely, with two thirds 
outperforming over the more volatile one year period.
Investment performance by core capability
1 year 3 years




Alternatives
Total 66% 83% 



which meant that even in falling markets we gained market 
share in the second half of 201 4. Performance in Global 

managed styles delivering strong performance for clients,  


pulled back from its 201 3 levels, as government bond 
markets stayed stronger than our teams anticipated. 

contributed well, with the Henderson Horizon Global High 
 

 
long/short funds succeeded in providing better defensive 
investment options than many of our peers – an attractive 
 
the second half of the year. In short, we delivered 
impressive investment performance across a broad  
range of strategies. 
Investment process and performance form the bedrock of 
what we deliver to our clients, but strong, sustainable client 

to maintain and enhance these connections continue to 
evolve. We have always worked with our largest clients  
to develop new investment ideas. As our product design 
process evolved this year, we sought client feedback at the 
design stage of a series of new strategies to meet current 
and future demand, which led to us launching new funds 
focused on global and emerging markets corporate bond 
strategies. In the intermediated Retail markets, we also 
increased the level of information and insight we source 
from our clients’ end customers, commissioning research 
into evolving customer needs and inviting 300 of our end 
customers to sit on a Customer Panel to share their views 
on a range of topics.

reporting we provide to our clients, particularly online, 
where video is challenging the written word in popularity.  

 
During the course of this year, our managers shared  
their insights through thought leadership pieces and fund 
commentaries, and also on video, which led to a surge in 

Our aim is to share our perspectives with our clients, to 
enable them to understand our thinking and use it to 
shape their own decisions. During the course of this year, 
 Knowledge. Shared 
proposition. This is aimed at providing unrivalled levels  
of thought leadership, transparency and service;  
attributes that clients tell us add the most value to  
them. Relationships with clients are being transformed 
into partnerships.  
For me, the single most important aspect  
of our history is that we were named after  
 

Andrew Formica 
Chief Executive
Strategic report
 7
Strategic report Jorge Lopez Farjeat – Santander, Mexico  
Henderson try to be in the shoes of their 
customers – they really understand what 
they’re selling, and know the best ways  
of communicating it to their customers. 
CLIENT  
FOCUS 
 What were the results of this 



products and service. 
 

testament to the tenacity of our distribution teams,  
who continued to share our knowledge of European 

that we attracted more than our share of new business 

also demonstrated the strategic success of our past 





 
or managers who joined Henderson as a result of  

As the year progressed, the diversity of our product line 




Income and Alternatives. The diversity of our product 
lines stood us in good stead in the second half of the 
year, when clients switched from high beta styles into 
more defensive investments. Our top selling Retail funds  
 
for risk, demand for income and the defensive 
characteristics of absolute return.
Our plans to diversify and balance our product lines  
are more advanced in some regions than in others.  
Our UK Retail business is the poster child in this respect, 
 
selling UK Retail funds include Henderson UK Property, 
Henderson Cautious Managed, Henderson Euro 
Selected Opportunities, Henderson European Focus, 
Henderson UK Absolute Return, Henderson Strategic 
Bond and Henderson Multi Manager Income and 
Growth. By contrast, our US Mutuals business had a  

did not have a broad enough product range to continue 

 
to broaden our US client offer, with our All Asset and 
Dividend and Income Builder funds reaching their three 
year track records in 2015, two further funds reaching 
three year track records in 2016 and an additional three 
in 2017 , including US Growth Opportunities with input 

 
our strong Retail businesses in the UK, Continental 
Europe, the US and Latin America. Our Institutional 
business made steady progress but needs global  
 

 
and Japan, as well as the UK and Continental Europe. 
 

Geneva Capital Management funds in the immediate 
aftermath of the change in ownership. Whilst this was 
 
 
closed in October. 

 
have done well this year both on an absolute basis,  
 
we have gained market share in major markets such as  
UK, European and US Retail, which reinforces my view 

Chief Executive’s review continued
Strategic report
 1Q13 4Q12 3Q12 2Q12 1Q12
747
423
833
708
1,457
581
46
188
399
107
197
113
179
196
160
296
792
110
4Q14 3Q14 2Q14 1Q14 4Q13 3Q13 2Q13
Retail 
Institutional 
1,348
2,504
2,875
1,863
1,170
902
 9
Strategic report 2014 was a year of carefully targeted organic investment 

well as strategic moves to structure our business around 
our core capabilities. 
Alternatives is an area where we are changing the shape 

of John Laing Group plc in February 2015 marked an 




crisis. Although this outcome is clearly not what we 
hoped for, we have done everything in our power to 

Elsewhere in our business, we continued to build on 
longstanding initiatives to stimulate growth. We hired 

grade credit, and emerging markets to round out our 
investment management capabilities. We built out our 
Australian operation; we refreshed our brand; and 

platform. Given the scale of new investments made this 


the cost of new teams which earn very little revenue, 
particularly in investment management, where it will 
take at least three years for them to build a track record. 
A personal area of focus for me this year has been 


to graduate recruits. It is a particular pleasure to welcome 

talented team leader, who has already made an impact 

remain the preserve of individual investment managers, 
Rob has galvanised management decision making and 

to the investment discussions. His arrival completes 
my senior team. 

Trainee Programme, part of the Investment 2020 
initiative to create more entry level opportunities into 
fund management. Henderson’s programme is aimed at 
recent graduates, school leavers and those looking for 
a career change and offers the opportunity to join us on 

completed our programme since its inception in 2010, 
and 90% of them have gone on to secure permanent 
roles within our industry. Our Trainee Programme is not 

Chief Executive’s review continued
This time last year, we articulated 
a strategy based on growth and 
globalisation. How are we doing? 
This time last year, I set out a strategy based on strong 

of which, assuming helpful markets, will be to double 
our assets under management by 2018. Publicly 

I acknowledge, but it has acted as a clear and 
effective rallying cry for everyone in Henderson. 
Doubling assets under management
2013 2018
AUM doubled
Market/FX – 4-6% p.a.
Acquisitions – 2-4% p.a.
Net new money – 6-8% p.a.
£63.7bn
Geneva Capital 
Management

play in delivering our strategy, where 
we see opportunities to accelerate 
growth. In October 2014, we completed 


manager. This was an important 

American business. Geneva brings 



international capabilities, and a 
predominantly Institutional client base 
which complements Henderson’s strong 


complements Henderson’s, and the two 
teams are already working well together 
to build a US business where the whole 
is bigger than the sum of the parts.
  Ours is an industry at risk from disruptive technology, 

youth into our workforce helps guard against these risks. 
Having launched our growth and globalisation strategy 

 

growth came through very well, despite muted  
market returns in the second half, and we maintained  
a disciplined approach to investing in our business. We 
 
I hope we will see 2014 as a pivotal year for Henderson, 

What are our priorities for 2015?

investment programme, 2015 is about delivery. Our 
strategy is clear and well embedded within our business. 
Our focus now is to deliver what we know we are 
capable of. Key to achieving this is maintaining strong 
relationships with our clients, which in turn should lead  
to high retention rates and strong new business growth. 
Our focus on investment performance is unrelenting.

• Continue to deliver for our clients – which in  
turn will drive new business and enable us to  
gain market share
• Monitor and support our new investment  
teams as they establish their track records
• Continue to build our business geographically  
• Continue to look for attractive small scale  

• Demonstrate the operating leverage in our  
business model.
We will maintain a disciplined approach to use of capital, 
and enter 2015 ready to operate without recourse to  


the level of capital buffer prescribed by the Board,  

capital. Once a robust capital position is achieved, I look 

• fund organic growth and globalisation
• supplement organic growth with value  

• increase returns to shareholders.
What are the key risks to  
delivering our strategy? 
I am often asked about the key risks to the success  
of our strategy. We manage risks within our business 

Chaloner reports in his section starting on page  
36, but I am also very conscious of the potentially 

notably markets and regulation. 
 
in the latter months of 2014 is likely to be a persistent 
feature in 2015, as markets adjust to disruptive changes 
in the economic and political landscape. This is a year  


elections taking place in the major economies, against  

parties in many countries.  
On the positive side, central banks remain focused on 
sustaining the global recovery and with the drag from 
 
oil price providing further support, 2015 could be a year 
of positive growth surprises, after four years of growth 
downgrades. This is a year for active investment 
managers to make their mark. 
Regulatory change continues to challenge us, and it is 

and track record to navigate the regulatory landscape 
carefully. The implications of unbundling research from 
dealing commissions as part of MiFID II in Europe are 
still being worked through, and represent the greatest 
regulatory challenge for us at present.
Outlook for 2015 and beyond
We enter 2015 with good momentum, knowing that  
we are gaining market share in our major markets.  

organic growth, principally from our current diverse 
product range, but increasingly from new initiatives  

Key to our success in 2015 and beyond is staying true  
to our clients and true to our brand, encapsulated in  
the Knowledge. Shared brand proposition. Throughout 
this Annual Report, we have showcased portraits of  
our current clients as well as that of our founding  

importance we attribute to the views of our clients.  
This unrelenting focus on the client is central to our  
80 year history, and remains key to our future success. 
I would like to conclude by thanking all of the Henderson 
team for their hard work this year, our shareholders  
for their support, and our clients for trusting us with  
their money. 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
 11
Strategic report Business model
How we generate and preserve value over the long term
Clients allocate money – either their own or money 
they manage for their clients – to Henderson to 

prospectus. We measure these monies as assets 
under management – AUM. Our AUM increases 


performance, and currency movements. 


Our clients pay a management fee, which is 
usually represented as a percentage of the client’s 
money we manage. In addition, Henderson may 
receive a performance fee from clients when our 
managers deliver strong investment performance. 
Henderson’s management and performance fees 
are sourced from a diverse range of investment 
strategies, which contribute to the sustainability 
of our business model.  
The resources which Henderson deploys to 
manage clients’ money constitute our cost base.  

stringent cost discipline to our business, while at 
the same time making sure we have the right 
remuneration arrangements in place to attract 

our business in a careful and targeted manner. 
This balance between cost discipline, reward 

of our business. 
We generate value for our shareholders by 
delivering sustained revenue growth, a function 
of our distribution activities, strong investment 
performance and our decisions to invest to grow 
our business. Our business model is scalable, 
which means that earnings growth should follow 
revenue growth. A high proportion of our earnings 
convert into cash, which we then distribute to 
shareholders, usually via ordinary dividends. 
As our capital position strengthens, we will have 

fund organic growth and globalisation, supplement 

and increase returns to shareholders.


needs through the deployment of our resources, relationships 
and business processes to generate sustained value for all of 

Clients and their end customers Our resources and relationships
People: Investment management 
expertise, client relationship management
Product: Diverse product range: 
European Equities, Global Equities, 
Global Fixed Income, Multi-Asset, Alternatives
Services: Distribution and client service, 
administration, reporting, risk management
Brand: an attractive, aspirational brand centred 
around the proposition of Knowledge. Shared
Financial resources: Capital, seed investing, 
investing in infrastructure and people, disciplined 
acquisitions, joint ventures and disposals
 professionals, private investors 
and institutional investors. 
The roles of different market 
practitioners vary across the 
globe, and we adapt our client 
relationships accordingly.
Read more about our clients on page 26
12  What we are known for
Asset management business models tend to be 
fairly similar. T o give a sense of what differentiates 
Henderson, here are the factors for which we 

• 
management by investment managers with 

unconstrained by a house view, overlaid 
with a strong risk management focus
• 
client needs such as income generation, 
capital appreciation and preservation, 

• Successful track records in both traditional 
and alternative investment styles
• Strong investment performance across 
a diverse product range
• Well established global footprint in Retail 
markets including a top 10 position in the UK
• 
• Attractive place to work. 
T o deliver our strategy of growth and globalisation, 

in global, high capacity investment styles and 

Read about our capabilities on page 28
Outcomes
•   Clients
 – Strong investment 
performance
 –
Read more about our distribution 
and client service on page 24
• Shareholders
 –
 –
 – Capital returns achieved 
through growth

• Employees
 – Attractive career prospects
 – Competitive remuneration 

 –
a growing business
Read more about our people on page 34
 13
Strategic report Our strategy
How?
Across all of our strategic initiatives, our focus is on
 performance and service  
to our clients
Shape our global product offering  
to meet the current and future 
needs of our clients
Our strategy is focused primarily  
on our clients, on understanding 
and meeting their investment 
requirements and serving them 
responsibly, wherever they are  
in the world.
We deploy our expertise across our 
 innovative investment opportunities  
for our clients, and provide products 
which consistently meet their current 
and future needs.
2014 progress
• Investment performance  
remained strong, with 83%  
of funds outperforming on  
a three year basis
• Continued investment in  
 Customer Interests Programme 
and embedding the fair treatment  
 business model
• Global rebrand, to support client 
 the power of Knowledge. Shared
• Continued to invest in our core 
capabilities, with key team hires  
in US investment grade credit,  
Asian equities, emerging  
markets credit and equities,  
all to Institutional quality
• Broadened our product range, 
launching funds including 
International Long/Short Equity,  
US Growth Opportunities,  
Global Fixed Income Total  
Return and Global Commodities 
Enhanced Index
Priorities for 2015 and beyond
• Continued focus on investment 
performance across a broader 
range of investment styles
• Ensure that customer interest 
enhancements are thoroughly 
embedded in normal course  
of business
• Targeted marketing initiatives 
to support client-focused  
themes and events
• Continue to globalise our  
product range, launching  
successful products in new 
wrappers to broaden their reach
• Create products to meet client 
demand for global income, capital  
appreciation and preservation  

We aim to deliver a sustained period of organic growth, attracting net new client 




Doubling assets 
under management
2013 2018
AUM doubled
Market/FX – 4-6% p.a.
Acquisitions – 2-4% p.a.
Net new money – 6-8% p.a.
£63.7bn
14  providing world-class service to our clients
Diversify our global business We have ambitious plans for growth,  
and are expanding our investment 
management and distribution reach to 
deliver value to a broader client base.
Our operating model is designed to  
meet client needs, attract and retain 
 growth. We aim to build operating 
leverage and capital strength.
• Acquired Geneva Capital Management 
to boost our investment management 
capability in US equities and our  
US Institutional distribution
• Broadened our distribution reach  
in Continental Europe, Asia, the  
US and Australia
• Strengthened our investment 
management in the US and Australia
• Strengthened Institutional distribution 
outside the UK
• Disciplined investment in key  
growth opportunities 
• Upgraded our infrastructure platforms 
 • Achieved a regulatory capital surplus 
without the need for a waiver from 
consolidated supervision
• Achieved leverage through  
scale, with 15 Retail funds over  
£1bn of AUM
• Continue to diversify our US business 
notably through the integration of 
Geneva Capital Management
• Broaden our Institutional  
client base beyond our current UK 
concentration
• Grow our presence in Australia in  
both Institutional and Retail channels
• Develop our emerging markets 
expertise to complete our global 
investment reach
• Focus on improving operating margins 
after a period of targeted investment
• Disciplined use of mergers  
and acquisitions to supplement  
organic growth
• Disciplined capital management to 
build an appropriate capital buffer 
• Continue to invest in infrastructure
Strategic report
Read about the risk we actively 
manage to ensure our strategy 
remains on track on page 36
Read about how we measure 
the success of our strategy  
in our KPIs on page 18
Read our Directors’ 
remuneration report for  
an understanding of how we 
reward people for the success 
of our strategic goals
GROWTH AND
GLOBALISATION
 15
Strategic report Guiding principles
The success of our strategy begins with the way  
in which our people operate – tenaciously sticking  
to Henderson’s key behaviours.
Collaboration: 
We believe in working together and sharing 
 force of the whole company.
Conviction: 
We demand passion, belief and energy from our 
people. We have no house style to constrain the 
expertise of our investment professionals. 
Responsibility: 
 from taking personal and collective responsibility, 
always in the service of our clients’ needs. 
Our people are discussed in detail on page 34
16  Craig Baker — Phoenix Group 
Henderson’s key philosophy of  
good client service and investment 
performance comes through in the 
relationship we have with them. 
Strategic report
CLIENT 
FOCUS 
Strategic report
 17 Key performance indicators
We measure our strategic and operational progress through  

Performance indicator Our strategy 2014 performance
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)
With our clients’ needs at the heart  
of everything we do, we continue  
 
of our clients and their customers  
and to embed the fair treatment  
 
business model.
Embedding is measured using 
monthly management information  

 
FCA TCF outcomes.
Key customer focused initiatives  

• 2nd annual Staff Survey
1
 on our 
performance in achieving our client 
goals showed an improvement in 

areas across the UK business
• The Henderson Customer Panel  
was established to gather feedback 
from UK retail direct investors
• Major enhancements to TCF 
management information, reporting 
and governance structure
Investment performance over 1 and 3 years (%)
Strong investment performance 
underpins our growth strategy,  
our reputation and our ability to 
attract net new money from clients.  
We measure the percentage of our 

metric over 1 and 3 years to 
monitor our performance. 
• At the end of 2014, 66% of  
funds had outperformed over  
1 year and 83% over 3 years, 
demonstrating consistently strong 
investment performance
• Investment performance was strong 
across all of our core capabilities


indicator of the success of our 
strategy and are a key driver of 

 
are investment performance, 
distribution and client service, the 
success of our product offering  
in meeting client needs, and our 
strategy to globalise our business, 

• 
•  
driven by our Retail business which 

• 

geographical base
• 
strong investment performance across 
an increasingly diverse product range
Outcome 1
Culture
Outcome 2
Products
Outcome 3
Information
Outcome 4
Advice*
Outcome 5
Performance
Outcome 6
Barriers
2014 RAG count (months)
Achieved In progress Yet to be achieved
2
0
4
6
8
10
12
*    Whilst Henderson does not give advice, we recognise our 
responsibilities as a product provider in satisfying ourselves  
that products we develop are being sold in line with our 

45
55
65
75
85
2014 2013 2012 2011 201 0
1 year 3 years % of assets at/exceeding relevent metric over:
 -1 0
-5
0
5
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
  Strategic report
Performance indicator Our strategy 2014 performance
Fee margins (bps)
2
Fee margins are under constant 
pressure across our industry – from 
clients, intermediaries, competitors 
and regulators. Our average fee 
margin is a strong indicator of our 
ability to adapt and respond to 
these pressures, by delivering the 
right product at the right price to  
our clients, globally. 
• Management fee margin increased  
to 57 .8bps driven by strong retail  

margin products including SICAVs
• T otal fee margin decreased slightly  
to 7 4.3bps, impacted by the fall  
in performance fees from the  
high in 2013 
• 
at 26.9bps, highlighting our ability  

Compensation ratio and operating margin (%)
2
Our ability to deliver value to our 
clients and shareholders depends 
on achieving the right balance 
between investing in the growth  
of our business, rewarding and 
retaining our staff and operating 

us to monitor this balance. 
• Compensation ratio reduced from 
45.4% in 2013 to 44.7% in 2014, 
despite an1 1% increase in total staff 
compensation  
• We delivered an operating margin of 
35.5% in 2014 which is broadly in line 
with 2013 (35.7%). 2014 was a peak 
year for investment, but we maintained 
cost discipline as market volatility 
increased in the second half of 2014

2
Earnings per share on continuing 

of our ability to deliver sustainable, 
 
basis, and deliver value to  
our shareholders. 
• Diluted earnings per share on 

14.7p in 2014, up from 13.0p in 2013
• The key driver of this growth is the 
13% increase in continuing underlying 

rate and weighted average number  

2014 2013 2012 2011 201 0
0
20
40
60
80
Total fee margin Management fee margin Net margin
2014 2013 2012 2011 201 0
0
5
10
15
20
Basic Diluted
0
15
30
45
60
2014 2013 2012 2011 201 0
Compensation ratio Operating margin
 
 19
Strategic report Financial review
Financial performance
2014 has been a successful year for Henderson.
We delivered strong investment performance for our clients, grew  
our client base, and invested in our business to make progress 
towards our strategic goals of growth and globalisation. In a world  



 


 
on the level reported in 2013.
As we invested across the business in areas including investment 
management, client relationships, marketing and technology, we saw 

we maintained cost discipline and delivered a 35.5% operating 
margin, which is one of our key measures of performance.


 volatile. Management fee margin moved up slightly to 57 .8bps, with 
 
in combination with our strong investment performance, are the key 
drivers for revenue growth. As mentioned, we remained vigilant on 
costs and despite a rise in total compensation, we saw a reduction  
in our compensation ratio from 45.4% in 2013 to 44.7% in 2014. 
Diluted continuing underlying EPS increased by 13% to14.7 pence, 

Selected KPIs (continuing) 2014
 £187.8m
 £7.1bn
3 year investment outperformance 83%
Management fee margin 57.8bps
Operating margin 35.5%
Compensation ratio 44.7%
Diluted EPS 14.7p


Opening AUM  
1 Jan 14


Market/ 
FX
 
disposals
Closing AUM  
31 Dec 14
Retail 39,253 6,810 1,919 (1,975) 46,007
Institutional 35,983 328 2,132 (3,288) 35,155
Total 75,236 7,138 4,051 (5,263) 81,162


strengthened our product offering, enhanced our global distribution 
and delivered strong investment performance. 
The Group completed a number of transactions this year, notably  
the property transactions resulting in a 40% joint venture with 
 sale of our 50% holding in Intrinsic Cirilium to Old Mutual, which have 


increased by 16%.

net new money growth of 1 1%, demonstrating that we are well 
positioned in terms of our key products and capabilities. 
AUM by product
Retail 46,007
UK OEIC/Unit Trusts/Other 20,615
SICAVs 14,171
US Mutuals 6,005
Investment Trusts 5,216
Institutional 35,155
Total 81,162
Flows have been primarily driven by our Retail business this year,  
but there has been an improvement in our Institutional business 

geographical base. We were pleased that we continued to capture 

market volatility increased and investor sentiment changed. 
 
 
 
and revenues through delivering 
performance for clients and 
demonstrated a commitment  

Roger Thompson 

  strategies. This slowing was also apparent across our SICAV  
range, where we observed a rotation away from growth orientated 
strategies and into more defensive and absolute return products.
Over the course of the year, we continued to take market share 
across our key markets and have made positive steps towards the 

Income drivers
FY14 
£m
FY13

Income
Management fees 403.5 331.9
Other income 32.5 34.9
Performance fees 82.8 94.5
Net fee income from continuing operations 518.8 461.3
Income from associates and joint ventures 5.1 1.8
Finance income 10.1 10.2
Net income from continuing operations 534.0 473.3
Fee margins
 
slightly in 201 4 to 57 .8bps, an increase of 1.5bps on 201 3 (56.3bps).  
Over recent years, we have observed some pricing pressure and in 

products, including UK OEICs, SICAVs and US Mutuals, to help 
offset this pressure. Fee margins for our Institutional business  

Management fees
 
 
and good investment performance. 
Performance fees
Our consistently strong investment performance with 66% and  
83% of our funds outperforming on a 1 year and 3 year basis 
respectively, has helped maintain a strong level of performance fees. 

 high achieved in 2013 when market growth was very strong. The 
chart highlights our ability to generate performance fees from a 
 
to continue to earn fees in the year ahead. In 2014, we saw good 
relative growth in performance fees from our Offshore Absolute 
Return fund range, whilst across SICAVs, Institutional and UK  
OEICs we observed a small decrease in the proportion of 
performance fees generated. 
Other income
 
majority of this income is attributable to our general administration  
charge for which we implemented a policy change in August 2013.  
The policy change resulted in a reduced rate which had a full  
year impact in 2014.
Performance fees
SICAVs 22%
Offshore 
absolute return  46% 
Institutional clients 12%
UK OEICs 10%
Investment trusts 8%
Other 2%

FY14
£m
FY13 
(restated)

Expenses
 88.4 80.6
 143.6 128.8
 232.0 209.4
 102.6 87 .3
Total operating expenses from continuing 
operations 334.6 296.7
 11.6 1 1.1
Total expenses from continuing operations 346.2 307 .8

As we progress towards delivering our growth and globalisation 
strategy, it should be noted that 2014 was the peak year for 
 


 


investment in areas including marketing and technology and  



 
 



repayable in March 2016.


 



previously capitalised investment management contracts, although 
this year they have been more than offset by the gain on disposal of 

 21
Strategic report Financial review continued

 
 
 
 
 
 
relating to prior years.
TH Real Estate
On 1 April 2014, the Group completed the transactions with 
 
the Group taking a 40% share in the TH Real Estate joint  
venture. In the nine months to 31 December 2014, TH Real  
 
recognised in income from associates and joint ventures.
Geneva Capital Management
 





strengthened our institutional distribution capabilities and client  

across this channel.

performance and integration. We have had positive engagement with 
clients, with the vast majority consenting to the transaction but have 
 
31 December 2014 which includes the impact of the termination  

In December, we launched the US Growth Opportunities Fund,  
 
US Mutuals business and will help to accelerate our growth.


 
 
 
dealing accounts, restricted cash and cash held in structured  


The increase in net cash was moderated as we invested in our 

capital into new fund launches including total return bond funds  
in the US and Australia.

The Group is subject to regulatory oversight and inspection by the 
FCA and other international regulatory bodies. The Group ensures  
it is compliant with its regulatory obligations at all times. In 201 1,  
 
 
is valid until April 2016. The regulatory capital surplus of the Group 
 

During 2014, we continued to monitor the Group’s capital position 
without recourse to the aforementioned waiver. We have made 


that, based on our calculations, we now operating with a surplus  

1
 as at 31 December 2014.
Pension schemes
 

Group Pension Scheme, and there are three smaller unapproved 

mainly as a result of higher returns from the scheme assets.
Dividends
The Board declared an interim dividend of 2.60 pence per share  

share, bringing the total dividends for 2014 to 9.00 pence per  
 
on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2015.  
We will continue to maintain a progressive dividend policy, with the  

for 2015 in line with business performance and outlook.
Roger Thompson

 22  CLIENT 
 FOCUS 
We have a very good level of activity, 
proving that there is good interaction 
between our clients, us as an intermediary 
and Henderson as a provider. 
 
Aymeric de Poncins — BNP Paribas
Strategic report
 23 Distribution and client service


present day, because we must never forget whose money we look 
after. The Annual Report also showcases our refreshed brand, which 
we launched globally in 2014. In the course of the year, we updated 
the look and feel of our written materials, advertising and websites; 
positioned Henderson as a sophisticated and aspirational company 
to an increasingly institutionalised target market; and began to live 
and develop our core brand proposition – Knowledge. Shared. 
Prominent throughout Henderson is the mantra that our clients’ 
needs are at the heart of everything we do. We continue to strive to 


model. We have an active client engagement programme that helps 
us improve our understanding of client needs through our research 
programme, enabling us to directly feed back into both product 
design and literature the views of our customers. This in turn allows 
us to ensure that not only do clients get the products that are most 
suitable for them, but they also get updates and communications 
in a format that suits them.


of their underlying clients. In Retail, the direct customer feedback 
though our surveys enabled us to launch guides to help with 
understanding of certain products, such as absolute return and 
bond investing. As I write, we are working on a guide to charging 
which our clients have highlighted they would like more clarity on.


of our investment processes. Investment performance has remained 



progress we have made across our core capabilities on page 28.
Our distribution and client service operation
Distribution and client service at Henderson sits at the centre of 
our business, and comprises sales, marketing, investment and client 
communications, client service, product strategy and development 
and brand management – 27% of our staff across 14 locations 
worldwide. Our distribution capabilities are critical to the success 
of our strategy.
Distribution strategy
Our strategy of growth and globalisation was described in detail 
on page 14.
Our distribution strategy, which I outlined to the investment community 


Performance, and the perception of performance, 
 Consistently strong investment performance is critically important to 
clients. Once you have established a reputation and a brand associated 
with strong performance, this will strengthen the loyalty of clients.
Global product development is a key success driver
Product development is about creating options to respond to client 

successful. We operate a disciplined global process, which helps 
us prioritise systematically, allocate our resources, back our winners 
and cut initiatives if they prove irrelevant to our clients.

believable image. I am delighted with the progress we have 
made this year, principally with our updated brand. The feedback 
has been universally positive with the new website winning 
a number of awards.
Distribution structure is based around client types


dealing with, and what clients’ needs are and why, and are able 
to deliver tailored levels of service.


functions and across the globe and now have the strongest 
distribution team I have ever worked with in nearly 30 years – 
dedicated to Henderson’s clients and servicing their needs.
We have an active client engagement 
programme that helps us improve our 
understanding of client needs, enabling 
us to directly feed back the views of 
our customers into both product design 

Phil Wagstaff
Global Head of Distribution
24  Teamwork and collaboration are critical in 
a global market
We have reinforced these behaviours in our compensation 
schemes because in distribution teams there is a direct link between 
compensation and output. We have introduced globally consistent, 
discretionary compensation wherever local market practice allows, 

distribution strategy. 
We invest in our core franchises

Key client themes
The diagram overleaf describes who our clients are, globally. 
This time last year, I described the key themes which we saw 

these themes had a number of years to run. The majority of 

on these themes, including how we have been developing our 
competitive position to take advantage of these opportunities.
Search for income
With low returns on cash savings combined with demographic trends, 


During 2014, we broadened the appeal of our highly successful 


European, Asian and South American investors. We have continued 

income products, with the launch of an emerging market corporate 

US and global high yield funds.




investors an income on their capital. In 2014, dividends from 
companies worldwide reached a record US$1.2 trillion. 
Case study
Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond Fund is just one 

Launched in 2009, the fund was a new idea and franchise 
for Henderson, to be marketed primarily in Europe. The 


201 1 through 2013 saw high client interest in credit funds 


communications. This increased level of marketing drove the 


The Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond Fund is now 

over the past three years and one of the top 10 funds in 
terms of asset size with a market share of just over 2%.
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
£
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
%
Dec 09 Dec 10 Jun 10 Jun 11 Jun 12 Jun 13 Jun 14 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14
€m
Assets Fund performance (net return)
Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond Fund performance and asset growth
Strategic report
 25 Distribution and client service continued
Globalisation
We continue to see investors, retail and institutional, survey the global 
marketplace when searching for the best returns rather than being 
constrained by their domestic market. This is manifesting itself 


Resources. We have continued to invest in all of these strategies 
in 2014. We believe the reduction in allocations to global emerging 
markets is temporary, and have used the lull in demand as an 
opportunity to build our teams, recruiting new heads of Emerging 

Absolute return

return products – products designed to have low correlations to 

positive market returns through the investment cycle. Low returns 
on cash and bonds are driving demand for higher returns without 

of this through both our onshore and offshore fund ranges and 

such as agriculture and commodities. We have a strong 

awards such as Best Overall Group at the Hedge Fund Review 
European Performance Awards. We were also delighted to 

US$1bn in AUM during this year. 

Retail Institutional
• Wire houses
• Wholesale 
platforms
• Registered 
investment 
advisers
• State 
pension funds 
• Corporate 
pension funds

Latin America
Retail Institutional
• Banks
• Discretionary 
wealth managers
• 
pension funds

UK
Retail Institutional
• Financial 
advisers
• Platforms
• Discretionary 
wealth managers
• Private investors
• Local authority 
pension funds
• Corporate 
pension funds
• Institutions

Continental Europe
Retail Institutional
• Platforms
• Banks 
• Insurance 
companies
• Discretionary 
wealth managers
• Local authority 
pension funds
• Corporate 
pension funds
• Institutions
• Sovereign 
wealth funds

Asia
Retail Institutional
• Banks
• Distribution 
partnerships
• Discretionary 
wealth managers
• Private banks
• Pension funds
• Institutions
• Sovereign 
wealth funds

Australia
Retail Institutional
• Banks 
• Platforms
• Financial 
advisers
• Super funds
• Self managed 
superannuation 
funds
• Institutions
• Charities

Henderson’s global clients
Institutionalisation of the fund buying process
As I highlighted last year, one of the main changes resulting from 

private banking across the globe is that the process of fund selection 
in the retail marketplace is now much more rigorous and akin to the 

research by fund panels and investment committees the world over. 

strategies have stringent processes behind them with an overlay 
 type of buyer.

As a result of increasingly institutionalised fund buying, combined 

bigger brands and funds, there has been an increasing amount 

12 months to December 2014, the top 1% of global funds attracted 

one percentile. 
We are in a ‘winner takes all’ market. This is a trend which we 
recognise and have built into our distribution strategy, ensuring we 
support the marketing of prospective winners but also being bold 
enough to reduce activity when a strategy does not gain traction. 



In the UK, our Property fund now holds the coveted number one slot.
26  A key theme in the UK and an increasing trend globally is the  
desire to outsource a combination of asset allocation and stock or 

solutions strategies, and Henderson has been at the forefront of  
 

on Institutional as well as Retail clients.
The one key theme which I highlighted last year which did not  
remain current throughout all of 2014 was global demand for 

remains an important theme in the longer term and Henderson 
remains very well placed for a future turnaround, with one of the 
strongest European teams of any asset manager. It was also 
pleasing to see Henderson continue to gain market share of net 


record in this area. 

 
our distribution capabilities. Here are the key elements of our 

Recognising and nurturing our core franchises



of products including Henderson UK Property, Henderson Cautious 
Managed, Henderson European Focus, Henderson European 
Selected Opportunities, Henderson UK Absolute Return, Henderson 
Multi Manager Income and Growth and Henderson Strategic Bond. 
 
As the Chairman mentions in his opening remarks, we are privileged 
to have a 50 year track record in investment trusts, which we can 

such as Europe and Latin America. 
Making sure we are well resourced with talented 
people in growth markets
The two markets where we have seen most progress this year  
 

products for the institutional market and is starting to build a retail 
presence. Our Australian commodities funds are starting to build 



Henderson’s Institutional presence in the US, complementing our 
 
to other funds around the globe in due course. 
Globalising the product suite
Key developments this year include building track records in  

product range. We are continuing the evolution towards a global 
asset management business and have hired new investment talent 
which will provide our clients with new investment capabilities, 

 

Rebranding the business and increasing our 
marketing impact
 
we have also increased our direct client contact with a record 
number of client events.

elements. Additionally, we see opportunities to grow our retail 
networks in Continental Europe and Latin America, and we  
have more work to do in Asia. 
People often ask me to characterise Henderson’s competitive 
 
We all rely on essentially the same elements – investment 
performance; the right people, products and relationships; a strong 
client service ethic; and a respected brand. What tends to mark  
 
the progress Henderson has made this year on behalf of our clients, 
and believe we have the people, products and processes we need  
to continue to deliver to our clients. 
Henderson understands 
what we want of the 
mandate we have given 
them, including the level 
of contact, and I put them 
in the top decile for that 
understanding. 
 
Martin Jones –  
Independent trustee
 27
Strategic report Our core capabilities

manage people, allocate resources and contribute to 
the strategic direction of the Group, while keeping client 
interests at the heart of what we do. As CIO, I provide 
leadership to the investment teams, facilitating the 
activity of fund managers rather than dictating my  
view of the world to them.
T eams are free to follow individual investment processes 
at Henderson. We deliberately employ passionate, 
intelligent investment professionals, who can work  
in teams. There is no point, therefore, in giving fund 
managers responsibility only to shackle them with  
a house view that could drive out the very creativity  
that has led to success and that our clients want from 
Henderson. We balance independence with robust 
investment processes, strong governance and an 
impactful Risk team. 
When I joined in April 2014, I set about getting to  
know the business and developing strong relationships 

Throughout the year, I sought to bring focus and  
 
of projects, including product development and 
infrastructure, and to address those few areas where  
 


where we have been developing products that harness 

skills in the retail arena. 

increase so I have also built a team around me with 

in areas such as risk and infrastructure are invaluable  
in helping to share the challenge of overseeing the 
Investment Management function.



 

every person can and must make a difference. 
In 2014, we selectively invested in strengthening the 


team in the US to provide strength in investment grade 
bonds and have brought on board an Emerging Markets 
Credit team so we can provide comprehensive global 

across the platform, hiring Glen Finegan in emerging 
markets and Andrew Gillan in Asia.
Performance overall has been good so it would be unfair 
to single out one area when 83% of our funds have met 

acknowledging aggregate success it is also important 
that we ameliorate those pockets that can do better.  
Part of my role is to ensure fund managers have the 
support they need and if they underperform, that we 
understand why. It also means putting in place measures 
to improve, so we can continue to communicate our 

In 2015, my priority is to maintain good investment 
performance for our clients. Beyond this, I will be looking 
at how we can develop our Institutional business in 


Henderson’s business and we are now in a position to 
manage more. Last but by no means least, we will 
continue to prioritise the integration and embedding of 


We balance independence with robust 
investment processes, strong governance  

Robert Gambi 

  once again came to the fore in a year that was beset 

sentiment towards the Eurozone was initially strong in 
the early part of the year, this began to fade by the 


trade caused by sanctions on Russia – led to concerns 


European Central Bank would support the economy  
with additional monetary easing, through measures such  
 

This somewhat contradictory environment played into  

only because investors tend to gravitate towards asset 
managers with an established track record during times 
of uncertainty, but also because the Henderson team has 
been consistent in its message that European corporate 
success need not be dictated by a company’s domicile  
or domestic economy. 
The team spent the year carefully analysing companies 
against the framework of the continuously shifting 
macroeconomic backdrop. The combination of rigorous 



benchmark or peer group over a one or three year 
period
1


over one year. The one area that lagged during 2014  
was our smaller companies fund range, which was 
affected by economic uncertainty, prompting investors  
to rotate towards larger companies.



that was aided by the willingness of our fund managers 
to engage with clients and highlight the relative value 





Euroland Fund, was particularly busy, attending events  
 
an approach that focuses on corporate fundamentals 
and cancels out market noise can pay dividends over  
the long term. 


managed by Stephen Peak, which was the number one 
selling fund in the Europe stock sector in the US, with 

European Focus Fund doubled in size over the year to 

Europe Fund grew by €767m to more than €2.5bn, while 
Henderson’s largest fund, the Henderson Horizon Pan 


contributing to a fund size of €3.5bn. The strong net 



Leveraging the skillset
Given the volatility in markets, there was considerable 
interest in conviction strategies that focus on identifying 
a relatively concentrated portfolio of companies with  
the potential to outperform the broader market. This is a 

Henderson European Focus Fund. During the year, this 
fund won the Money Observer Awards 2014 Best Larger 
Europe Fund. Its sister fund in the investment trust space 
– the Henderson European Focus Trust – won European 

and Best European Investment Trust at the Investment 
Week Investment Company of the Y ear Awards 2014. 
Given the level of interest, the trust was able to raise an 


clients encouraged Henderson to launch the AlphaGen 
European Best Ideas Fund in July as a US onshore  

unconstrained portfolio of around 35 stocks which has 

strategy can be applied across multiple investment 
vehicles allowing a broader range of investors to access 
Henderson’s investment management capabilities. 

European  
Equities AUM
Strategic report
£
15.3bn
Euro 

Perseverance pays. 
In November 2011, 
we launched the 
Henderson Horizon 
Euroland Fund, 
arguing that the 
Eurozone offered 
value for investors. 
In each of the  
last three calendar 
years, the fund  

quartile performance, 
which, together with 

has enabled  
the fund to grow  
to more than 
€600m in size.
 29
Strategic report Our core capabilities continued

covering all the major regions and market capitalisation 
sizes as well as having strengths in specialist areas, 
such as technology and funds with an environmental 
and ethical focus. This means Henderson can offer funds 
and mandates that act as both the core of a portfolio 
or provide a thematic or strategic role in asset allocation. 



although the journey was punctuated by periods of 
volatility. Developed markets were generally strong 
but several emerging markets struggled against the 
headwinds of weakening commodity prices and a 

within our own emerging markets funds as Latin America 




any fund in the IMA China/Greater China sector. 

capability, 58% and 78% of Henderson funds over one 

their benchmark
1
.

Henderson has been clear about its ambition to grow the 
capability globally. During 2014, Andrew Gillan, based in 

from Aberdeen Asset Management, where he had built 


investment talent, we relocated a number of our Asian 


by recruiting Glen Finegan, who had built a strong track 
record at First State. 

Management. This brought more than US$5bn in 

which, together with a large institutional client base, 

Utilising the investment talent at Geneva, we launched 
the Henderson US Growth Opportunities Fund. We also 


fund that resonates with US investors who want to 

Our Institutional business continued to record mandate 
wins and it was encouraging to see a geographical 
spread. In the US, we gained fresh mandates for 

a challenging year for the strategy. In Japan, there 
was demand for Japanese Small Caps.
Doing well by doing good
Henderson’s sustainable and responsible investment 

performance across the range for the year, 
demonstrating that sustainability can translate into 
strong investment returns. The team has worked 

a greater appreciation of Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) factors in their credit analysis, 


highlighted the corporate cost of unethical behaviour.

Given the ongoing decline in bond yields and the meagre 

as a source of income continued to grow. Henderson’s 
established reputation in this area meant we were in a 



for European and Asian investors, we launched a SICAV 


mutual funds, Henderson is a formidable force in the 

For The City of London Investment Trust, it was another 
year of superlatives, with the trust retaining the 
investment trust industry record for the longest 
consecutive increase in annual dividends – 48 years. 

investors were eager to gain access to the portfolio. 

trend as investors seek to diversify their sources of 
income and adjust to a world of structurally low interest 
rates. The demographics of an ageing world also mean 

together with the potential for capital growth makes 
it a vital building block for retirement portfolios and an 
important growth area for Henderson. 

Global 
Equities AUM
£
25.7bn
Reaping 
dividends
In 2014, we 
launched the 
Henderson Global 
Dividend Index, 
which provides 
granular information 
on the growth 
of dividends in 
different parts of the 
world each quarter. 
This initiative 
demonstrates 
our desire to share 
knowledge as 
well as acting as 
a powerful source 
of publicity, 
generating global 
press coverage 
and establishing 
our brand in 
equity income.
   


of skills from forecasting likely interest rate direction  
to detailed analysis of the creditworthiness of a bond 
issuer. T o facilitate this, the business is broadly split  

• Secured Credit: This covers assets such as  

products. These assets tend to be higher yielding and 
 
to clients concerned about a rise in interest rates
• Government Bonds and Rates: This area  
of the business focuses on government bond 
 
as providing analysis of interest rate products
• Corporate Credit: This is split between a UK  
Retail business that invests primarily in credit 
(corporate bonds) but has scope to invest across the 

•  This area focuses  

Investment Strategy Group, and draws upon the  

Diverging markets
2014 was characterised by divergence, both in terms  
of asset class performance and monetary policy. In one 
camp were the US and UK central bankers hinting at 
tighter monetary policy if their economies remained 
robust. In the other were the central bankers of Japan 
and the Eurozone, both of which, prompted by domestic 
economic weakness, undertook further monetary easing. 
The prospect of central bank bond purchases, together 

to falling yields on investment grade bonds. High yield 
and emerging market debt struggled in the second  
 
the strength of the US dollar. 
In terms of performance, 60% and 80% of funds  
over one and three years respectively were meeting or 

1
. This was down on last year 
over both timeframes, primarily because those funds that 

strategies were positioned for weaker government bond 
markets than turned out to be the case. 
Performance elsewhere was broadly good. The UK 

 
within telecoms, enabling the Henderson Strategic Bond  
 
 
an investment company managed by the same team, 

2014, primarily through a number of share issues. 
Within the pure credit business, there was increased 

on credit analysis to build portfolios without reference  

and target return. These mandates are held for the long 

yield product suite also performed well, despite the 
challenging market backdrop, with the Henderson 


Secured Credit, there was demand for Secured Loans 




Globalisation in practice
The Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond Fund 
demonstrates the ongoing globalisation of our range. 

was launched in December 2009 and has since built  
an outstanding track record. Client interest soared in  
its third year and in 2014 the fund attracted more than 
 
At the Investment Europe Awards held in Milan in 

Looking to replicate this success, over the last couple of 
years we have launched high yield funds from the same 
 
of the credit team in the US. During 2014, we brought  
on board two investment grade specialists to join the  
US credit team based in Philadelphia. T ogether with the 
recruitment of an Emerging Market Credit team, this 
enabled us to launch two new global funds – the 
Henderson Horizon Emerging Market Corporate Bond 
Fund and the Henderson Horizon Global Corporate 
Bond Fund. Within the total return strategy, we launched 
an Australian mutual fund to stand alongside the 
European and US versions of the T otal Return Bond 

without a benchmark constraint. 

credit fundamentals are broadly supportive but the 
prospect for tighter monetary policy in the US has the 
potential to trigger volatility. In such an environment,  

capabilities and our strong risk management.

 
 £
19.2bn
Sharing 
knowledge
Both clients and 
Henderson can 
 
the sharing of 
knowledge. In 
2014, we provided 
training on the 
nature of the  
“Buy and Maintain” 
investment 
approach to clients 
of a UK pension 
scheme. This was 
very well received, 
cementing the 
relationship we  
had built and 
contributing to  
the securing of  
a credit mandate. 
 31
Strategic report Our core capabilities continued
Shaping the future

remit of any of Henderson’s investment teams. The 


using a combination of investment vehicles or directly 
held instruments to achieve the objectives of each 

from analysis of market and economic data to determine 
overall asset allocation through to an assessment of 

managers. Overlaying the entire process is careful risk 
control and analysis, with a senior member of 
Henderson’s Risk team dedicated to supporting 


number of hires and this continued into 2014, allowing 

alternatives, fund selection and investment support. The 
latter area, in particular, was boosted by the arrival of 
John Harrison as an investment director in August 2014. 


that relies heavily on strong communication of the 
investment process and strategy.
Building the proposition
We spent 2014 further educating investors about 

investors, this meant ongoing discussions with clients 




classes. Within the Retail space, we continued to 

the ongoing interest in funds that provide a combination 
of income and growth. This included presenting at the 

advisers in the UK, where we scored highest compared 
to other fund manager groups in terms of content and 
presentation. We recognise that it is early days for some 
of our newer offerings such as the Henderson Core 
Solutions range in the UK and the Henderson All 

propositions to pick up once a three year track record 
is attained.
Beyond the numbers
In terms of performance, 67% and 7 4% of our 

benchmark or peer group over one and three years 
respectively
1
. This registered an improvement on the 



unwillingness to embrace interest rate risk in the bond 
market given the historically low bond yields. This was 
disappointing because it detracted from the otherwise 


avoid an asset class that appeared to offer a poor risk 



interest in managing the Cirilium range, the 

Intrinsic. In February 2014, Old Mutual Wealth bought 
Intrinsic and it became clear that they wished to offer 
an integrated proposition to investors so it was a natural 
progression for us to sell our 50% stake to Old Mutual. 
The move allowed greater clarity for Cirilium investors 
and for Henderson to preserve its strong relationship 
with Old Mutual, which remains a valued client. 
Flows within Optimum continued to be positive and this 

the end of 2014. Optimum is a partnership approach in 

block’ portfolios that advisers draw on to construct 


Multi Manager Income and Growth Fund enjoyed net 

and growth are arguably scarce, investors were drawn 
to the fund’s objective and process. 
2014 was a year in which the core asset classes of 

is that investors tend to gravitate towards greater 

are more risk averse. Henderson has built a strong 


be well placed to meet investor needs.

Multi-Asset 
AUM
£
5.2bn
Back on 
track
The Henderson 
Value T rust plc 
mandate was 
awarded to 
Henderson in 2013 
and throughout 201 4 
we took a measured 
approach to 
stabilising the 
legacy portfolio we 
inherited from the 
previous managers, 

trust’s holdings to 


In December 201 4, 
shareholders passed 
a continuation 
vote, which means 
that the trust will 
continue for at least 
a further three years.
32  Growing recognition
Interest in absolute return and alternative strategies 

 
a historical basis and investors are looking to diversify 

comfort with alternative strategies, recognising that 


advantageous, particularly in volatile markets. 
Henderson has spent many years building its reputation 
in Alternatives, investing in manager skill as well as 
developing appropriate infrastructure, risk management 

and investment talent meant that we were in a strong 


Performance was very respectable, with 61% and  
100% of funds over one and three years respectively 

1
. Of particular 
note, the Henderson Horizon Pan European Alpha Fund 

appealed to investors who were uncertain about the 


Henderson Gartmore United Kingdom Absolute Return 
Fund attracted €786m in 2014 and its sister hedge fund 

Hedge Fund at the Hedge Funds Review Awards.  

targeted absolute return credit fund, was lacklustre after 
suffering idiosyncratic risk in a number of fund positions, 


when markets fell heavily in July and October.
We continued to add to our AlphaGen range of  
hedge funds. After dialogue with a number of clients 
revealed there was interest in a concentrated long  
book of European stocks, we launched the AlphaGen 
European Best Ideas Fund in July. It is a US onshore 
LLC, which will help to enhance our offering and 
 
allow investors to access the talents of several of  
our managers in one fund, we launched the offshore 
AlphaGen Rigel Fund. This is a high conviction, best 
 
had run since January 2013.


because the asset class offers returns that are relatively 
 
also of strategic value to Henderson in that it provides 
 
have offered a relatively good time to buy commodity 
businesses given the weakness in commodity prices  
 

team, both of which are based in Australia. 
Despite the challenging backdrop for the asset  
class, we have succeeded in growing assets under 

those in Agriculture and increasing by two thirds those  
in Commodities, which takes the combined AUM above 
US$1bn at the end of 2014. Driving this growth has 
been the good performance in both businesses  
together with the adaptability and depth of Henderson’s 
distribution infrastructure, which has allowed us to 
showcase the talent of the teams and the value within 
the asset class. The success of the business is being 
recognised independently with the AlphaGen Relative 
Value Agriculture Fund winning the Best Energy/
Commodities Hedge Fund at the Hedge Funds Review 
Awards and the Commodities and Currency Fund  
award at the Investors Choice Hedge Fund Awards.
Springboard for growth
Initially, our Alternatives business was focused around 
Cayman Islands hedge funds but over time we have 
developed our UCITS alternative funds where deeper 
regulatory oversight is a draw for European investors.  

Alternative fund in the US – the Henderson International 


Alternatives
Alternatives 
AUM
£
15.8bn

premium
Henderson’s 

grew strongly over 
201 4, with assets 
under management 
up by 49% to 
US$454m, driven by 

and the launch of a 

These strategies, 
which aim to 
generate returns  


income markets, 

banks stepping back 
from their traditional 
 
role since the 2008 

 33
Strategic report Our people
Building a global footprint
A key priority for 2014 has been building our global 


 Knowledge. Shared.  
 
the integration of the US high yield credit team based  

forward to seeing this business grow further in 2015 and 
realise wider business opportunities as a result of this 
integration. In addition, we have focused on ensuring  
a smooth integration of Geneva Capital Management 
 
the opportunity to work with our new colleagues in 
 
the US market.
In the UK, we have hired into our emerging market  

 
and bringing a new range of clients into Henderson.
A key initiative for Henderson has been the 
dissemination of our strategy through all levels of  
the organisation. This has been achieved through  
 
to ensure that each business area understands  
and can engage with our ambitions of growth and 
globalisation, and to move towards our goal of  

Embedding our behaviours
As we grow as a business and establish ourselves  
in new markets, it is critical that we do not lose sight  
of, or dilute, the guiding behaviours and principles that 
have made Henderson over the last 80 years. In 2014, 
we implemented a leadership development programme  
with our guiding principles at its heart, in order that  
we engender a commitment to these principles in the 
 
 
to ensure that the way we assess performance is  
clearly aligned to our principles.
Our people continue to be set apart by their dedication  
to working together, across the globe, to provide an 
 
to the T reating Customers Fairly philosophy and the 
implementation of our Customer Interests Programme,  
 
and regulation that puts our clients’ needs at the heart of 
everything we do. Activities include a customer interests 
survey and ensuring our employees understand their 
personal regulatory obligations through appropriate training. 
We have also developed a clearer approach to  
Corporate Responsibility. We have drawn together  
the many different ways in which we give back to  
the communities in which we operate – such as our 
longstanding involvement in the Investment 2020 
programme, our charitable giving and our support to 
Henderson employees who act as volunteers – and  
have developed clearer and consistent guidelines to 
 
will be on community engagement and how we can 
share the skills and knowledge at Henderson for the 

Engagement and retention
2014 saw a host of new talent join Henderson, but  
it was also a year of high engagement and retention  



investment professionals respectively. T urnover also 
remains low at 8%. In our 2014 employee engagement 
survey, we had an overwhelming response rate of  
91%, and an overall engagement score of 87%, which  

Also, 89% of respondents to the survey said they  
were proud to work for Henderson, and 81% of people 
envisaged working at Henderson in two years’ time.
At Henderson, we recognise that the strong 
brand and reputation we have built over the  
 
As we enter the next stage of our journey as  
a company, our people will continue to be our 
 


Kathleen Reeves 
Global Head of Human Resources
34  Length of service
<2 years 37% 
2-4 years  21% 
4-6 years 12%
6-10 years 16%
10+ years 14%
We have also begun to implement a talent strategy  
which will help us to differentiate and ultimately develop 
our key talent across all areas of the organisation.  

facilitating active knowledge sharing and building robust 
succession plans, we will effectively ‘future proof’  
our organisation by creating a strong talent pipeline  
to support organic growth.
Our Trainee Programme is a key channel through which 
we attract and engage with a diverse group of emerging 
junior talent. Initiated in 2010 by Andrew Formica, the 
scheme offers the opportunity for participants to 

company. T o date, 90% of our trainees have secured 
work in the industry with over 70% of these remaining 
at Henderson.
Turnover
1
0 5 10%
8% 2014
7% 2013
8% 2012

and development are crucial levers in the retention of  
our talent. We offer a wide range of tools for our people 
to develop themselves and continue to invest heavily in 
learning. During 2014, 316 employees completed at least 

managers completed the Management Essentials 

combined with targeted individual coaching opportunities, 
provides a cost effective way for Henderson to develop 
and retain its talent.
Training and development
Professional skills 54% 
Technical and 
client skills  28%
Management and 
leadership skills 18% 
 
2013 and 2014 calculated on amounts held by EBTs and amounts recorded on  
the Group’s personal trading system.
Another key part of our approach to retention is  
the operation of a successful performance related 
remuneration strategy that aligns our people’s own 
interests with those of our clients and shareholders.  
88% of our employees are Henderson shareholders and 
we continue to promote share ownership as it aligns our 
staff interests with those of our clients and shareholders. 
10 12% 8 6 4 2 0
2014 9%
10%
11%
10%
2013
2012
2011
Staff share ownership
2


this year also saw the creation of the Diversity and 
Inclusion Steering Group whose mission is to ensure  

diversity of our people and the communities we operate in. 
The group successfully commissioned and implemented 
a diversity survey in 201 4, the results of which will help 
management to understand better the diversity of  
our organisation and the ways in which we can adapt  
internally to support, develop and retain our people.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100%
All 
employees
ExCo
Group 
Board
Subsidiary 
Boards
922
14
8
52
 
 
64% (587) 36% (335)
79% (11) 21% (3)
75% (6) 25% (2)
85% (44) 15% (8)
Men Women
Gender diversity
Looking ahead
Our people priorities for 2015 will be to continue the 
initiatives we started in 2014, particularly in helping  
to build our people capability to facilitate growth and 

be on developing our talent and ensuring our succession 
planning is robust for the future. Maintaining our strong 
engagement levels and retention of our talent will also 
be key to our success, as they have proved to be over 
the past 80 years.
 35
Strategic report Risk management
Risk overview
Our strategic objectives and the key risks to our strategy and business model are deeply interconnected. Risk management  

When the Investment Risk team reviews 
performance with each investment manager,  
we aim to put ourselves in the client’s shoes 

Chris Chaloner 

Strategic  
priority
Risk appetite theme
Client  
and fund 
investment 
focus

stability
Group  
growth and 
performance
Operational risk People risk
Regulatory 
change
Reputational 
risk
Trust

investment performance 
and service to our clients
Shape our global product 
offering to meet the 
current and future  
needs of our clients
Diversify our  
global business

 
Lowest impact  
  
Highest impact
Risk management framework
The principle of individual accountability and 
responsibility for risk awareness and risk management  
is an important feature of our culture. Overall 
accountability for risk management lies with the  
Board which articulates the risks that the Group is  
willing to take in pursuit of its strategy through the 
Group’s risk appetite statement. The risk appetite 
statement is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis 
and covers eight main themes regarded as essential to 

• Client and fund investment focus;
• 
• Group growth and performance;
• Operational risk;
• People risk;
• Regulatory change;
• Reputational risk; and
• Trust.
In order to manage risk effectively, the Board and senior 

our risk management process aims to identify new and 
emerging risks at an early stage so that these are 
assessed alongside known and continuing risks. The 
principal risks faced by the Group, together with the 
approach to mitigating these risks to ensure that the 

described on pages 38 and 39.
The risk management framework is set out in the 
Group’s risk policy, a summary of which can be found  
on our website (www.henderson.com/IR).
36  Three lines of defence
Our framework utilises a ‘three lines of defence’ 
approach to managing risk. 

business management, who ensure the Group  
is managed in accordance with the Group’s risk  

The second line comprises the Risk and Compliance 

regulatory risks in the business and the related controls 

(CRO) reports independently of management to the 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee (BRC) and attends 
all Board, Audit Committee and BRC meetings; the  
CRO and the Risk and Compliance functions provide 
reports to each Committee meeting. 
Internal Audit is the third line of defence, providing 
independent assurance that the controls are appropriate 
and are operating effectively. Internal Audit reports 
independently to the Audit Committee.
Board Risk Committee’s principal 
activities during 2014
The BRC received risk management reports which 
addressed real and potential emerging risks, strategic 
and operational risks and topical matters such as 
 

opportunities and completed one of these – the 

The BRC reviewed and challenged the risk assessments 


in Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited to  
Old Mutual Wealth in December and this transaction  
was also subject to review, challenge and oversight  
by the BRC.
The pace of regulatory change has continued unabated 
during 2014. This included the implementation of the 
AIFMD (covering principally the Group’s Hedge Fund 

Directive IV, which changed the calculation of the Group 
 
and the derivatives related EMIR (European) and 

 
with implementing these and other evolving regulatory 
 
BRC reviews reports from the CRO that cover regulatory 
pronouncements that are pertinent for the Group’s 
business model. The Assurance function also reports  
to the BRC on any investigations into operational risks 


In 2014, there was a continued increase in the apparent 

 


into broader information technology related risks. The 
BRC also reviewed the Group’s business continuity plans 
during 2014. The Group has an Information Security 
Management Committee, which assesses, monitors  
and controls related risks including cyber crime. 
An important regular activity conducted by the Group  


 
and control environment for mitigating these risks. The 
ICAAP results in an assessment by management of the 
appropriate amount of capital to be held by the Group. 
The BRC reviews and challenges management’s 
assessments (including stress tests and reverse stress 
tests) and conclusions and makes a recommendation  

Outside the framework of formal meetings, the Chair  
of the BRC, Sarah Arkle, meets and has regular contact 
 
and the CRO.
Further information on the BRC’s role in monitoring and 
assessing the Group’s management of risk is set out in 
the risk management and oversight of internal controls 
section on page 53.
Henderson Group plc Board
Board Risk Committee Audit Committee
• Primary responsibility  
for strategy, performance 
and risk management 
lies with the Board, the 

heads of each division 
and operating business.
• Business management  
is responsible for 
ensuring Henderson  
has in place effective 
internal controls.
 
Business Management
• Overall responsibility  
for risk management 
oversight lies with the 
Board Risk Committee.
• The CRO leads the Risk 
and Compliance 
functions who provide 

monitoring and 
assessment of the risks 
in the divisions and 
operating business.
Risk and  
Compliance Functions
• Independent assurance 
on the effectiveness  
of the risk management 
systems is provided by 
Internal Audit reporting 
to the Audit Committee.
• Audit of business areas 
based on an assessment 
of risk with higher  
risk activities audited  

Internal Audit
2
nd
 Line of Defence 1
st
 Line of Defence 3
rd
 Line of Defence
 37
Strategic report Key risks and their mitigation
The key risks faced by the Group fall into a number of distinct categories and the means adopted to mitigate them  
are both varied and relevant to the nature of the risk concerned.
 
and divestment Credit Foreign currency Key personnel
Description
• Risk of organisational stress 
through potential demands 
on staff and resources 
through need to integrate 

reorganise processes to 
divest parts of the business.
• This risk is aligned to the 

that involves willingness  
 
of businesses.
• Risk of a counterparty to the 
Group defaulting on funds 
deposited with it or the 

• Risk that the Group will 
sustain losses through 
adverse movements  

• Risk of net redemptions by 
clients resulting in a decline 
in AUM and revenues  
earned by the Group.
• Risk of losing either a 
 
or one of the Group’s  
key investment or  
distribution professionals. 
• Potential adverse effect  
on business growth  
and/or the retention 

Trends in 2014
• 
Capital Management.
• Divestment of the Group’s 
property business and 
formation of the TH Real 
Estate joint venture. 
• 
interest in the Intrinsic 
Cirilium investment 
management joint venture.
• Credit default swap  
spreads of our principal 
counterparties narrowed  
in 201 4 indicating reduction 
in perceived default risk.
• Volatility of foreign  

low in 201 4, although they 
have increased in 201 5. 
• Overall, strong positive  

• Staff turnover generally  
low throughout 201 4.
• Percentage of Group 
revenues from funds 
managed by an individual 
fund manager remains  

increasing concentration  

Mitigation
• 
considered only where 

goals and meet our 

we can realise value for 
our shareholders. The 
Board’s risk appetite 
statement includes 

criteria that must be  

• Thorough due diligence 
performed before any 

including assessment  
of our ability to  
integrate successfully  

• Integration risk, post 
closing, is managed, 
monitored and reported.
• Credit risk arising  

counterparties is 
assessed, managed and 
monitored in line with  
the Group’s risk appetite.
• The Credit Risk 
Committee meets 
regularly to approve, 
review and set limits  
for all new and  

•  
assets and liabilities  
 
same currency.
• 
to an individual currency.
• Hedging currency 

seed capital investments.
• Risk overseen by the 
Hedge Committee  
that submits a monthly  
report to the Board.
• Diversity of sources of 
revenue by asset class, 
capability, fund style, 
strategy and geography.
• Diversity of investor  
base between retail  
and institutional and  
by geography.
• Strong investment 
performance across 
product ranges.
• Our remuneration 
structures are competitive 
and are designed 
to recognise and  
reward performance. 
• Succession planning to 
ensure that there is cover 
for key roles should they 
become vacant. 
• Staff surveys identify  
any issues which  
could adversely impact  
staff retention.
• Comprehensive training  
is offered to all staff.
• Deliberate strategy to avoid 
dependence on a single 
investment manager or 
team for a high proportion 
of our revenues, resulting  
in broad and diverse fund 
manager teams.
Risk management continued
  Investment 
performance Market
Operational  
and legal Regulatory change Reputational
Description
• Risk that funds fail to 
achieve performance hurdles 
or benchmarks relative to 
similar funds managed by 

redemptions and reduction  
in AUM and revenues  
earned by the Group.
• Poor fund performance  
will also result in lower 
performance fees.
• Risk that market conditions 
lead to a reduction in the 
value of clients’ AUM  
and revenues earned by  
the Group. 
• Risk that market conditions 
lead to a decline in the  
value of Group seed  
capital investments.
• Risk of losses through 
 
internal processes, people  
or systems or through 

the risk of loss arising 
from failing to manage key 
outsourced service providers 
properly, the risk arising from 
major disruption to our 
business and the risk of 
losses from breaches  
of investment mandates.
• Risk of losses from litigation.
• Risk that a change in  
laws and regulations will 
materially affect the Group’s 
business or markets in  
which it operates.
• This may affect the business 
either directly or indirectly  
by reducing investors’ 
appetite for our products, 
increasing capital 
 
our ability to sell products, 
pursue certain investment 
strategies and/or increasing 
 
of the Group’s business. 
• Risk that negative publicity 
regarding the Group will lead 
to client redemptions and  
a decline in AUM and 
revenue and/or to litigation. 
• The risk of damage to the 
Group’s reputation is more 
likely to result from one  
of the other key risks 
materialising rather than  
as a standalone risk.
Trends in 2014
• Continued strong fund 
performance with 83%  
of funds (weighted by  
AUM) outperforming  
over three years.
• Slight weakening in one  
year performance, but still 
continues to be strong.
• Positive market performance 
in 2014 resulted in an 
increase in AUM, and 
therefore revenue, and  
in the value of seed  
capital investments.
• Continued rise in the  
number and sophistication  


• Pace of regulatory change 

implementation of the 
AIFMD and Capital 

Major regulatory change also 
underway with Regulation 
and Central Clearing of OTC 
Derivatives, changes to UK 
client money regulations  
and MiFID II.
• Regulations regarding  
the fair use of dealing 
commissions are a particular 
focus for the FCA.
• Henderson’s brand has 
continued to strengthen  
in 2014 as evidenced by 
positive feedback from 
clients and the related  

multiple channels and 
geographic regions.
Mitigation
• Robust investment 
process including  
detailed research. 
• Clearly articulated 
investment philosophy 
including analysis of  
our funds by comparing 
their performance against 
appropriate benchmarks. 
• Broad range of funds to 
reduce the probability of 
all funds underperforming 
at the same time.
• Independent Investment 
Risk function aims to 
ensure that the level  
of risk taken for each 
portfolio is consistent  
with client mandates  
and fund prospectuses.
• Risk of a fall in the  
value of clients’ AUM  
is mitigated by diversity  
of AUM by asset  
class and underlying  
investment strategy. 
• We actively seek fee 
bases which are not solely 
calculated by reference  
to the market value of 


base is variable. 
• Limits on the aggregate 
amount of seed capital 

of the assets invested and 
appropriate hedging  
of the market risks  
where appropriate.
• Our control systems  
are designed to ensure 
operational and legal  
risks are mitigated to  
an acceptable level. 
• Three lines of  
defence model is key  
(see page 37 for details).
• Outsourced service 
providers are overseen by 
the relevant line function 
and, for key relationships, 
their controls are also 
reviewed by the Group’s 
assurance functions. 
• We maintain and test 
business continuity plans 
which are designed to 
ensure that, in the event 
of business disruption,  
we can maintain our 
operations without 
irreparable damage  
to the business.
• Active and constructive 
engagement  
with regulators. 
• Regulatory developments 
are monitored by a 
dedicated team in 
Compliance who provide 
training to the relevant 
teams where appropriate. 
• Working groups 

changes to our  
business processes.
• Compliance monitors 
ongoing regulatory 
obligations and engages 
in regular dialogue  
with our regulators. 
• Active involvement  
with and through  
industry bodies.
• Reputational risk is 
primarily mitigated through 
the effective mitigation  
of the other key risks.
• Reputational risk is also 
mitigated by our culture, 
which is based on the 
value of integrity, trust  
and treating clients fairly. 
• Risk appetite, risk and 
compliance policies, 
governance structures 

Interest Committee)  
and reward structures 

on issues and behaviours 
that could affect 
Henderson’s reputation. 
 39
Strategic report Corporate Responsibility
A different approach
Henderson has a proud track record of success in 
Corporate Responsibility initiatives. We have been 

® 
since 2005, were a founder 

 
we launched the Henderson Trainee Programme in 
2010, and established the Henderson Foundation  
to further support our philanthropic activity, in 2012.
Many of our Corporate Responsibility activities are the 
result of local initiatives which originated at a functional 
or team level, or are even due to the hard work of  
a passionate individual. These efforts have received 
numerous accolades and endorsements, and we are 
 
impact of Henderson’s Corporate Responsibility activity  

Corporate Responsibility has evolved to become such  
an important part of how we do business that we are 
increasing the oversight and leadership at a Group  
level. We want to be known for driving a comprehensive 
Corporate Responsibility programme across our business.
We are challenging ourselves to ensure that the activities 
Henderson engages in are appropriate to our business 
and the communities we operate in. We want to 
contribute in a way that draws upon our skills, knowledge 

possible, we will draw on the Group’s guiding principles 
of Collaboration, Conviction and Responsibility in the 
delivery of our Corporate Responsibility programme.
Governance
As an indication of the increasing importance of 
Corporate Responsibility at Henderson, the Group  
has established a Global Corporate Responsibility 
Committee. The Committee reports through the  
CFO to raise issues and make recommendations, as 

 
and is comprised of the CFO and other appointed 
representatives from relevant business functions.
The Committee acts as a custodian for Corporate 
Responsibility strategy, reviewing performance and 
monitoring progress against targets and key initiatives. 
Why this is important to Henderson
Henderson does not just engage in Corporate 
Responsibility activity because it is the ‘right’ thing  
to do – we believe it supports our business strategy  
and values.
A strong Corporate Responsibility agenda is increasingly 

embraced by our employees. This means that a robust 
Corporate Responsibility strategy is integral to achieving 
all the elements of our mission. 
Corporate Responsibility is also an important component 
of brand and reputation. It helps us to maintain high 
levels of customer trust and employee engagement,  
and we believe this will ultimately lead to improved 
business performance.
 

• Clients
• Responsible Investment
• People
• Community
• Environment.
We commit to act responsibly, not only  
in the way we invest and engage with  
our clients, but also in terms of supporting  
our people, managing our impact on  
the environment and contributing to  

Roger Thompson 

  Clients
Aims and objectives
With our clients’ needs at the heart of everything we do, client 
engagement forms a central theme of Henderson’s Corporate 
Responsibility programme. We continue to strive to meet the 
 
 

1. Improving customer understanding and insight through  
our research programme
2. Hardwiring the consideration of customer interests into  
our core business processes, such as design of products  
and communications 
3. Establishing the basis for a cultural evolution across  
the organisation supported by a consistent tone from  
the top and senior management engagement
4. Improving the sensitivity of our control and oversight  
framework to customer issues.
Progress in 2014

Customer Staff Survey showing both an improved participation rate 
and an improvement in positive responses across the UK business.
Focused customer satisfaction studies also demonstrate a high level 
of customer service satisfaction in the core customer channels of  
UK Retail and European Institutional.
Monitoring performance
Customer Staff Survey
Each year, UK staff complete a short survey to help us understand 
 • 
This survey will be rolled out to all Henderson staff in 2015 as part  
of the global application of the Henderson Statement of Customer 
Principles (where local regulation permits).
Customer Satisfaction
We undertake focused customer satisfaction studies in our core 
customer channels. 
UK Retail
• 

• 

EMEA Institutional
•  

 
Responsible Investment
Aims and objectives
As an asset manager, perhaps the greatest impact we can have is  
 
is committed to the principles of good stewardship and responsible 
investment. We believe that integrating Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) issues into our investment decision making and 
ownership practices will help deliver better investment outcomes  
for our clients. We therefore aim to ensure our investment teams 
 Responsible Investment team works closely with our investment 
teams to promote ESG integration in line with client mandates. 
Progress in 2014
We have made good progress in developing systems to improve 
access to ESG data, and in our voting, engagement and governance 

• Integrating ESG data into our main investment platform. This data 
includes company ratings, internal research, engagement notes 
and voting outcomes.
• The full Henderson voting record is now made publicly available.  
 report summarising work undertaken to implement our 
Responsible Investment policy.
• We increased the proportion of meetings at which we voted. 
• We increased our involvement in collaborative engagement 
initiatives on environmental and social issues such as climate 
change, water use and labour standards.
• 
committee to build on the progress made in integrating ESG 

Monitoring performance
Success in implementing our Responsible Investment policy is 


consultants, both of which showed continued improvement 
compared to previous years. We also review company engagement 
and voting data and internal feedback on the integration of ESG  
data into research platforms.
2012
56%
2013
91%
2014
94%
94%
Henderson’s voting record
 41
Strategic report Corporate Responsibility continued
People
Aims and objectives
We approach our responsibility to look after our people assets  
as proactively and carefully as we do our clients’ assets. We are 
committed to providing a positive work environment that offers 

employees, and offers a wide range of career development options.
Progress in 2014
This year’s employee engagement survey, which ran in October  
2014, saw our highest ever response rate (91%). With over  
230 new hires in 2014, it was paramount to seek feedback from  
our employees on how we, as an organisation, are doing. Our results 



• 96% of employees care about the future of Henderson 
(benchmark 88%)
• 91% of employees are proud of the work they do at Henderson 
(benchmark 84%)
• 89% of employees are proud to say they work for Henderson 
(benchmark 70%).
The survey also highlighted some key development themes around 
 
look to focus on in 2015 in order to keep building on our success.
As part of our commitment to developing our people, we have 

courses now being run across Europe, Asia and the US.

Group, which aims to ensure we are attracting, developing  
and retaining the best people irrespective of their background.  
 
Living Wage employer.
Henderson actively encourages employee participation in sports and 
social activities. In 2014, we provided ongoing support for several 
sports teams and organised other sports, social and cultural events.

including private medical insurance for all our employees, as well as 

helpline in the UK.

*   Employee engagement is a measure of an employee’s commitment to the 
organisation’s goals and values, motivation to contribute to organisational 
success, and ability at the same time to enhance their own sense of 
 Community
Aims and objectives
Henderson aims to encourage and support its employees’ 
philanthropic activity towards charities and causes that have a 
personal meaning to them as well as those selected on a corporate 
level. Sharing skills and knowledge, as well as supporting charities 
that focus on education and developing local communities, is  
central to our community engagement activity.
Henderson believes in developing longstanding relationships with 
charities and has supported the East London charity Community 
Links since 1987 . Promoting social mobility continues to be high  
on our community engagement agenda as well as encouraging 
volunteering by teams and individuals.
Progress in 2014
Throughout the year, we have reviewed our methods of supporting 
employee philanthropic activity. We continue to match employee 
 
and we achieved a Payroll Giving Gold Quality Award for our 
participation rates in the Give As Y ou Earn scheme in the UK.
All employees are entitled to one day’s paid leave for volunteering,  
and in line with our Knowledge. Shared brand proposition, we hosted 

initiative. We hope to encourage and support volunteering further by 
promoting it within our learning and development programmes, and  
by incorporating it into the T rainee Programme syllabus.
 Foundation and the Disasters Emergency Committee, and developed 
new links with Fragile X Foundation and Hunger T ask Force in the US. 
T o further support our goal of increasing social mobility, we have 
developed a link with the City of London’s programme City Action to 
promote Investment 2020 and the Henderson T rainee Programme  
at a range of schools, universities and charities. We also registered  
our support of Code College, a new technology and coding college  
in London designed to reduce the skills gap in the UK and tackle 
social mobility.
£
192,021
Henderson Foundation spending (£)
2014 2013 2012 2011
149,532
162,213
221,505
192,021
42  Environment
Aims and objectives
Henderson understands the important role that a business must  
play in managing and mitigating its environmental impact. This is an 
important factor when considering how we invest, and we believe it  

the operation of our business and focus on ensuring that we operate 
sustainable business practices.
Progress in 2014

by offsetting our unavoidable emissions through a range of voluntary 
carbon reduction projects around the world. This means that  
for every tCO 2e we produce, we invest in a project that saves an 

recognised global standards. For 2014, our total offset amounted  
to 5,229tCO 2e.
We continued to engage with best practice environmental groups  
to help develop our environmental strategies. During the year,  
 

The CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) 2014 UK Corporate 

within the FTSE 350 for our climate change disclosure and 
 
UK and Australia.
Monitoring performance
CDP ratings
Reporting year
Henderson 
disclosure 
percentage
Henderson 
performance 
band
FTSE 100 
average 
disclosure 
percentage/
performance 
band
FTSE 250 
average 
percentage/
performance 
band
2014 97 A 85/B 72/C
2013 81 B 81/B 60/C
GHG emissions reporting
In 2014, as we continued our strategy of growth and globalisation, 
we maintained our focus on delivering this growth in the most 

naturally resulted in an increase in the overall level of our emissions. 
Henderson’s emissions are calculated in accordance with the 
international GHG Protocol framework and are independently 

GHG emissions by scope (tCO
2
e)
Scope 2014 2013
Scope 1
Fuel (natural gas) 12 26
Scope 2
Electricity 2,053 2,197
Scope 3
Business travel (air, rail, road) 2,661 2,310
Hotels 218 183
Business freight (air, road) 49 50
T otal Scope 3 2,928 2,543
Total GHG emissions 4,993 4,766
Total per employee
1
4.82 4.12
 2e).  
Employee numbers are averaged over the year and include project and 
temporary staff and employees from the Property business who left  
Henderson in April 2014.
500
0
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
0
8
6
2
4
10
12
14
Total Group (tCO
2
e)
Regional GHG emissions: total Group (tCO
2
e)
Average per employee (tCO
2
e)
2013 2013 2014 2014
Regional GHG emissions: average per employee (tCO
2
e)
GHG emissions by region and per employee (tCO
2
e)
United States UK Europe (ex-UK) As we continue to grow, we will maintain our focus on the environment. We are committed to offsetting all of our emissions so we mitigate  
our impact on climate change.
 43
Strategic report Corporate governance
Dear Shareholder
The past year has seen a number of matters to consider 
as a Board and once again I would like to provide some 
insight as to how we dealt with the main issues facing 
the Group in 2014.
We have continued to pursue our strategy of growth and 
globalisation in the Group as evidenced by an important 

the US fund manager, Geneva Capital Management. 
Further information regarding Geneva can be found  
on page 10. As usual, we set up a dedicated Board 
committee to oversee the necessary due diligence  


treatment, operations, human resources and any legal 
issues. Following this meeting, the Board as a whole  
met to further consider any outstanding points.
As a Board, we spent a week in Australia getting to 
know our business there in more depth, meeting 
institutional clients, opinion formers in the Financial 
Services industry and our Australian shareholders. We 
took time to review not only our Australian operations, 
but also our broader Asian strategy. Our AGM was a 
good opportunity to meet a very lively group of Australian 
investors, which we thoroughly enjoyed. Our time in 
Australia was time well spent and I would hope to do  
this again at some point in the future as we grow in this 
location. Whilst on the topic of the AGM, although the 
Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy were 
approved by shareholders, we took the number of  

seriously and we have been more proactive this year  
to improve the level of disclosure and transparency  
and to improve consultation with shareholders and  
voting agencies.
As set out last year, I am committed to making certain 
that the Board devotes enough time to consider the 
Group’s strategy and its link to the business. At the end 
of each Board meeting we continue to hold a discussion 

are being considered and addressed to their satisfaction. 
We also hold strategy days during the year at which  
the Board receives presentations and proposals  
from management on our progress against strategy, 
opportunities and where we see the Group positioned  
in the long term, as well as presentations from fund 
managers on our business and clients. A description  
of our business model and our strategy for achieving  
our goals is set out on pages 12 to 16.
I am glad to report that the standard of work by our 


this year by Independent Board Evaluation and a fuller 
report of the results of that evaluation is set out on page 
46. As always, I would like to thank the Audit, Board Risk 
and Remuneration Committee Chairmen and the other 
 
and the valuable contributions made during the year.  
A summary of the Committees’ activities is set out later 
in this Corporate Governance section.
I believe that our governance framework remains robust 
and continues to enable us to deliver on our strategy and 
I look forward to the challenges and opportunities that 
2015 will bring. 
This Corporate Governance statement is correct as at  
24 February 2015 and has been approved by the Board 
of Directors.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
24 February 2015
Our governance framework 
supports and enables us  

Richard Gillingwater 
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction
44  UK Corporate Governance  
Code and ASX Principles
The Directors embrace, and are subject to, the high 
standards of corporate governance contained in the  
UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC  
in September 2012 (UK Code) and the Corporate 
Governance Principles and Recommendations with 2010 
Amendments issued by the ASX Corporate Governance 
Council in June 2010 (ASX Principles). The UK Code 
and the ASX Principles can be found on the websites  
of their respective organisations at www.frc.org.uk and 

policies can be found on our website. Compliance with 
both the new UK Corporate Governance Code, 
published in September 2014, and the ASX Corporate 
Governance Principles and Recommendations issued  

commencing on 1 January 2015, will be disclosed  
in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company complied with the UK Code and the ASX 

disclosure of gender diversity targets. We recognise that 
 
to our success and that this will continue to add value to 
the way in which our business operates in the future. 
While we do not have formal diversity targets, as we 
believe that appointments should be based on merit and 

and diversity in the workplace and recognise the need 

retain high potential employees. We have numerous 

place to support a diverse workforce and a forum, 
chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, 
made up of representatives from across the business 
 
more closely at diversity and inclusion at Henderson. 
As we grow globally, it is important to ensure we are 
attracting, developing and retaining the best people  

the diversity of our people and the communities we 
operate in.
This statement together with the Directors’ remuneration 
report, describes how we applied the ‘main principles’  
set out in the UK Code and complied with the ASX 
Principles. Further details can be found in the corporate 
governance section of our website. The ASX Principles 
also encourage companies that are not subject to the 
Australian Corporations Act 2001 to adopt practices  
and make disclosures to achieve the aims of the 
provisions contained in certain sections of that Act.  
We achieved the aims of some of those provisions, 

Our disclosure of individuals’ remuneration is limited to 



information to be commercially sensitive. However, we 
have disclosed the aggregate annual remuneration of 
FCA Code Staff on our website at www.henderson.com.
The Board’s structure
 

Directors. Biographical details of the Directors are 
set out on page 49.
Although the Chairman, Richard Gillingwater, met the 
independence criteria on appointment, the UK Code 
provides that the test of independence is not appropriate 
thereafter and does not allow the Chairman to be 

in determining whether there is an appropriate balance 
on the Board, which is not the case under the ASX 
Principles. For the avoidance of doubt, the Chairman 
considers himself to be both objective and independent 
but for good order he is not counted with the 


Arkle, Kevin Dolan, Tim How, Robert Jeens and Angela 

have any interest or business or other relationship which 
could, or could reasonably be perceived to, interfere 
materially with their ability to act in the best interests of 
the Company. We have considered the criteria proposed 
by the UK Code and the ASX Principles in assessing the 
independence of the Directors. Materiality, as referred  
to in the ASX Principles, has been assessed on a 

individual circumstances rather than general materiality 


threshold for independence, which is that none of them 
has a relationship with the Group which generates or 
accounts for more than 5% of the Group’s revenue or 

has a majority of Directors who are independent. Tim How 
is the Senior Independent Director.
There is a division of responsibility between the 
Chairman, who is responsible for leading the Board and 

is responsible to the Board for the overall management 
and performance of the Group. The Chairman’s other 

Directors section on page 49.
 




will normally be for a period of 12 months. The 
 
shown on page 82. The terms and conditions of their 
appointment are on our website, as is the process for 
their appointment and reappointment.
At our AGM held on 1 May 2014, shareholders 
reappointed Sarah Arkle, Kevin Dolan, Andrew Formica, 
Richard Gillingwater, Tim How, Robert Jeens, Angela 


London, when all Directors on the Board at that date  
 45
Governance will be seeking reappointment in accordance with the 
recommendations of the UK Code. 
Diversity
 
 
In order to assist us in monitoring our progress on 
gender diversity, senior management reviews statistics 
on numbers and proportions of men and women in the 

patterns; status; length of service; turnover; region; 
division; and salary band.
We apply the same principles at Board level. Candidates for 

• the current composition of the Board, with due  

including gender;
• the need for independence;
• the strategic direction and progress of the business; 
and
• the geographic spread and diversity of the Group. 

25% of the Board. The General Counsel and Company 

Lesley Cairney, and the Global Head of HR, Kathleen 

Responsibilities and operation  
of the Board
The Board met nine times in 2014, of which eight  
were scheduled meetings. All Board and standing  
Board Committee meetings were held in the UK,  

The number of meetings held by the standing 
Committees during the year are set out later in this 
governance report.  We are scheduled to meet at  
least eight times in 2015. 


Directors also attended the senior management 
conference held in May 2014.
During each meeting, Directors are given the opportunity 

from management. The Board dedicated a day and  
a half to strategy, in addition to considering regular 
strategy updates from management during the year. 
T o enable us, as a Board, to perform our role effectively, 
we are provided with the means and information 
necessary for us to make informed decisions and to  
follow best corporate governance practices. In addition, 


to review the items of business, the likely time to be spent 
on each agenda item, who should present particular items 
and to ensure that appropriate papers are provided.
We receive detailed reports on the various aspects of  
the business and any major issues affecting it, which 
include a monthly performance report. An overview  
of some of the matters considered by the Board in  
2014 is on page 56.
We reviewed and approved our corporate governance 
policies and manual in 2014. These include, but are  
not limited to, an overview of the Company’s corporate 
governance procedures, a policy on trading in the  
shares of the Company by Directors and employees  
and the Code of Conduct which sets out our values  
and standards. We have a Market Disclosure and 
Communication Policy designed to ensure compliance 
with our disclosure obligations and a Chief Disclosure 

governance policies set a framework within which  
 
the interests of shareholders, clients, employees and 
suppliers. These policies and other corporate governance 
documents are on our website.
All Directors have access to the advice and services  

Secretary. The Company Secretary can be appointed  
or removed only with the approval of the Board. The 
Directors are entitled to seek independent professional 

necessary for them to discharge their responsibilities.
Training
T o ensure that the Directors continually update their 
skills and knowledge, all Directors receive regular 
presentations on different aspects of the Group’s 


Directors received training regarding derivatives, the  
ASX Listing and Disclosure Rules, Australian regulation, 
a presentation on the embedding of TCF and customer 
interests in Henderson and a presentation on cyber risk. 
Evaluation of the Board’s 
performance

conducted in 2014 by Independent Board Evaluation 
(IBE). IBE has no other connections with the Company. 
IBE held interviews with each of the Directors and 
attended one of the scheduled Board and Committee 
 
the Chairman to discuss the results and presented its 
recommendations to the Board. After taking account  
of the Board evaluation, the Senior Independent  

 
Chairman’s performance.
A report was presented to and considered by the Board 
following the evaluation process, at which it was agreed 
that both the Board and its Committees continue to 
operate effectively and had improved in effectiveness 

Corporate governance continued
46  agreed that, amongst other issues, a number of areas 
could be improved upon which included a review of the 
structure of information provided to the Board and 
Committees, considering increasing international 

succession planning in the business.

was evaluated by the Chairman and the Remuneration 


the Remuneration Committee. These performance 
evaluations were conducted in accordance with the 
processes disclosed on our website.
Delegations of authority
A schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board 
is reviewed annually and is also on our website. The Board 


 

matters relating to the Group’s business and these were 
reviewed and updated during 201 4. 
The delegations of authority are based on the Chief 



direct reports (level two), and the delegations of matters 

whom these three levels of delegations apply and the 



Committee members, is responsible for developing 
business strategy and, once approved by the Board, for 
ensuring that the strategy is implemented in accordance 
with the approved operating plan and complies with 
internal policies, procedures and controls. A number  
of other committees have been appointed to manage 
aspects of our business and form part of the risk 
management framework that monitors and mitigates  
the risks and uncertainties and these are set out on 
pages 38 and 39.
Investor relations
We actively engage with investors and investor bodies 
and welcome the opportunity to discuss their views  
on relevant issues. The Board also receives regular 
feedback from the Investor Relations team and the 
 
views on the Group and wider industry matters. The 
monthly performance report provides a summary of our 

share register, and reviews share price performance  
and key market and sector developments. 
Our website provides online services to help 
shareholders manage their holding and engage with  
the Investor Relations team and Share Registry. T o  
 

announcements and presentations are available on  
our website. The Company’s Market Disclosure and 
Communication and Shareholder Communication 
Policies, which are designed to promote effective 
communication with shareholders, are available on our 
 
LSE and the ASX. The 2013 Annual Report was sent  


2013 Annual Report was available on our website.



shareholders during 2014 and those shareholders were 

All shareholders were invited to the AGM held on  
1 May 2014, held in Sydney, Australia and simultaneously 
broadcast to London. All Directors attended the AGM. 


answers given, together with the results of resolutions 
put to the AGM, are on our website. 
Board Committees

standing Committees of the Board. The membership  
of the Board Committees and a summary of their  
main duties and terms of reference are set out in  
this governance report. The Committees’ terms of  
reference are on our website. 
 47
Governance Board of Directors
 

  Richard Gillingwater
Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Experience
Prior to this he spent 10 years at Kleinwort Benson, before moving to BZW  
and, in due course, becoming joint Head of Corporate Finance and then latterly 
Chairman of European Investment Banking at Credit Suisse First Boston.  

 


1
:  


External appointments: 
Bar plc. Currently Deputy Chairman of SSE plc and will become Chairman at  

Committee membership: 
meetings of other Committees by invitation.
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Experience:
industry since 1993. He has held various senior roles with the Group and he  




manager and analyst for the Group.

1
 

2
External appointments: Member of the Board of The Investment Association 
and Director of TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited.
Committee membership: Attends Committee meetings by invitation.
Roger Thompson
 Experience: Mr Thompson joined Henderson Group from JP Morgan Asset 

was previously Head of UK and, prior to that, International CFO. In his 19 year 
career at JP Morgan, Mr Thompson held a broad range of roles and worked 
internationally, spending time in T okyo, Singapore and Hong Kong. He has 


1
:
2
External appointments: Steering committee member of ICI Global.
Committee membership: Attends Committee meetings by invitation.
Sarah Arkle
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the  
Board Risk Committee
Experience: 
32 years. She joined Allied Dunbar Asset Management in 1983 which became 
Threadneedle in 1994. She was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle until the end  
 
she held for 10 years. She was instrumental in establishing Threadneedle’s 
 
managers. Previously, Ms Arkle worked at the Far Eastern stockbroker WI Carr  
(Overseas) Limited and was an advisor to the South Y orkshire Pension Fund.

1
:

External appointments:

 
Markets Investment T rust plc.
Committee membership: Chair of the Board Risk Committee. Member of  

Kevin Dolan
Independent Non-Executive Director
Experience:



of Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management. He spent 10 years with the AXA 


 
in London from 2006 until 2009. Mr Dolan has been a Director on a  
number of boards in Europe and the US, including DLJ and Alliance Capital.

1
: 

External appointments:
Meeschaert Gestion Privée.
Committee membership:
Remuneration Committees. Attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
Tim How
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Experience:
 
formerly Managing Director of Bejam Group Plc. He was Chairman of Downing 
Income VCT 4 Plc until December 2013, Deputy Chairman of the Peabody  


1
: 


External appointments: Chairman of both Woburn Enterprises Limited and 



Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Member 

meetings by invitation.
Robert Jeens
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
Experience:  


Director appointments include the Chairman of nCipher plc and the Deputy 

Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited from 2003 to May 201 2. Mr 
 
on 30 June 201 4.

1
:

External appointments:
Securities plc and Chairman of Allianz T echnology T rust plc (previously RCM 
T echnology T rust plc).
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee. Member of the 

meetings by invitation.
Angela Seymour-Jackson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Experience:
 
 
 
from 2010 until 201 2 and led the sale to Carlyle. She joined Aegon UK in  
May 201 2 and was appointed Managing Director of the Workplace Solutions  
Division in December 201 2. 

1
:

External appointments:
Committee membership:
Remuneration Committees. Attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
 1.  
 are subject to their retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders 
at the Company’s Annual General Meetings.
2. 
service contracts are terminable on 12 months’ written notice by the Company 

 49
Governance Board Risk Committee
Membership
Sarah Arkle is the Chair of the Board Risk Committee. The other current members are Kevin Dolan, Robert Jeens  

Board Risk Committee
Date appointed

Meetings
1
Meetings 
Attended
1
Meetings 
Attended
1
Sarah Arkle (Chair) 17 /10/2012 4 4 100%
Kevin Dolan 26/09/201 1 4 4 100%
Robert Jeens 29/06/2010 4 4 100%
 23/01/2014 3 3 100%
1. Whilst a member of the Committee.
The Board Risk Committee is 

risk matters relevant to the  
Group and considers emerging 

Sarah Arkle 
Board Risk Committee Chair
Responsibilities
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing, 
managing and assessing the Group’s key risks through  

measures. The Board Risk Committee is forward looking 

risk appetite in setting its future strategy. It also advises 
the Board on the amount of surplus regulatory capital 
that should be held and oversees the effectiveness  
of the risk management framework and procedures. 
Responsibilities include the monitoring of the principal 
risks and uncertainties relating to the Group. It reviews 

(CRO) (who reports directly to the Chair of the Board 
Risk Committee) and oversees the effectiveness of  
the CRO’s role.
Board Risk Committee’s principal 
activities during 2014
The Risk management statement (refer to pages 36 to 
39) provides details on how the Board Risk Committee 

  Audit Committee
Membership
Robert Jeens is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The other current members are Sarah Arkle and Tim How.  



of which were scheduled meetings.
Audit Committee
Date appointed

Meetings
Meetings 
Attended
Meetings 
Attended
Robert Jeens (Chairman) 26/08/2009 6 6 100%
Sarah Arkle 09/12/2013 6 6 100%
Tim How 1 1/05/2009 6 6 100%
The presence and activity of  
the new auditors have been  

Robert Jeens 
Audit Committee Chairman
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the 

reporting, overseeing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal controls, assessing the effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function, reviewing the performance 

being responsible for recommending their appointment, 
reappointment and removal) and reviewing the Group’s 
arrangements in respect of whistleblowing. However, 
ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual Report and other public reports, declarations  
and statements remains with the Board. A description  
of how the Audit Committee spent its time discharging 
its responsibilities during 2014 is set out below.
Audit Committee’s principal 
activities during 2014
Reliability and appropriateness of the 
 The Company has in place arrangements to ensure  
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 

provides shareholders with the information necessary  
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. T o assist the Board in making this decision, the 
Audit Committee, as part of the oversight of the reliability 

received and reviewed reports from management and 
 
of the Group and the Company as well as the Interim 
Report and Accounts, interim management statements, 

This included the review and approval of the timetable 
and deliverables for both the annual and interim  
results. In addition, it considered the components of  
the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive  
Income, Statement of Financial Position, Statement  

As part of the review of the Annual Report, the  

issues and discussed how these may be addressed. 

• disposal of the Property business and recognition  
of the TH Real Estate joint venture;
• 
• consolidation of funds under the implementation  
of IFRS 10.
T o address these issues, in each case the Audit 
Committee received regular updates and reports from 
management which set out a summary of the issues  
with judgements or recommendations made as to the 
appropriate accounting treatment or disclosure. The 
 51
Governance Committee considered these and challenged 
management where appropriate on matters of 
judgement and the resultant recommendations. The 
Committee concluded that the judgements made in 
respect of the above matters are reasonable and that 
appropriate disclosures have been included in the 
 
and how they were viewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP is set out on in their report on pages 88 to 96.
A number of areas of focus were also considered by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which included (i) 
migration of the accounting records to a new general 
ledger, (ii) recognition of management and performance 
fees, (iii) goodwill and intangible assets impairment 
review and (iv) recognition of share based payments and 

set out in their report. The Committee received updates 
on all of these matters throughout the year.
The Committee fully reviewed the Annual Report 
following the review of the matters and reports referred 
to above and recommended to the Board that the 
Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced  
and understandable.
The Audit Committee also received the Money 



Internal controls 
The Audit Committee received an internal controls report 

the Internal Audit, Legal and Compliance functions. The 
Internal Audit section of the report contained an update 
of outstanding audits in accordance with the Internal 
Audit Plan and the results of audits undertaken 

outstanding actions. The Audit Committee also received 
a list of auditable activities ranked in priority of risk. 

known or potential claims made by or against the Group. 
The Compliance section sets out a summary of any 
 
as priority areas relating to a combination of business  
as usual, and other regulatory developments including 

regulatory developments and initiatives, compliance 

regarding contact and meetings with the FCA.  
Where necessary, the updates included actions 
undertaken or those recommended to be undertaken  
by the Group.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee reviewed Internal Audit in 2014 


independence

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. The presence and 
activity of the new auditors were an important feature  
of 2014 for the Committee and a presentation was 
provided by the PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP central 
audit team on delivering the integrated audit model. A 
summary of the fees paid and services provided by 



remuneration and engagement letter, and reviewed the 
effectiveness of the outgoing auditors, Ernst & Y oung 
LLP, which included an overview of the services provided, 
the cost of services provided, a description of the 

 
Audit Committee reviewed and authorised details of the 


satisfactory and had not compromised their objectivity  
or independence. The Audit Committee considered the 
risk and contingency plan in the event of the withdrawal 

The audit engagement partner and senior audit team 


Group and the Company. The Group will comply with  
the UK Code’s 10 year provision to tender the audit 
engagement when appropriate.
The Charter of Statutory Auditor Independence was  



The Charter takes into account the FRC Guidance on 
Audit Committees. The Charter includes those services 

prior approval and those which are prohibited. These 




procedures for the selection, appointment and rotation  

on our website. The Audit Committee also reviewed the 
independence of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and put 

independence as part of the above review. 

Company’s AGM on 30 April 2015 and will be available 

conduct of the audit and the preparation and content  
of the independent auditors’ report as shown on pages  
Audit Committee continued
52  auditors attended the scheduled Audit Committee 
meetings during the year and, on one occasion,  

Directors being present. Outside the framework of formal 
meetings, the Audit Committee Chairman meets and  


Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Compliance and  

Oversight of internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal controls and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system of internal controls is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure  
to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against  
material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls is reviewed at least annually by the Board in 
order to safeguard the Group’s assets as well as clients’ 
and shareholders’ interests. In 2014, this review covered 

compliance controls and risk management systems.  
As part of its review, the Board received assurances  

that the statement provided on page 87 is founded on a 
sound system of risk management and internal controls 
and that the system is operating effectively in all material 

 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls and the mitigation of any material business risks.
 

have operated effectively. These controls, and the risks 
which they are designed to mitigate, are maintained 
within the Group’s operational risk database, which  
 
Group’s business. The Board will report against the  
new Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control  
and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued  
in September 2014 in the 2015 Annual Report  
and Accounts.

reporting

provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 





internal controls to ensure its effectiveness. The internal 

• relate to the maintenance of records that, in 

transactions and disposals of the Group’s assets; 
• provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation  


accordance with authorisations of management  
and Directors; and
• provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention  
 
use or disposal of Group assets that could have a  




responsible for reviewing and overseeing the Group’s 
 
of interest and ensuring the best interests of its clients 
are considered at all times. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee chairs the CC. Its other members comprise 
the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Chief Risk 

 

• overseeing the Group’s culture, awareness and 

• overseeing the policies and procedures designed  
to ensure clients’ interests are considered in the 
business conduct of the Group and its governance;
• 
related policies, ensuring these adhere to regulatory 

• 

• reviewing appropriate management information to 

effectively mitigated and/or managed.
During 2014, the CC received presentations from senior 

various areas of the business including a presentation 
 
the organisation. The CC also reviewed research 
commissions and noted that steps had been taken to 

global remuneration policies were reviewed as well  
as the composition and activities of the CC to ensure  
 
 
of the CC as a result of this evaluation. 
Financial reporting and  
going concern
Refer to page 59 for a statement on the adoption of  
the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
 53
Governance Nomination Committee
Membership
 


Date appointed

Meetings
Meetings 
Attended
Meetings 
Attended
Richard Gillingwater (Chairman) 06/02/2013 2 2 100%
Sarah Arkle 16/10/2012 2 2 100%
Kevin Dolan 26/09/201 1 2 2 100%
Tim How 28/1 1/2008 2 2 100%
Robert Jeens 26/08/2009 2 2 100%
 23/01/2014 2 2 100%
Succession planning is important 
to the Group and is a standing 
item on the agenda for the 

Richard Gillingwater 
Nomination Committee Chairman
Responsibilities
 

 
the appointment and retirement of Directors and  
making recommendations to the Board on these  
matters and issues of succession planning.

activities during 2014
 
Board on 23 January 2014 and a description  
of the appointment process was set out in the  
2013 Annual Report. 
 



planning as a standing item for its meetings and  
carried out a detailed review of a succession plan  

management roles. 
54  Remuneration Committee
Membership
Tim How is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The other current members are Sarah Arkle, Kevin Dolan 

Remuneration Committee
Date appointed

Meetings
1
Meetings 
Attended
1
Meetings 
Attended
1
Tim How (Chairman) 28/1 1/2008 5 5 100%
Sarah Arkle 16/10/2012 5 5 100%
Kevin Dolan 26/09/201 1 5 5 100%
 23/01/2014 4 4 100%
1. Whilst a member of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee 
has responsibility for making 
recommendations to the Board 
on the Group’s remuneration 

Tim How 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for 
making recommendations to the Board on the Group’s 
remuneration plans, policies and practices and for 

 
 
pension rights, compensation payments (if any) and the 

Remuneration Committee operates on the principle that 

to encourage superior performance and should, in  
a fair and responsible manner, be rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the success of the Group. The 
Remuneration Committee also agrees, maintains and 
periodically reviews a list of Code Staff to ensure the 

structures are reviewed for compliance with the FCA 
Remuneration Code.
Remuneration Committee’s 
principal activities during 2014
The Directors’ remuneration report (refer to pages  
60 to 86) provides details on how the Remuneration 
 
2014 and also contains a statement on whether 
 
have any other connection with the Company.
 55
Governance Summary of Board business
Board meeting attendance
Date appointed

Meetings
1
Meetings
Attended
1
Meetings
Attended
1
Richard Gillingwater (Chairman) 06/02/2013 9 9 100%
Sarah Arkle 05/09/2012 9 9 100%
Kevin Dolan 26/09/201 1 9 9 100%
Andrew Formica 05/1 1/2008 9 9 100%
Tim How 28/1 1/2008 9 9 100%
Robert Jeens 29/07 /2009 9 9 100%
 23/01/2014 8 8 100%
Roger Thompson 26/06/2013 9 9 100%
1. The number of meetings represent those whilst a Director.
January
•  
Capital Management 
February
•  
Capital Management 
• Update on TH Real Estate  
Completion Matters
• Annual Report and Full Y ear Results
• Annual Review of Internal Controls
• Final Dividend for 2013
• Update on FCA Waiver
• 
• Update on Customer Interests
• Treating Customers Fairly
• FATCA Impact Summary
April
•  
Capital Management 
• Update on Business Initiatives and Strategy
• Institutional Business
• Insurance Renewal
• Treating Customers Fairly
• Pan Asia Strategic Plan
June
• 
Management 
• Board Strategy Day
• Update on Customer Interests
• Scottish Independence
• Interim Dividend for 2014
• Treasury Mandate
August
• 
Management
• 2014 Interim Results 
• Interim Dividend for 2014
• Treating Customers Fairly
 • Update on TH Real Estate
• Draft 2015 Budget and Review of 
Strategic Initiatives
• 
• 
Process (ICAAP)
• Format of Annual Report and Accounts
December
• 2015 Budget and Five Y ear Strategic Plan
• Update on Australia
• Update on Geneva Capital Management
• Investor Perception Presentation
• Review of Corporate Governance 
Arrangements
• Corporate Responsibility Reporting
• 
• Delegation of Authorities
• Treating Customers Fairly
An overview of the topics addressed by the Board in 2014
Board gender  
balance
Board split
T enure of  
 
Directors
1

Chairman
2
 
Directors
25%
1 – 3 3 – 6 6+
75%
5
 
Directors
Male Female
Y ears Y ears Y ears
56  Directors’ report
Corporate governance
The Corporate Governance statement appears on pages  
44 to 56 and forms part of this Directors’ report.
Branches
The Group continues to operate a number of overseas branches.
Reporting
Shares in Henderson Group plc are listed on both the LSE and  
the ASX (in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs)) and 


Events after the reporting date
The Board has not received, as at 24 February 2015, being the  
date on which the Annual Report and Accounts were approved,  
 
 statements as presented. The Board has, however, given due  
regard to the event which occurred after the reporting date as 

Directors
Details of the Board members who served during the year  
and at the date of this report are set out on page 49.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code,  
all Directors, will offer themselves for reappointment at the  
AGM on 30 April 2015.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, shareholders may  
remove a Director before the end of his or her term by passing  
an ordinary resolution at a meeting. An ordinary resolution is  
passed if more than 50% of the votes cast, in person or by 

Directors’ remuneration and interests
A report on Directors’ remuneration appears on pages 60 to  
86, including details of Directors’ interests in shares and share 
options or any right to subscribe for shares in the Company.

 
of interest and these have operated effectively throughout 2014.  
 
and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Any Director who  
 full details of the appointment to the Chairman and Company 
Secretary. In some cases, the interest or duty of someone who is 

interest and details of that must also be provided to the Chairman 
and Company Secretary. The Chairman will then decide whether  

interest and should therefore be considered by the Board. If it is 
considered and approved by the Board, such interest or potential 

 

The Company provides an Instrument of Indemnity to Directors  

against any liabilities incurred in defending any proceedings in which 

(ii) against liabilities incurred otherwise than to the Company, if the 
Director acted in good faith with a view to the best interests of the 
Company; and (iii) against any liabilities incurred in successfully 
applying to the Court for relief where the Director acted honestly.
In addition, the Instrument of Indemnity provides that Directors will 
have access to Board and Committee papers of the Company for  
 
a Director for the purpose of defending legal proceedings, and that 

 

 
paid or agreed to pay premiums in respect of a contract insuring all  

liabilities. The insurance policy prohibits disclosure of the nature  
of the liability, the amount of the premium and the limit of liability.
Financial instruments
Information regarding the risk management objectives, policies  

 
 

Political donations
The Group made no UK political donations, incurred no  
 

Rounding
In accordance with the Australian Securities and Investments 
Commission Class Order 98/100, amounts in this Directors’  
report and other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts  
 Annual General Meeting
 covering the AGM of the Company to be held on 30 April 2015,  
will be sent or made available to all shareholders and will contain  

Share capital and structure
Details of movements in the allotted share capital during the year  

The share capital of the Company, issued and unissued, consists 
entirely of ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each. Each share ranks 


 
its Articles of Association and there are no shares carrying special 
rights with regard to the control of the Company.
 57
Governance Substantial shareholdings
At 24 February 2015, in accordance with the provisions of Rule  
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company had 

issued share capital as set out in the table below.
Substantial shareholdings
T otal number  
of shares
Percentage of total  
voting rights
Perpetual Limited 1 15,931,961 10.17%
JCP Investment Partners Ltd 58,578,688 5.14%
Hyperion Asset  
Management Limited 56,676,081 4.98%
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 56,593,062 4.96%
Wellington Management 
Company, LLP 55,342,341 4.88%
IOOF Holdings Limited 49,005,304 4.40%
AustralianSuper Pty Ltd 43,730,658 3.83%
Employee share schemes
The Company has a number of employee share schemes. The  
rights attached to the shares of several of the share schemes are  

schemes have an obligation to act in the best interests of the 
 
may consider any recommendations made by the Company, where 
applicable, the discretion to vote remains with the trustees with  

employees do have a right to vote via the trustees and secondly,  
the trustee of the Henderson Group plc Buy As Y ou Earn Share  
 
how to vote. For these plans, the trustee seeks instructions from  

Restrictions on voting rights
All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at Company meetings 
 

forms must be received not less than 48 hours before the time 
appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any notices concerning 
 
the Company in relation to a meeting. In addition, the Companies 
 

and voting entitlements. This time may not be more than 48 hours 
 Meeting issued by the Company from time to time.
Amendment to the Articles of Association 
of the Company
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, the Company may only 
amend its Articles of Association if its shareholders pass a special 
resolution to that effect. A special resolution is passed if two thirds  
 
the resolution.


Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the Directors of the 


to grant such authority on an annual basis. Under the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Board may not allot ordinary shares for 
cash, other than pursuant to an employee share scheme, without  
 
to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their 
 resolution of the shareholders passed by a majority of at least three 

in favour of the resolution.
The Directors have been authorised by shareholders to allot the 
Company’s unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount  
 


less than one third of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital  
as at 31 December 2014. As at 24 February 2015, the Company  
 
 

holdings. Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority up to a 


The latter allotment ceiling of up to two thirds of the nominal value  
of the issued shares is in accordance with guidelines issued by The 
Investment Association.
 
sell ordinary shares held in treasury (treasury shares) for cash on  
 



and to sell treasury shares for cash other than in accordance with  

represents less than 5% of the Company’s issued share capital. 
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority up to a limit of 

Purchase of own share capital
Subject to authorisation by a special resolution passed by 
shareholders, the Company may purchase its own shares in 
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. Any shares 
bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, 
cancelled, thereby reducing the amount of issued share capital.  

authorised to purchase for the period up to the forthcoming AGM,  
is 1 12,140,000 minus the number of shares purchased as CDIs 
under a Contingent Purchase Contract (CP Contract). The minimum 
Directors’ report continued
  share is 12.5 pence (being the nominal value of an ordinary share). 
 


immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to 
 
of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest 
current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the 

Company during 2014.
The Directors consider that it may be advantageous for the Company 
to buy back interests in its own CDIs in certain circumstances. 
However, because CDIs are interests in shares, rather than shares 
themselves, the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 provisions which 
provide for a buy back of shares do not apply to CDIs. The Company, 
therefore, cannot buy CDIs pursuant to the above authority.
The Company achieved a similar result by entering into a CP 
Contract. The Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 provides that a CP 

Converted Shares were bought back by the Company during 2014.

back by the Company, together with the number of shares bought 
back by the Company under the authority to purchase its own shares 
set out above, is limited to 1 12,140,000, which represented under 
10% of the Company’s issued share capital at 24 February 2015. 
Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities up to a limit  
of 1 14,003,938 ordinary shares at the AGM on 30 April 2015.



March 2016 which are listed on the LSE. Condition 7 .3 of the terms 



amount together with accrued interest in the event of a ‘Change of 
Control’. A ‘Change of Control’ will be deemed to have occurred if 
any person or persons acting together come(s) to own more than 
50% of the share capital of Henderson Group plc (or more than 
50% of the voting rights attached to the share capital of Henderson 
Group plc) save in circumstances where the ultimate shareholders 
remain the same. In the event that 80% or more in the nominal 

purchased in accordance with this condition, Henderson UK Finance 

at their principal amount plus accrued interest.
Independent auditors
It is proposed that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be reappointed  
as independent auditors and a resolution for shareholders will be 
proposed at the 2015 AGM. 
Financial reporting and going concern
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in the 
Directors’ responsibilities statement in relation to the consolidated 
 
(refer to page 87).
Our business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position, are set out in the 
 




currency and credit risks.

Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors closely monitored the material uncertainties inherent  

of the Group and the debt instruments issued by the Group in 201 1.

enable it to continue operating in the foreseeable future, and 
therefore, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Annual Report.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time  
of approving this Directors’ report are listed on page 49. Having 


• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 

connection with preparing their report of which the  

• the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any 

auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish 


Richard Gillingwater Andrew Formica
Chairman Chief Executive
24 February 2015 24 February 2015
 59
Governance Directors’ remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present our 2014 report on Directors’ remuneration 
for your approval at our Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015  
in the UK and Australia. 

policy and the annual report on remuneration, which provides 
information on how the policy has been implemented during the year. 
As indicated in our last remuneration report, we comply with the UK 

remuneration on a voluntary basis. While our remuneration policy was 
subject to an advisory shareholder vote at our 2014 AGM, following 

to our policy. As such, there will be an advisory vote on our revised 
policy at our 2015 AGM as well as the usual advisory vote on our 
annual report on remuneration. The intention is that our new policy 
will apply for up to three years.
Changes to our policy from 2015 onwards


 
we fully understood the issues which contributed to the low 
favourable vote and to address the key points that were raised within 
the remuneration policy and practices for 2015. A number of changes  
are proposed as a result which are summarised in the table opposite.



Incentive  
(STI) opportunity
• 

base salary (previously 600%) to align 

(L TI) opportunity.

Incentive  
Plan (L TIP)
We announced as part of last year’s 
remuneration report that we would review 
performance measures, vesting and  
holding periods under our L TIP. Following 

• adopt additional holding periods for  
vested L TIP awards taking the holding 
period between grant and ultimate  

• 
measure (TSR) with a broader range  

long term Investment Performance, 
Strategic Considerations) which are 
 
growth and globalisation strategy.
Use of the 

Plan (DEP) and 
Restricted Share 
Plan (RSP)
• We have made changes to the operation 

sentiment and have removed both  
the ability to award matching shares 
(DEP) and the ability to use the RSP  
 
 
in recruitment scenarios.
Mandatory 
shareholding  

Directors
• We have enhanced the mandatory 

Directors to at least 300% of base salary.
Rewarding performance

shareholder consultations since 
the last AGM and are proposing  
a number of changes to our 


Tim How 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
  Base salary 
increases for 

Directors
• We will make periodic, incremental 

in line with the increases more typically 
granted across the wider employee 
population, to avoid the necessity to  

Further to the publication of the updated UK Corporate Governance 
Code, we will be implementing malus and clawback provisions  


circumstances, (including a material downturn in performance  

relating to a material failure of risk management within the  

•  

duration of the relevant vesting/performance periods; and
• clawback to any participant of the above plans and, in respect  

Committee, to cash bonuses, for a period of three years  
post payment/vesting.
In addition to the changes set out above, following shareholder 
feedback, we have materially enhanced our disclosure around 
remuneration to demonstrate the clear link between Henderson’s 

2014 performance highlights and key  
pay outcomes
 

•  
 

•  
of 140% vs 2013); 
•  

• diluted continuing underlying EPS up 13.0% to 14.7 pence per 

•  
of capability and geographical coverage; 
•  
 
our business as evidenced by our stable operating margin and 
improving compensation ratio; 
• the success of key strategic projects, including the completion  
 

• the strengthening of our balance sheet and capital position; and
• total dividend up 12.5% at 9.00 pence per share  

 
 
this is due in no small part to the energy and strategic insight  
 clarity, purpose and vision. The variable remuneration awarded to 
 
to deliver attractive returns for our shareholders and increased 

operating margin and improvement in our compensation ratio  
whilst we continue to invest in the business.
T aking into account performance the performance highlighted above, 

• The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) awarded to the 
 
This represents a payout of 393% of base salary (65% relative  
 of 600% of base salary).
• 
 

• We have increased our disclosure around STI outcomes and 
further detail on the rationale for these awards can be found  
in the annual report on remuneration on pages 77 to 80.
• The performance period for the 2012 L TIP ended on  
31 December 2014. Henderson’s relative T otal Shareholder  
Return (TSR) performance (accounting for 95% of the total 
award) was positioned at 55th percentile relative to the peer 

T aking into account performance against the additional risk  
and sustainability element (5% of outcome assessment), the 

Key pay decisions for 2015
•  
2015 although it should be noted that, as part of wider  
change to remove the internal earnings cap for all participants  

contributions under this plan will now be based on full salary  

•  
 

• There are no proposed changes to the annual fee levels of 

As demonstrated during the course of 2014, we are committed to 
engaging openly with shareholders and actively incorporate feedback 
in our remuneration policies and practices. The Remuneration 
Committee would ask shareholders to consider and approve the 
Directors’ remuneration policy and the annual report on remuneration 
set out in the following pages at our AGM on 30 April 2015.
Tim How
Remuneration Committee Chairman
24 February 2015
 61
Governance Contents
63  Remuneration principles
63 How the views of shareholders are taken into account
63  Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
70  Discretion
70 Minor changes
70  Shareholding policy
70  Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
70 Malus and clawback
70   Differences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors compared  
to other employees
70 External Non-Executive Director positions
71  Approach to remuneration for new Executive Director appointments
71 Service contracts and termination provisions
72 Legacy arrangements
73 Reward scenarios
73 Key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors
73 How the views of employees are taken into account
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION POLICY
62  Directors’ remuneration policy
Remuneration principles
Our remuneration policy remains focused on pay for performance 
and in driving shareholder returns over the long term, while prudently 
managing risk. In doing so, the Committee and the Board recognise 
that our remuneration policies and practices must enable us to 

interests with those of the shareholders. The Committee works 
closely with the Board Risk Committee to ensure that performance  
is not achieved by taking unnecessary risks that fall outside the 
Board’s risk appetite. 

•  
 of the Company by providing total reward opportunities which, 


individual contribution to business performance and sound  
risk management;
•  

 
with the Company’s strategic objectives and time horizons;
• reinforce a strong performance culture through rewards  
which are differentiated based on Company, division, team 
and individual performance; 
• align management interests with those of the Company’s 
shareholders and clients through building appropriate share  
and fund ownership over time; and
• ensure that reward related processes are compliant with  
industry regulations, legislation and market best practice and  
have effective risk management controls. 
How the views of shareholders are  
taken into account
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve 2013’s 
Directors’ remuneration policy and annual report on remuneration are 
provided on page 86 within the 2014 annual report on remuneration.
The Committee uses shareholder feedback to help inform the Group’s 
development of remuneration policy. The Committee actively engages 
with shareholders and investor bodies and welcomes the opportunity  
to discuss their views on relevant issues. As outlined in the Committee 



Committee’s understanding of the key remuneration issues which had 
contributed to the low favourable votes on remuneration at our 201 4 
AGM and to obtain shareholder feedback on a number of proposed 
changes and enhancements to the remuneration policy. The policy  
set out on the following pages takes into account the feedback we 
received during this consultation process. 

The table on the following pages summarises the key elements  
 
if approved by shareholders, will apply from 30 April 2015.
 63
Governance Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Fixed pay elements
Base salary

employees with the personal attributes, skills  

Base salary levels are commensurate with the 

Salaries are reviewed annually, taking account of Group 
and personal performance, the size and scope of the 
role, market reference points and levels of increase for 
the wider employee population. 
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary 
increase on total remuneration.



 
to deliver our strategy.

private medical insurance, disability insurance, life 

offered to other employees. In addition, the Group 


provision may be subject to change from time to time.


eligible employees.
Where the Committee considers it appropriate, other 

Pension
Provide market competitive pension arrangements,  
in a way that does not create an unacceptable  

with employee recruitment and retention, and to  
assist employees in building wealth for their 
retirement years. 


Cash allowances may be provided where relevant 


Pension (SIPP) that allows UK employees  


rebates an element of the national insurance savings  
to employees’ SIPP accounts.
64  Performance metrics


awarded in line with the average increase across the wider 
employee population. 
Where the Committee considers it necessary and 

circumstances. These may include changes in responsibilities, 
changes in regulation, or where a new recruit or promoted 
 
rate initially. 

 
are a small percentage of total remuneration and are set  


monitored and controlled.

Company contribution of up to 1 1.5% of base salary,  
 
is determined on the same basis for all employees.

 65
Governance Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Variable pay elements

 Incentive  
(STI) plan
Reward performance on an annual basis, by reference 

strategic and personal contribution, thereby aligning 

business plan and to the interests of shareholders.

 
 
clients via mutual linkage to the Group share  
price and investment performance of selected  
Henderson funds.

the Group’s bonus pool which is approved each year  
by the Committee. 
Overall pool funding is subject to risk adjustment by the 
Committee taking into account the recommendations  
of Board Risk Committee in relation to the nature and 
incidence of risk events, and an overall assessment of 
risk management relative to the risk appetite statement.

awards at the end of the year to ensure that the 
 
of overall Group performance, business performance 
and performance against individual strategic and 
personal objectives.
All payments are at the discretion of the Committee 
 
of performance.
Mandatory deferral is operated with up to 50% of  
any variable incentive remuneration being deferred. 
Deferred awards are delivered in the form of Group 
shares or selected Henderson funds vesting in  

 
of deferral to respond to regulatory or other changes  
as appropriate.
Individuals are entitled to dividends on deferred  
share awards. 
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
66  Performance metrics
 

 
is 300% of base salary.
The measures which are used to determine STI outcomes  
(and associated weightings) are reviewed annually by the Committee  
and are aligned with the key strategic priorities of the Group.


aligned to the strategic priorities of the Group.
 67
Governance Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Variable pay elements

 Incentive  
Plan (L TIP)
Supports superior business performance over  

shareholders’ interests via the linkage to TSR and  
 
are aligned to the achievement of the Company’s  

L TIP awards are granted in the form of nil cost  
options or restricted shares with vesting of  
awards being conditional upon the achievement  
of performance hurdles over a performance  
period set by the Committee. 

• are subject to an additional holding period post 
vesting, typically until the 5th anniversary of  
grant; and
• 
award date otherwise they lapse.
L TI outcomes are subject to risk adjustment by the 
Committee taking into account the recommendations  
of the Board Risk Committee in relation to the nature 
and incidence of risk events, and an overall assessment 
of risk management over the vesting period.
Employee  
Share Ownership  
Plan (ESOP)
A legacy arrangement offered in February 201 1,  
which provided an opportunity for eligible employees 
to increase their share ownership in the Group, with 
the potential for performance related matching shares 
to be awarded, thereby providing further alignment  
of interests between employees and shareholders.

employees to be able to voluntarily defer annual  
bonus into the plan. 
Depending on the achievement of prescribed TSR  
and Group share price hurdles over performance 
periods ending on 31 December 2013, 2014 and  
2015 for each tranche respectively and continued 
employment over the relevant period, ESOP awards 
would attract a matching share element. The matching 
shares vest in three annual tranches in 2014, 2015 and 
2016 respectively.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
  Performance metrics


annual award up to 300% of base salary.
At least 50% of the awards will be based on share price  
 
and strategic measures.
Employees could elect to defer an amount up to the value  
of their 2010 STI bonus into the plan.
The calculation of the appropriate number of matching shares at  
each vesting date is determined by reference to the relative ranking  
of the Henderson TSR compared to companies within the FTSE 350 
 Relative  Matching 
TSR ranking shares
90% – 100% 3 shares 
80% – 90% 2 shares 
66.6% – 80% 1.5 shares 
50% – 66.6% 0.5 shares 

A further performance condition is that, for any matching shares to be 
awarded, the Company share price has to have grown at least in line  
with CPI over the relevant vesting period. 


vesting date.
 69
Governance Discretion
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 

discretions available to it in connection with such payments) that  
are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the 

• before the policy came into effect; or
• at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment  
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director  
of the Company.
 awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is 

operate the annual bonus and L TIP in accordance with the 
relevant plan rules. 
Minor changes
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set  

purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without 
obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Shareholding policy
The Company operates a mandatory shareholding policy under which 


 
 


share plan.
Choice of performance measures  
and approach to target setting
The Committee applies the principles set out in the FCA’s Code  
on Remuneration. 

performance measures which are aligned with the Group’s strategic 
plan. The targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee, 
 

agreed by the Board as part of the annual business planning cycle 
and taking into account prevailing market conditions and Company/

also agreed annually and are aligned with, and designed to reinforce, 
progress against the Company’s strategic plans. 
At the end of each year, the Committee considers what has been 
achieved. In doing so, it considers an assessment from the Board 
Risk Committee on the degree to which the Company has effectively 
managed its current and potential future business risks and has 
treated investors fairly.


strategy and will be subject to review (and possible amendment)  
in relation to future plan cycles. T argets are set taking into account  
 

Malus and clawback
All variable pay arrangements are subject to provisions which will 
enable the Committee to reduce vesting, or recover value delivered  
if certain circumstances occur. These circumstances include 
misconduct, a misrepresentation of performance, a misstatement of 
results, material downturn in performance (malus only) or a material 
failure of risk management. Value may be recovered for up to three 
years post payment or vesting.
Differences in remuneration policy  
 
to other employees

remuneration policies and structures that apply across the wider 
employee population, although there are some material differences 
 

•  
the FCA Code on Remuneration, on variable performance related 

 
 closely to the interests of shareholders and clients. For other 



•  
 
Group levels of performance and business results, and whose 
 performance of the Company.

 directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist  
in their personal development. All such appointments are subject  
to approval, in advance, by the Board. Where the appointment is 
accepted in furtherance of the Group’s business, any fees received 
are remitted to the Group. If the appointment is not connected to the 


Directors and any fees that they received are provided in the annual 
report on remuneration. Details of outside directorships held by the 

biographies as set out on page 49.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
  Approach to remuneration for new 

 
Director is set in accordance with the terms of the Group’s approved 
remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment. The base 
salary will be guided by the nature and market value of the role,  

take into account internal benchmarks. In certain circumstances, 

• above the market rate (or prior incumbent) in order to attract  
 
 
from a higher annual salary at their previous employer; or 
• below the prevailing market rate (or prior incumbent) with  



arrangements that apply more widely across the Group and, for  

contribution basis.




 
% of base salary
STI L TI
 500% 500%
 300% 300%

elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the 
Group and shareholders, or to replace variable remuneration awards 
or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join  
the Company. Any such awards would only be made subject to the 
validation of the forfeiture of prior employer awards and would  
be set to mirror the nature, vesting dates and any performance 
 
to be achieved) in relation to the remuneration foregone.
In relation to L TIP participation, the Committee may decide to  
grant awards under prevailing L TIP cycles, with such awards being 
 

relation to L TIP cycles which have less than 24 months to run.
For an internal appointment, the policy will be consistent with that  


Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements 
even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with 

of appointment. 

Service contracts and  
termination provisions
The Committee periodically reviews the contractual arrangements 
 

Directors have service agreements terminable on not less than 12 


on recruitment, longer initial terms of up to two years may be 
approved by the Committee provided this is phased out after an initial 

 Appointment
Andrew Formica 05/1 1/2008
Roger Thompson 26/06/2013

 notice has been given by either party, provided they continue to 
receive full pay. Under certain circumstances (such as serious 
misconduct), the Group may terminate employment immediately 
without any liability to make any further payment (other than amounts 
accrued to the date of termination). The agreement also permits the 
Company to terminate employment immediately by paying a sum 


enhancement to contractual terms in the event of a change  
of control. However, the Committee has some limited discretion  
 
 
awards under Company share schemes.
 71
Governance plan and, in relation to HMRC or IRS approved plans, the relevant HMRC or IRS rules. A summary of the leaver provisions in relation to the 

Reason for leaving
Salary and  
 Annual bonus DEP/RSP L TIP
‘Good Leaver’  

• ill health/ 
injury/disability
• redundancy
• employing company 
leaving the Group
• other reason at  
the discretion of  
the Committee
Paid up to  
termination date
Pay in lieu of notice  
if applicable
 
year of termination

Standard deferral 
principles will apply
Will remain eligible  
for receipt with awards 
vesting on the scheduled 
vesting date
In respect of RSP 
awards, any performance 
conditions will be 
assessed in good faith  
in relation to the period 
since the date of grant
Will remain eligible for 
receipt and awards which 
will vest on the scheduled 
vesting date (but will 
remain subject to the 
additional holding period)
 
for the proportion of  
the performance  
period during which the 
individual was employed
Death Paid up to the date  
of death
 
the year of death;  
paid fully in cash;  
accelerated payment
The Committee has the 
discretion to accelerate 
the vesting of the award
The Committee has the 
discretion to accelerate 
the vesting of the award 
and to determine the 
percentage of award that 
should vest, taking into 
account the proportion  
of the vesting period  
that has elapsed and  

performance conditions 


• resignation
• gross misconduct  
or cause
Paid up to  
termination date
 
of termination or for  
the prior year, if the 
resignation or termination 
occurs after the end of  
a performance year but 
before the award has 
been granted or paid
All outstanding  
unvested awards lapse
All outstanding unvested 
awards lapse. In the case 
of L TIP awards that have 
vested, but in respect  
of which the additional 
holding period has not 
 
will only be forfeited  
in the case of gross 
misconduct or 
circumstances in which 
the Committee would 
otherwise be entitled  
to apply clawback
The Committee will, consistent with the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise termination payments. Service agreements are  

Legacy arrangements

(such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share schemes) that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Directors’ 
 
they arise.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
72  Reward scenarios



incentive is based on value at date of award and ignores the impact of any share price movement post award, in line with the regulations.

 

Role
Purpose and link  
to strategy Methodology
Board  
Chairman
T o attract and retain a high 
calibre Board Chairman  
by offering a market  
competitive fee level.
The Chairman is paid an annual fee that covers all his responsibilities. The fee is 
reviewed periodically by the Committee with reference to the time commitment  
 
the collective cap.
1
Other  
 Directors
T o attract and retain  

Directors by offering  
a market competitive  
fee level.

and other members of the main Board Committees (such as Audit, Remuneration, 


 

Chairman) receives an additional supplement, in addition to their basic annual fee,  

The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Board, by reference to the time 

role and the competitive rates of fees paid in comparable FTSE companies. There  

 
would be paid in line with the prevailing fee(s) at the time of appointment. There would be no compensation or other awards for loss  
of compensation.
How the views of employees are taken into account

 
of roles across the Group. However, similar targets and performance conditions, which are carefully chosen to align with the Company’s strategy, 

matter of course, the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group. 
Although the Company does not actively consult with employees in respect of the remuneration policy, employees are able to provide feedback on  
a wide range of issues, including the Group’s remuneration framework, to line managers and to the Human Resources department, via annual staff  

This feedback is taken into account by the Committee as it reviews its current and proposed remuneration policies.
Maximum 50% of Maximum Fixed Pay Maximum 50% of Maximum Fixed Pay
42%
42%
16% 26%
37%
37%
100%
Chief Executive
Andrew Formica
 Roger Thompson
Fixed Pay Short-Term Incentive Long-Term Incentive
£369 
£1,389
£2,409
£459
£2,559
£4,659
100%
41%
41%
18%
45%
45%
10%
1,000
0
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
Reward scenarios (£’000)
 73
Governance Contents
75  Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee
75  External advisers
76  Total remuneration

76 Pension entitlements and contributions 
77  STI for the year ended 31 December 2014
80  L TI vesting in respect of performance periods ended in 2014
81   Y ear-on-year percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive
81  Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
82  Chief Executive remuneration over last six years
82  Relative importance of the spend on pay
82  How the policy will be applied in 2015
84 Outstanding L TI and other share scheme awards

85 Shares personally held
86  Payments within the year to past Directors
86  External directorships
86  Statement of shareholder voting
ANNUAL REPORT
ON REMUNERATION
74  Annual report on remuneration
Role and membership of the  
Remuneration Committee
The Committee reviews and approves, where appropriate,  
the Group’s remuneration plans and overall Human Resources  

• determine annually the remuneration of the Chairman, the 

• approve the policy and terms of the Group’s employee and 

• approve the Group’s Remuneration Policy Statement and the 
remuneration terms and arrangements for Code Staff in 
accordance with the FCA and AIFMD Code on Remuneration; and 
• consider pay levels and employment conditions for all employees. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website. 

Directors. In 2014, it consisted of Tim How (Committee Chairman), 

 not attend if their own remuneration is under consideration.
The Committee meets regularly and takes advice on a range of 
matters, including the scale and composition of total remuneration 

holding similar roles and with similar levels of responsibility in 
comparable FTSE companies. In addition to regular agenda items  
in 2014, the Committee took advice on the implementation of 
 UCITS V regulations and changes to applicable legislation and 
corporate governance guidance in the UK, to ascertain the impact  
on remuneration policies and practices.

the General Counsel, the Global Head of HR, the Head of Reward 

 
is under consideration.


 
 

by the Committee Chairman and the Chairman, and approved by  
the Committee.
 

remuneration.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are 

full attendance at all meetings.

The Committee appoints advisers following a panel selection 
process. During 2014, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP 
(Deloitte), which abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code  
of Conduct, as its primary remuneration adviser. Deloitte have 
provided advice to the Committee on regulatory matters, competitive 
market benchmarking, emerging market practices, remuneration  
plan design and approach to shareholder engagement activities.
Deloitte have no other connection to the Company.
Adviser Services provided 2014 fees
Deloitte Regulatory advice
Market benchmarking
Emerging market practices
Remuneration plan design
Advice on shareholder engagement activities
Deloitte’s fees in respect of the advice provided to the Committee 
 standard terms of business. Deloitte have also provided advice on 
remuneration to management during 2014, as well as providing 

consulting and assurance services.
 75
Governance 2013 2014 2013 2014
Andrew Formica Roger Thompson
1,000
0
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
£’000
 • calendar year or, if applicable, from the date of appointment or to the date  
of resignation.
• Pension includes any additional employer contribution in respect of a 
 • STI is the gross annual discretionary award for the performance year before 
mandatory deferral is applied.
• The split of deferral between Group shares and fund interests is given on page 
80 in the report.
• and lunch allowance.
• 
CSOP, SAYE, RSP and ESOP matching shares which vested during the year.
• interests in Company share plans.
•  
 
T otal remuneration 
 
shown represent earned remuneration in accordance with the Regulations. 
 Base pay Pension STI L TI Other T otal
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Andrew Formica 403 350 3 2 18 16 1,650 1,650 1,603 2,926 65 46 3,741 4,990
Roger Thompson 330 168 1 0 15 9 650 545 741 0 3 0 1,740 722
 Fees 
 2014 2013 2014 2013
Chairman
Richard Gillingwater 200 134 4 2

Sarah Arkle 90 61 1 0
Kevin Dolan 70 60 7 5
Tim How 103 90 0 1
Robert Jeens 93 80 0 0
 66 n/a 1 n/a
• 


during the year.
 
provided to other employees.
Pension entitlements and contributions






 
of funds and to transfer Company shares from maturing share plans into the SIPP. The Group rebates some of the national insurance savings 

Annual report on remuneration continued
76  STI for the year ended 31 December 2014
For the purpose of determining the 2014 bonus, the Committee assessed the performance of the business overall and of each of the 

Financial performance
 

summarised in the Committee Chairman’s letter earlier.

Measure Weighting
Achievement  
(% vs stretch 
target)
Weighted 
achievement  

1
 50% 54.6% 13.7%
One and three year investment performance 15% 92.0% 6.9%
 15% 71.7% 5.4%
Operating margin 10% 50.6% 2.5%
 10% 52.0% 2.6%
 31.1%
 Strategic and personal contributions


• 

• the completion of the Property transaction with the establishment of the TH Real Estate joint venture, which was completed in April 2014;
• 

• 
team in Australia respectively;
• the successful launch of our new brand around the Knowledge. Shared proposition; and
• 


•  
the integration of both Rob and Roger Thompson (who joined in mid 2013) into the core management team along with Phil Wagstaff;
• 
• actively led the introduction/promotion of talent within the organisation, including new heads of Corporate Development and Human 

• improved overall brand and client perceptions; and
• sponsored and spearheaded the Trainee Programme, which brings in nearly 40 trainees into the organisation each year, of which 90%  
go on to secure permanent roles in the industry.

• 
• 
• increased the focus on Corporate Responsibility and community engagement globally; and
• driven strategy development in a number of areas and talent management across the organisation.
 77
Governance Strategic contribution Achievement
• Completion of TH Real Estate joint venture Fully achieved
• Fully achieved
• Fully achieved
• Partially achieved
• Brand launch Fully achieved
• Partially achieved
Overall assessment 75% Overall assessment 75%
Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 18.8% Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 18.8%
Personal contribution Personal contribution
• Build out of senior management team Largely achieved • Largely achieved
• 
and Geneva
Partly achieved • Financial control, cost management and 
budgeting processes
Largely achieved
• 
Henderson
Largely achieved • Corporate Responsibility and community 
engagement
Largely achieved
• Improved overall brand and client perceptions Fully achieved • Strategy development Fully achieved
• Sponsorship of Trainee Programme Fully achieved • T alent management Fully achieved
Overall assessment 75% Overall assessment 80%
Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 18.8% Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 20.0%
 

Annual report on remuneration continued
  • • The targets are set as part of the annual planning process overseen and ultimately approved by the Board. The Target represents the planned outcome for the  
 
 at its discretion.
 • • The targets are set as part of the annual planning process overseen and ultimately approved by the Board. The Target represents the planned outcome for the  
 Committee at its discretion.
Performance 2014 – Chief Executive
Weighting Threshold Target Maximum
Achievement
vs max
Weighted
achievement
vs max
Contribution 
to bonus 
(% of salary)
71.7%
92.0%
50.6%
31.1% 186.6%
54.6%
52.0%
75.0%
75.0%
25.0%
25.0%
18.8%
18.8%
68.0%
112.5%
112.6%
411.7%
0 10 20 30405060 70 8090 100%
Flows
Investment performance
Operating margin

ROE
Strategic objectives
Personal objectives
50.0%
 Weighting Threshold Target Maximum
Contribution 
to bonus 
(% of salary)
71.7%
92.0%
50.6%
31.1% 93.3%
54.6%
52.0%
75.0%
80.0%
18.8%
20.0%
70.0%
56.3%
60.0%
209.6%
0 10 20 30405060 70 8090 100
Flows
Investment performance
Operating margin

ROE
Strategic objectives
Personal objectives
50.0%
25.0%
25.0%
Achievement
vs max
Weighted
achievement
vs max
%
 79
Governance Annual report on remuneration continued
As part of the annual review process, the Committee considered the recommendations of the Board Risk Committee in relation to the nature, 
incidence and materiality of risk issues arising during the year and an overall assessment of risk management relative to the risk appetite 




which, in the Committee’s opinion, may have materially affected the STI outcome. The Committee decided that there were no such events 
during 2014.



T otal 

Cash 

Deferred 

As a % of  
base salary
As a % 

opportunity Group Shares Funds
Andrew Formica 1,650 895 0 755.0 393% 65%
Roger Thompson 650 395 127 .5 127 .5 197% 66%
 •  
to the date of grant.
• The deferred Fund Interests referred to in the table above will be awarded at unit value of the relevant fund(s) at the date that the fund investment is made  
 L TI vesting in respect of performance periods ended in 2014
The performance period for the 2012 L TIP ended on 31 December 2014. The table below shows the calculation to determine the percentage 


against a range of risk and sustainability measures which account for the other 5% of the award and determined that this element should be 
awarded in full.
Metric Condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual % vesting
Relative TSR
TSR vs FTSE  
General Financials 
25% at  
50th percentile
100% at  
75th percentile
55th 
percentile 38%
Risk and sustainability
Subjective assessment by the Committee, taking in to account the recommendations 
of the Board Risk Committee, across a range of risk and sustainability metrics 5%
 43%
The table below shows the vesting details of the 2012 L TIP for Andrew Formica. Roger Thompson was not employed by the Group in 2012 
and hence was not granted an award under the 2012 L TIP. The awards vest on 6 April 2015. The value of the vested shares is based on  

change to the valuation based on the actual share price as at 6 April 2015 will be disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report for 2015.

 
options at grant 

vested
 
lapsed options
Vesting 
share price
L TIP value 

Value of dividends 
accrued on vested 
shares 

T otal value 

Andrew Formica 1,400,000 602,000 798,000 1,252 137 1,389
 •   L TI awards made during 2014

Committee at the date of grant. Vesting of awards is partly after three years (2/3 of initial award) and partly after four years (1/3 of initial 
award). Under the 2014 L TIP, the vesting of awards is subject to the achievement of relevant performance targets and risk and sustainability 

otherwise the award automatically lapses. The primary performance measure under the 2014 L TIP (95%) is relative TSR against a comparator 

over the measurement period. In addition, a further element (5%) is assessed by reference to a range of risk and sustainability metrics.  
The Committee has the power to vary or lapse individual unvested awards in cases of poor risk management, or where results have been 
misstated or where there has been serious misconduct. The Committee also has the ability in certain cases to claw back vested awards.  

 T ype of award
Basis of award 
(% of salary)
Share price 


granted
Face value 
of award 

% of face  
value that  
would vest 
at threshold 
performance 
Vesting determined by 
performance over
Andrew Formica 500% 2.657 790,000 2,099 25%  

Roger Thompson 300% 2.657 372,500 990 25% 

 • • The L TIP awards made to Andrew Formica and Roger Thompson on 1 April 2014 were in the form of nil priced options. This gives them rights over shares at the  
time of vesting subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions over the plan measurement period. 
• The resulting award will be based on the number of options that vest and the prevailing share price at the point of vesting. 

 
that of the average employee. For comparative reasons, STI includes annual bonus, sales commission, performance fees and investment 
incentive schemes.
Employee Salary STI
Andrew Formica 20% 2% 0%
Average employee 5% 2% 10%
 •  
pay is performance related. STI has marginally increased as a result of strong business performance in 2014 compared to that in 2013.  

performance fee bonuses.
T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
This graph provided by T owers Watson (calculated using Datastream data and according to a methodology that is compliant with the UK 
 

Total shareholder return
0
200
400
600
£
Henderson
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2008
 FTSE 350 General Financial Services Index
 
Governance Annual report on remuneration continued


 

2009 2010 201 1 2012 2013 2014
 2,205 3,5 16 6,420 2,802 4,989 3,741
 50% 66% 71% 43% 79% 65%
 100% 100% 100% 0% 78% 43%
Relative importance of the spend on pay


2013 

2014
£m
% 
Change
Cost of remuneration of all employees (continuing operations) 214.5 233.4 8.8%
Dividends on ordinary shares 87 .5 101.8 16.3%
 125.1 258.5 106.2%
 •  
 • How the policy will be applied in 2015
Base salary
The Committee has generally taken a restrained approach to base salary increases, and only made changes where it feels there is a material 

which will be awarded as part of the 2015 compensation review is 3%.


employer and has remained at that level since his appointment in mid 2013. Considering the ‘dual hat’ nature of his role (Chief Financial 
 
(an increase of 3%, which is in line with the increase awarded across the general workforce), with an effective date of 1 April 2015.
 
 
is clearly in the interests of shareholders.
 2014 2015 Increase
Andrew Formica £420,000 0%
Roger Thompson £340,000 3%



compensate for the additional workload and regulatory responsibilities.
 Board  
Chairman
Base  
fee
SID
 fee
Chair Committee 
fee
Committee 
member fee T otal 2014 Total 2015 Increase
Richard Gillingwater 200,000 200,000 200,000 0%
Sarah Arkle 60,000 20,000 10,000 90,000 90,000 0%
Kevin Dolan 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 0%
Tim How 60,000 12,500 20,000 10,000 102,500 102,500 0%
Robert Jeens 60,000 22,500 10,000 92,500 92,500 0%
 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 0%
Total 200,000 300,000 12,500 62,500 50,000 625,000 625,000 0%
 •  
Audit Committee. 
• •   Performance targets for STI and L TI awards to be granted in 2015 


targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure  


•  

•  net new business growth, indicative of our success in delivering investment performance and service, but also in delivering appropriate 
 • 

• two thirds of the award being eligible to vest after three years subject to the plan performance over a three year measurement period; and 
• one third of the award being eligible to vest after four years, subject to the plan performance over a four year measurement period.




Measure Weighting Detail Rationale
Relative TSR 
(measured  
 
the FTSE 350 and  
the ASX 100)
50% <50th percentile 
50th percentile
>75th percentile
0%
25%
100%
TSR remains a key measure of shareholder value creation. The choice 
of comparator indices seeks to encourage outperformance against 
the key indices relevant to our major UK and Australian shareholder 
base, accounting for 89% of our total shareholding. Previous practice 
of using a more bespoke comparator group has been replaced  
due the relatively small number of relevant listed peers which could  
 
of comparators in the peer group.


performance.  
 15%
between 3.5% (25% 
vest) and 7% (100% 
vest) over the relevant 
performance period.
 

to achievement of this objective.
Three year 
investment 
performance
15% Performance relative to 
relevant benchmarks of 
55% (25% vest)  
and 70% (100% vest)  
over the relevant 
performance period.


 
Governance Annual report on remuneration continued
Strategic considerations
Measure Weighting Detail Rationale
Growth in  
operating margin
10% Average annual improvement by 0.5%  
(25% vest) and 1% (100% vest) over  
the relevant performance period.

globalisation and in addition to doubling AUM,  

• 
•  
of our people, who are the Company’s greatest asset.
The strategic measures have been chosen by the  
Commitee as key elements in ensuring the success  
of the strategy.
People strategy 10% Assessment by the Committee of 
performance against our objective of 
recruiting, retaining, incentivising and 
developing our key employees, including 
assessment of culture and conduct,  
retention and employee engagement  
metrics and strength of our succession 


Outstanding L TI and other share scheme awards
The table below shows the vesting results of L TIP awards for 2010 to 2012. The 2013 and 2014 plans may vest, depending on performance 
over the measurement period, in 2016 (2013 L TIP) and 2017 and 2018 (2014 L TIP) respectively. The table also shows the outstanding 

2010 L TIP 201 1 L TIP 2012 L TIP 2013 L TIP 2014 L TIP
Awards made March 2010 March 201 1 March 2012 March 2013 May 2014
Performance period 

Performance criteria TSR vs FTSE General Financials  
 

TSR vs FTSE General Financials (95%) 
Risk and sustainability (5%) 

 
 
Straight line between these points
 
 
Straight line between these points
Vesting dates 4 March 2013 1 March 2014 6 April 2015 6 April 2016 1 April 2017 (2/3) 
1 April 2018 (1/3)
 Awards lapsed 1 March 2019 6 April 2020 6 April 2021 1 April 2022 (2/3) 
1 April 2023 (1/3)
Outcome TSR of 7% 
36th percentile 
0% vested
TSR of 86% 
68th percentile 
78% vested
TSR of 1 15.5% 
55th percentile 
43% vested
Performance 
period not  
complete
Performance 
period not  
complete
Vesting date share 
price
 n/a n/a
 Plan T ype
2012 award  
vests 2015
2013 award  
vests 2016
2014 award  
vests 201 7 /18
Interest at  
31 December 2014
Andrew Formica L TIP Options 1,400,000 1,050,000 790,000 3,240,000
Roger Thompson L TIP Options – 350,000 372,500 722,500
 • • The 2012 L TIP will vest on 6 April 2015 a vesting percentage of 43%, and hence 798,000 of these options will lapse at that date. 

 

  Movement during year
 Plan T ype
Interest at  
31 December 
2013 Awarded 
Vested 2014 

Vested 2014 

Vested in 
previous years 
 Lapsed
Interest at  
31 December 
2014
Andrew Formica SAYE Options 9,736 4,205––––13,941 
BAYE Shares 53,324 4,153 –––– 57 ,477 
DEP/ESOP Shares 615,812 307 ,905 – 5 13,1 75 – – 410,542 
L TIP Options 3,450,000  790,000 – 780,000 – 220,000  3,240,000 
T otal outstanding interests in Group share schemes 3,721,960
T otal shares held outright outside of Group share schemes 6,721,249
Total interests in Group shares 10,443,209
Roger Thompson BAYE Shares 714  2,247 –––– 2,961 
(appointed RSP Shares 342,653 – – 342,653––– 
26/06/13) LTIP Options 350,000 372,500 –––– 722,500 
DEP Shares – 37 ,549 ––––37,549
SAYE Options – 8,411–––– 8,411
T otal outstanding interests in Group share schemes 771,421
T otal shares held outright outside of Group share schemes 181,606
Total interests in Group shares 953,027

 
 



Value 

Multiple of base 
salary (rounded)
Andrew Formica 13,980
Roger Thompson 378
 • 
Shares personally held 
 

24 Feb 2015
31 Dec 2014
(or date of 
appointment)
31 Dec 2013
(or date of appointment)
Executive Directors
 6,721,249 6,721,249 6,035,867
 181,606 181,606 –
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Richard Gillingwater 15,000 15,000 15,000
Other Non-Executive Directors
Sarah Arkle 20,663 20,663 20,663
Kevin Dolan 3,083 3,083 3,083
Tim How 1 1,780 11,780 1 1,780
Robert Jeens 14,694 14,694 14,694
 1 1,082 11,082 –
Total 6,979,157 6,979,157 6,101,087
 
Governance Payments within the year to past Directors
Payments made to past Directors during 2014, in relation to awards vesting under relevant Company share plans, are set out in the  

 Plan T ype Vested Lapsed
Value vested
 Shirley Garrood SAYE
BAYE
ESOP
LTIP
Options
Shares
Shares
Options
7,57 3
53,783
244,238
312,000
2,1 63
0
0
88,000
1 6,1 23
1 4 1,61 1
585,687
705,275
David Jacob BAYE
DEP/ESOP
DEP/ESOP
LTIP
Shares
Shares
Fund units
Shares
31,670
309,1 10
2,587
292,500
0
0
0
82,500
72,398
714,250
82,885
702,995
James Darkins BAYE
SAYE
DEP/ESOP
DEP/ESOP
LTIP
Shares
Options
Shares
Fund units
Options
56,123
6,220
134,720
281
234,000
0
3,5 16
0
0
66,000
147 , 77 2
14,990
324,733
2,591
586,467

Andrew Formica is a member of the Board of the Investment Association and of the Board of TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited,  
for which he receives no remuneration. 
Statement of shareholder voting

Directors’  
remuneration policy Prior year
Directors’ 
 remuneration report Prior year
Votes cast in favour 561,937 ,891 72.2% n/a 698,57 4,933 89.7% 701,583,302 93%
Votes cast against 216,129,042 27 .8% n/a 79,883,565 10.3% 43,653,059 6%
 – – n/a – – 6,781,7 40 1%
T otal votes cast 778,066,933 100.0% n/a 778,458,498 100.0% 752,018,101 100%
Abstentions 13,254,986 – n/a 12,794,480 – 165,948 –
The Committee was disappointed with the voting outcomes on remuneration (especially in relation to the Directors’ report on remuneration)  
at the 2014 AGM. As a result, the Committee has undertaken a thorough review of the policies and practices which it believes contributed  


Annual report on remuneration continued
  Directors’ responsibilities statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts which includes the Directors’ report, the Strategic report, 

statements for the Group and Parent Company in accordance with 
 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 

generally accepted accounting principles. The Directors have  
 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRS).



• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS  
8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates  
and Errors and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are  
reasonable and prudent;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the  
 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other  
events and conditions on the Group’s and Company’s  

•  state that the Group and Company have complied with  
IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and  

•  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the  
Company will continue in business.


transactions which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 


responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the 
Company, and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.

• 


31 December 2014;
• the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 and a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group; 
• the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy and is fair, balanced 
and understandable; and
• the accounting records have been properly maintained. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  

website, www.henderson.com/IR. Legislation in Jersey and the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 


Andrew Formica 
Chief Executive
24 February 2015
Roger Thompson 

24 February 2015
 
Governance Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Henderson Group plc

Our opinion

• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s 

• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 

European Union; and
•  
the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
What we have audited

• the Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial  
Position as at 31 December 2014;
• the Consolidated and Company Income Statements and the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive  
Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows for  
the year then ended;
• 
for the year then ended; and
• 

 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
• 

and the gain on disposal of the property business.
Scope
• The Group comprises a number of subsidiaries, the majority of 
which are UK incorporated entities. The accounting for overseas 
entities is centralised, primarily in the UK. Therefore, the audit work 
performed by the UK Group engagement team included some 
testing relating to overseas entities.
• The UK Group engagement team conducted all audit work in 

• T aken together, the territories and functions in the scope of our 
audit work accounted for 97% of Group revenues, and 85% of net 

 intangible assets and the gain on disposal of the property 

balances in other entities across the Group. 

• Disposal of the property business and recognition of the 
investment in the resulting property joint venture
• 
• Migration of the accounting records to a new general ledger
• Consolidation of funds
Recurring areas of focus
• Recognition of management fees and performance fees
• Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review
• 

   

 How our audit addressed the area of focus
Disposal of the property business and recognition of the investment in the resulting property joint venture
 
 judgements and estimates and note 9.1 and 15.2 for further information
During the year the Group completed the disposal of the European, 


•  
a newly formed entity, TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited  
 
as part of the transaction; and 
• third party in whom the Group has no remaining interest.
We focused on the accounting for this transaction due to the 

 
of businesses, and the disclosures relating to such transactions. 
We obtained and read the Sale and Purchase agreements for the 
transactions to understand the terms on which the disposals had 
been made. We also obtained the completion accounts, which have 
been agreed by the Group with the purchaser which state the net 
assets of the business disposed of at the date of disposal.
We independently recalculated the gain recognised on disposal  
by agreeing the Directors’ calculation to the terms of the relevant 
agreements and other corroborative evidence, such as the 
completion accounts. We also traced the consideration received 
 in cash to the bank statement and agreed a sample of disposal 
costs to supporting documentation such as invoices.
We obtained and read the agreements detailing the Group’s 40% 
investment in TH Real Estate and recalculated the initial carrying 
value of this investment. We agreed the immaterial change in the 
carrying value of the investment between the investment date and  

from TH Real Estate and other supporting documentation.
Based on the results of our audit work, the gain on disposal of  
the property business, the recognition of the investment in the  

 
of the transactions and did not identify any omissions or  
inaccuracies with the audit evidence obtained.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 

We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing  

particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 

estimates that involved making assumptions and considering  
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits,  
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias  
by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement  
due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 

 

and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should 

by our audit.
 
Governance How our audit addressed the area of focus

  
 judgements and estimates and note 32.1 for further information


 

with business combinations, particularly the judgements involved in 
valuing intangible assets (investment management contracts) and 
deferred contingent consideration.
The key assumptions used by the Directors in valuing the investment 
management contracts and deferred contingent consideration relate 

over the forecast periods since this drives the revenue and cash 

When valuing the investment management contracts the Directors 

to be generated. The timeframes used for valuing the deferred 

Sale and Purchase agreement.
We obtained and read the Sale and Purchase agreement to 

Directors’ business combination calculations that resulted in  
the goodwill and other intangible assets balances.

• Fair value of intangible assets – we obtained the Directors’ 
valuation model, checked the mathematical accuracy and tested 
the inputs and assumptions to the calculation. We focused on  
the key assumptions in respect of AUM. This included assessing 
the attrition rate, the asset performance rate and the period  
 
against independent sources. We also considered the historical 
 
asset performance rates achieved in the past. 
• Deferred contingent consideration – we obtained the Directors’ 
assessment of the most likely outcome regarding future 
consideration which may become payable if Geneva meets certain 

payments is between US$nil and US$80 million. The Directors’ 
assessment is based on forecast information and a probability 
assessment of different scenarios materialising. We obtained the 
valuation model used by the Directors and checked that it was 
mathematically accurate and that the methodology used was in 
accordance with the Sale and Purchase agreement. The model  
is primarily based on assumptions in respect of changes in AUM 

judgements made by the Directors which impact AUM are in 
 these assumptions against independent sources and the  
historical results of Geneva in assessing the reasonableness  

For both of the above points, we challenged the assumptions used 
and, in doing so, we considered similarities and differences between 
the two valuation models to assess whether they were appropriate. 
 changing the assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives.  
We discussed the likelihood of such changes in the assumptions  
with the Directors and the Audit Committee and concluded that the 
assumptions are within an acceptable range, although uncertainties 
 compared to the actual outturn. 

of accounting standards, particularly in respect of the areas of 
inherent estimation uncertainty. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
  How our audit addressed the area of focus
Migration of the accounting records to a new general ledger
During the year the Group implemented a new general ledger 
system. The accounting records from the previous system were 
migrated onto the new system, effective from 1 July 2014.
 
of an error if it were to occur, meant that we spent additional time  
on this as part of our audit to determine that the data had been 
completely and accurately migrated. 
We understood, evaluated and tested the operating effectiveness  
of the key controls that management had put in place to ensure 
the complete and accurate transfer of data between the two general 
ledger systems. This included that appropriate testing had been 
performed on the system and appropriate approvals had been 
obtained prior to the system going live on 1 July 2014. We also 
 
key automated processes such as the consolidation.
We tested key reconciliations between the two systems and, on  
a sample basis, agreed balances from the old system to the new 
system and vice versa.
Based on the above tests, the migration of accounting records  
was performed appropriately.
Consolidation of funds
  
 judgements and estimates and note 33 for further information

statements’, was introduced during the year which changed the 


Due to the relationship between asset managers and the funds  


vehicles. Each situation needs to be individually assessed by the 

means that we have placed additional focus on it in the current year. 
As a result of the introduction of IFRS 10, the 2013 and 2012 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position have also been 
restated for comparability. 
We obtained and evaluated the assessment performed by the 
Directors of all entities in which the Group has an economic interest 

IFRS 10. We agreed the data used in the assessment to relevant 
agreements and supporting evidence.
We gave particular consideration to funds where the Group is also 

reasonableness of the assumptions made by the Directors such as 

these assumptions with reference to industry practice.
We obtained and read the relevant documents to check the Group’s 
 consolidation of these funds by performing procedures over the 
assets and liabilities of the funds through a combination of agreeing 






Based on the work performed, we determined that the Directors’ 
assessment of those entities in which the Group has an economic 
 

 funds was also considered to be in accordance with IFRS 10.

consistency with the work above and our understanding of the  
Group and assessed that they were appropriate and in compliance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
 91
Governance Recurring areas of focus

and are an integral part of the business.
Recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recognition of management fees and performance fees
   
 
note 3 for further information
Management and performance fees drive the performance of the 
business and are disclosed within ‘Gross fee and deferred income’, 
which is the largest balance in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The recognition of management and performance fees is  
dependent on the terms of the underlying investment management 
 
the funds it manages. 
• Management fees: Calculated as a percentage of AUM and 
varies across different funds and products. Management fees are 
accounted for net of rebates. 
• Performance fees: As is normal industry practice, the Group 
has a number of bespoke arrangements in place which generate 

predetermined level. The basis of calculating performance fees 


reporting period. 
The components of management and performance fees described 
above create a risk that fees are calculated incorrectly and/or 

We understood and evaluated the relevant controls, systems and 

operating effectiveness through controls testing. This included 
obtaining and reading the relevant controls reports for the Third  
 
where activities are outsourced, issued by an independent auditor in 
accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such 
work, to identify those key controls on which we could place reliance 
to provide audit evidence. Where the period covered by the controls 

gap period and obtained bridging letters where necessary.
Our audit approach incorporated the use of data auditing tools to  
test individual revenue streams. We independently recalculated 
certain management fees, rebates and performance fees based on 
the terms within the IMCs, a sample of which were agreed to original 
source documents. We used fund valuation and holdings data  
from the systems at Henderson and at the TPAs and TAs in our 
calculations. The controls testing we performed provided audit 
evidence over the integrity of this data. We then reconciled the 
output from our data auditing tools, and other testing, to the  

Our work also included the consideration of fees recognised  
 
the contractual terms of performance fees to test that they had  
been appropriately interpreted, calculated and recorded in the  
correct period. 
Based on the controls and substantive testing performed, we  
found the recognition of management and performance fees to  
be appropriate and recorded in the correct period.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
92  Recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review
   
 judgements and estimates and note 14 for further information
 


Directors’ to make judgements in determining whether intangible 
assets are impaired or not. The valuation model used to assess  
the carrying value of goodwill is based on a number of subjective 
judgements about future performance. The main assumptions are in 

In addition to the above, the subjective nature of impairment 
indicators makes this an area of focus.
We obtained, understood, evaluated and challenged the Directors’ 
value in use calculation and methodology for valuing goodwill. The 
 and the discount rate applied. Our work included evaluating the  
 evidence and assessing the reasonableness of the underlying 

• compared the Directors’ forecasts to the latest Board approved 

• challenged the Directors’ key assumptions for long term growth 
rates by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts; and
• challenged the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for 
the Company. 
Our procedures also included considering whether there were  
any indicators that the IMCs were impaired with reference to  
recent performance.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to 

changes in assumptions would result in an impairment. We discussed 
the likelihood of such changes in the assumptions with the Directors 
 

conclusion that there is no impairment of goodwill or intangible 
assets was consistent with the audit evidence obtained.
 93
Governance Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
Recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus

  
 judgements and estimates and note 1 1 for further information


The likelihood of an error occurring is increased by the number  
of schemes operated by the Group (each of which has its own 
scheme rules), the potential for misinterpreting the scheme rules,  
the judgements involved in calculating the fair value of the awards 


We obtained and read the documentation relating to each of the 
material employee incentive schemes in operation and assessed the 


In relation to new awards granted during the year, we obtained the 

• assessed the appropriateness of the valuation methodology with 
reference to generally accepted industry standards;
• 
price on vesting, to source documentation;
• challenged the assumptions applied by the Directors, particularly 
the discount rate, hurdle rate, risk free rate, option life, dividend 
yield, market performance conditions and volatility. This included 
recalculating certain inputs based on market data and the terms  
of the options; and
• 
We also evaluated and challenged the assumptions relevant to 

service conditions assumptions by identifying reasonably possible 

 
of those alternatives actually occurring.
The results of our testing allowed us to conclude that the 
assumptions used were reasonable.
 attention to the accuracy of data used in the calculation, namely  

awards made. The results of our testing allowed us to determine that 


94  How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 

statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure 
of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group’s accounting process is structured around a primary 
 maintain their own accounting records but use the same, integrated 
general ledger system. 
 
in the UK by the Group engagement team which involved, in this our 

working papers. 
T aken together, the territories and functions in the scope of our audit 
work accounted for 97% of Group revenues, and 85% of net assets. 


assets and the gain on disposal of the property business) and we 

across the Group. 
Materiality



 
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 

Overall Group materiality
How we determined it

amortisation of intangible assets and the 

property business.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied



the current year by eliminating the impact 
 

against which the Group’s performance  
is commonly measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 

as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 

Going concern
As noted in the Directors’ report on page 59, the Directors have 

using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern 

resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them 

were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting



• materially inconsistent with the 

statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group and Company 
 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no 
 
report arising from  
this responsibility.
The statement given by the Directors on 
page 87 , in accordance with provision  
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 

Annual Report taken as a whole to be  
fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s and 
Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group and Company 
 
our audit.
We have no 

arising from this 
responsibility.
The section of the Annual Report on  
 
the Code, describing the work of the  
Audit Committee does not appropriately  
address matters communicated by  
us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 

arising from this 
responsibility.
 95
Governance Propriety of accounting records and information  

• 

• proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company,  

branches not visited by us; or
•  
the accounting records and returns.

Corporate governance statement
 
the Corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Other voluntary reporting
Opinion on other matters 
In our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 


and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors

set out on page 87 , the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
 
a true and fair view.

statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
 Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only  
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Article 
1 13A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 

agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 


misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes  

• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s  
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 

•  
by the Directors; and
• 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing  
the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming  
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the  



reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 

apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 

audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Parwinder Purewal 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors 
London, United Kingdom 
24 February 2015
a.  The maintenance and integrity of the Henderson Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
 
they were initially presented on the website.
 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
96  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Contents
98   Consolidated Income Statement
99   Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
100   Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
101  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
102 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
103  Company Income Statement
103   Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
103  Company Statement of Financial Position
104 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
104  Company Statement of Cash Flows
105 Notes to the Financial Statements
 97
Financial statements Financial statements
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013

Underlying  
 
£m
Acquisition  
related and 
non-recurring 
items (note 7)  
£m
Total  
£m
Underlying  
 


related and 

items (note 7) 

T otal  

Income
Gross fee and deferred income 3 651.2 – 651.2 578.2 – 578.2
 3 (132.4) – (132.4) (1 16.9) – (1 16.9)
 518.8 – 518.8 461.3 – 461.3
Income/(loss) from associates  
and joint ventures 15.2 5.1 (7.2) (2.1) 1.8 – 1.8
Finance income 3 10.1 11.5 21.6 10.2 – 10.2
 534.0 4.3 538.3 473.3 – 473.3
Expenses 
 4.1 (329.9) (1.3) (331.2) (293.4) (5.1) (298.5)
Amortisation and depreciation (4.7) (53.7) (58.4) (3.3) (5 1.8) (55.1)
 (334.6) (55.0) (389.6) (296.7) (56.9) (353.6)
 6 (11.6) (1.5) (13.1) (1 1.1) (1.3) (12.4)
 (346.2) (56.5) (402.7) (307 .8) (58.2) (366.0)
 
continuing operations 187.8 (52.2) 135.6 165.5 (58.2) 107 .3
 (20.6) 11.9 (8.7) (17 .9) 17 .8 (0.1)
 
continuing operations 167.2 (40.3) 126.9 147 .6 (40.4) 107 .2
Discontinued operation
 – 9.1 7.6 140.2 147.8 24.6 (4.5) 20.1
 – 9.1 (1.3) (14.9) (16.2) (2.9) 0.7 (2.2)
 – 
discontinued operation 6.3 125.3 131.6 21.7 (3.8) 1 7 .9
 
total operations 195.4 88.0 283.4 190.1 (62.7) 127 .4
 8 (21.9) (3.0) (24.9) (20.8) 18.5 (2.3)

owners of the parent 173.5 85.0 258.5 169.3 (44.2) 125.1

parent arises from:
Continuing operations 126.9 107 .2
Discontinued operation 131.6 17 .9
258.5 125.1
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
from continuing operations
Basic 10.3 11.7p 10.1p
Diluted 10.3 11.1p 9.4p
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
from total operations
Basic 10.4 23.8p 1 1.8p
Diluted 10.4 22.7p 1 1.0p
  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
201 3  

 258.5 125.1


 0.1 (5.6)
 
of foreign operations (1.9) –

 3.5 0.7
 0.6 –
 (6.7) –
 8 0.1 0.1


 21.2 17 .6 (26.4)
On other items 0.1 –
 8 0.1 0.1
 13.5 (31.1)
Total comprehensive income after tax 272.0 94.0
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 273.6 94.0
 (1.6) –
272.0 94.0
 99
Financial statements Financial statements continued
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
201 3  
(restated) 

201 2  
(restated)  

Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 677 .9 637 .9 71 7 .7
 74.4 5.5 8.4
 16 15.1 17 .0 18.0
 21.2 128.1 104.4 130.2
 23 36.0 39.3 40.3
Trade and other receivables 18 1.3 37 .0 29.6
 932.8 841.1 944.2
Current assets
 17 71.0 62.1 68.0
 17 35.9 19.6 14.2
 2.3 2.1 2.0
Trade and other receivables 18 275.9 216.8 146.1
 19.1 234.5 21 7 .0 197 .5
  619.6 5 17 .6 427 .8
 9.2 84.8 105.8 –
Total assets 1,637.2 1,464.5 1,372.0
Non-current liabilities
Debt instrument in issue 20 149.4 148.9 148.5
Trade and other payables 24 44.6 50.1 35.1
 21.2 8.5 7.9 7 .2
Provisions 22 9.7 1 1.6 12.1
 23 38.9 49.4 69.1
 251.1 267 .9 272.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 316.0 337 .7 293.8
Provisions 22 3.1 6.0 9.9
 23.0 1 1.0 14.6
  342.1 354.7 318.3
 9.2 26.0 5.6 –
Total liabilities 619.2 628.2 590.3
Net assets 1,018.0 836.3 781.7
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25.2 142.4 140.4 139.3
Share premium 743.9 708.6 693.8
Own shares held (94.7) (69.4) (100.8)
Translation reserve (1.7) 0.1 5.7
Revaluation reserve 9.8 10.7 9.9
 216.4 41.9 29.7
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,016.1 832.3 777 .6
 1.9 4.0 4.1
Total equity  1,018.0 836.3 781.7


Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
  For the year ended 31 December 2014
Share  
capital  

Share  
premium  

Own  
shares  
held  

T ranslation  
reserve  

Revaluation 
reserve  

 
loss  
reserve 


attributable to 
owners of the 
parent  

 
controlling 
interests  

T otal  
 

 139.3 693.8 (100.8) 5.7 9.9 29.7 777 .6 4.1 781.7
 – – – – – 125.1 125.1 – 125.1

 – – – (5.6) 0.8 (26.3) (31.1) – (31.1)

 – – – (5.6) 0.8 98.8 94.0 – 94.0
 – – – – – (78.6) (78.6) – (78.6)
 – – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Purchase of own shares – – (9.8) – – – (9.8) – (9.8)
Vesting of share schemes – – 56.4 – – (56.4) – – –
Issue of shares for share schemes 1.1 14.8 (15.2) – – – 0.7 – 0.7
 
 – – – – – 35.0 35.0 – 35.0
 – – – – – 13.4 13.4 – 13.4
 140.4 708.6 (69.4) 0.1 10.7 41.9 832.3 4.0 836.3
 – – – – – 258.5 258.5 – 258.5

 – – – (1.8) (0.9) 17.8 15.1 (1.6) 13.5

 – – – (1.8) (0.9) 276.3 273.6 (1.6) 272.0
 – – – – – (92.9) (92.9) – (92.9)
 – – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Purchase of own shares – – (33.0) – – – (33.0) – (33.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 44.2 – – (44.2) – – –
Issue of shares for share schemes 2.0 35.3 (36.5) – – – 0.8 – 0.8

 – – – – – 35.3 35.3 – 35.3
 142.4 743.9 (94.7) (1.7) 9.8 216.4 1,016.1 1.9 1,018.0
 
Financial statements Financial statements continued
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
2013
(restated)  

 19.2 123.0 1 7 4.9

 (76.1) (5.2)

 – disposal of Property business, net of cash disposed 104.7 –
 – disposal of interests in associates 13.7 –
 – disposal of seed capital investments 37 .9 12.2
 – 0.4 –
Dividends from associates and distributions from joint ventures 3.8 4.2

 – seed capital investments (77.1) (42.6)
 – 16 (1.6) (2.8)
 – computer software intangible assets 14 (4.1) (5.3)
 – interests in associates and joint ventures (0.8) (2.2)
 0.8 (41.7)

Proceeds from issue of shares 7.3 6.0
Purchase of own shares (33.0) (9.8)
 12 (92.9) (78.6)
Interest paid on debt instruments in issue (10.9) (10.9)
 28.8 –
 (12.2) –
 (112.9) (93.3)
 (0.4) (5.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10.5 34.8
 232.3 197 .5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 242.8 232.3
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents

2014  
£m
201 3  
(restated)  

 19.1 234.5 21 7 .0
 9.2 8.3 15.3
Total cash and cash equivalents 242.8 232.3

2014  
£m
201 3  

 0.2 (0.7)
 0.2 (0.7)
  Company Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
201 3  

Dividends received 98.4 82.0
 (3.0) (1.9)
 95.4 80.1
 8 – –
 95.4 80.1
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
2014  
£m
201 3  

 95.4 80.1
Total comprehensive income after tax 95.4 80.1
Company Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
201 3  

Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 15.1 1,030.8 1,002.0
  1,030.8 1,002.0
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 2.6 –
 17 34.6 18.7
 19.1 7.3 8.8
  44.5 27 .5
Total assets 1,075.3 1,029.5
Liabilities
 24 7.8 6.4
Current trade and other payables 24 147 .4 108.6
Total liabilities 155.2 1 15.0
Net assets 920.1 914.5
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25.2 142.4 140.4
Share premium 743.9 708.6
Own shares held (94.7) (69.4)
 128.5 134.9
Total equity  920.1 914.5


Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
 
Financial statements Financial statements continued

For the year ended 31 December 2014
Share  
capital  

Share  
premium  

Own shares  
held  

 
loss reserve  

T otal  
 

 139.3 693.8 (100.8) 154.8 887 .1
 – – – 80.1 80.1
 – – – (78.6) (78.6)
Purchase of own shares – – (9.8) – (9.8)
Vesting of share schemes – – 56.4 (56.4) –
Issue of shares for share schemes 1.1 14.8 (15.2) – 0.7
 – – – 35.0 35.0
 140.4 708.6 (69.4) 134.9 914.5
 – – – 95.4 95.4
 – – – (92.9) (92.9)
Purchase of own shares – – (33.0) – (33.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 44.2 (44.2) –
Issue of shares for share schemes 2.0 35.3 (36.5) – 0.8
 – – – 35.3 35.3
 142.4 743.9 (94.7) 128.5 920.1
Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014

2014  
£m
201 3  


 95.4 80.1
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 19.3 21.7 7.1
 117 .1 87 .2

Proceeds from issue of shares 7.3 6.0
Purchase of own shares (33.0) (9.8)
 (92.9) (78.6)
 (118.6) (82.4)
 (1.5) 4.8
 8.8 4.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 19.1 7.3 8.8
  Group and Company

statement of compliance with IFRS
 
31 December 201 4 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
Directors on 24 February 201 5 and the respective statements of 

Henderson Group plc is a public limited company incorporated  
 ordinary shares are traded on the LSE and CDIs are traded on the ASX. 
 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and  
the provisions of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
2. Accounting policies 

Basis of preparation



 
GBP and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred 


Basis of consolidation

 subsidiaries and consolidated structured entities (together, 
consolidated entities), associates and joint ventures as at 31 
December each year. 

entities are prepared to the same year end date as that of the 

entities are prepared under either IFRS or local GAAP. Where 
prepared under local GAAP, balances reported by consolidated 
 

 
the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from  

obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that  

has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.

and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more  
of the elements of control.

 
 
 
to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated  
in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity, without  

Group loses control over a consolidated entity, it derecognises the 


recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Any investment 
retained is recognised at fair value.


accounted for as subsidiaries, consolidated structured entities or 
 
 

investment management and other contractual agreements. The 
Group’s investment in associates, where the Group has the ability  
 
 
 presents its share of its economic interest in these investments in 

Presentation of the Consolidated Income Statement 
The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its 
Consolidated Income Statement. The columnar format enables the 
Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of  

 


 
on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement. 

•  



• 
considering both size and nature.
These items are disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation 
of the Group’s results and are analysed further in note 7 .
Income recognition
Gross fee income 
Fee income includes management fees and performance fees 
(including earned carried interest), net of rebates. Management  
fees are recognised in the accounting period in which the associated 
investment management service is provided. Performance fees are 
recognised when the prescribed performance hurdles are achieved 
and it is probable that a fee will crystallise as a result. 
 
Financial statements continued
Commissions
Commission and rebates on management fees are accounted for  
on an accruals basis and are recognised in the accounting period  
in which the associated management fee is earned.

 Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective 
interest rate method. Other net investment income is recognised  
on the date that the right to receive payment has been established. 



 

of these schemes are held separately, from the Group’s general 
assets, in trustee administered funds. 
 projected unit credit method. 
The obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future 
 
 


schemes is recognised over the employees’ service lives, based upon 
the actuarial cost for the accounting period, having considered the  

Recognised actuarial gains and losses are included in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income in the accounting period in which 


Consolidated Income Statement as and when they become payable.
 



(depending on vesting conditions) over the vesting period, based  
on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Based  
on the Group’s estimate, the determination of fair value, using the 
 
effects of market performance and behavioural considerations.
 
 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.











available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred  

investments in consolidated entities, branches, associates and joint 
ventures where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences and where the reversal of the temporary 
differences is not anticipated in the foreseeable future. 

in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, 

substantively enacted by the reporting date.

Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement  

and not in the Consolidated Income Statement. 

 



payables in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is GBP. Transactions in 
 prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency monetary 
balances at the reporting date are converted at the prevailing 
 
at fair value or cost are translated at the rates prevailing at the date 
when the fair value or cost is determined. Gains and losses arising  
on retranslation are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement, 
 changes in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations whose functional currency is not GBP are translated at 


Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income to the translation 
reserve. Where net investment hedge accounting is applied using 
forward foreign currency contracts, the fair value movement on these 
contracts is also recognised within the translation reserve. In the 
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  period in which an operation is disposed of, translation differences 
previously recognised in the translation reserve are recognised in  
the Consolidated Income Statement.
Business combinations

method. The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of the 


 

contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair 

 

 
is recognised as goodwill. Any costs incurred in relation to a  

Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is 

combination, and discounted where the time value of money is 
material. The determination of the fair value is based on discounted 

each performance target and the discount factor applied. When the 



discounting has been applied. 
Goodwill

 
1 January 2004 is carried at its value on 1 January 2004 less  

Goodwill arising on investments in associates and joint ventures is 

Impairment of goodwill

changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 
impaired. For this purpose, management prepares a valuation for the 
Group’s cash generating unit based on its value in use. The value in 


 
of capital. Where the value in use is less than the carrying amount,  
an impairment is recognised. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately through the Consolidated Income Statement and  
 
 

disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation  
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. 
Investment management contracts


subsidiaries. Such contracts are recognised at the present value of 


 contracts, currently estimated at between three and eight years.
Computer software
The costs of purchasing and developing computer software are 

 
of the assets can be measured reliably. Computer software is 

Computer software is amortised over a period of three to seven years. 
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments by the Company in subsidiary undertakings are held at 
cost less any impairment in value where circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
 The Group’s investment in associates, where the Group has the 
 
 method of accounting. Investments are recognised initially at cost 
where purchased for cash, or at the fair value of shares received 
 
 

associate or joint venture, less any dividends or distributions received 
by the Group. The Consolidated Income Statement includes the 

ownership, if shorter.
Impairment of assets  
 At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 

amount, being the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell, 
and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 

average cost of capital.

amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
 
with a view to resale, such as seed capital investments in funds, as 
held for sale, as their carrying amounts will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.

 
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
Assets and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount, and fair value less costs to sell. 
 
Financial statements continued




derecognised from held for sale and consolidated line by line in the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
Discontinued operation
The Group has presented its Property business as a discontinued 


incurred by the Group due to the disposal of the Property business, are 
also included within the discontinued operation line in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. Management has determined that the Property 
business represented a major line of business and therefore should  
be reported as a discontinued operation.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value in the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group 
becomes party to the contractual provisions of an instrument. The  


transaction costs are immediately recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the 
 where they have been transferred and the Group has also transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Financial 
liabilities cease to be recognised when the obligation under the 

Financial assets

date, being the date when the purchase or sale becomes contractually 
due for settlement. Delivery and settlement terms are usually 
determined by established practices in the market concerned.

investment schemes are designated as either fair value through 




 

 trusts and seed capital investments designated as fair value through 


included in the Consolidated Income Statement. Where investments  
in the Group’s fund products are held against outstanding deferred 
compensation liabilities, any movement in the fair value of these  
assets will be offset by a corresponding movement in the deferred 
compensation liability in the Consolidated Income Statement.

 
from changes in fair value which are not part of a designated  
hedge relationship are recognised in the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income. When an asset is disposed of, the 
cumulative changes in fair value, previously recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, are taken to the 
Consolidated Income Statement in the current accounting period.


date and cost or, if these have been previously revalued, the fair value 

assets are calculated as the difference between the net sale 
proceeds and cost or amortised cost. 

it is considered an indication of impairment. In such an event, the 
investment is written down to fair value and the amounts previously 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
in respect of cumulative changes in fair value, are taken to the 
Consolidated Income Statement as an impairment charge.
Trade and other receivables and cash
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 day payment terms,  
 
invoice amount. When the time value of money is material, the fair 

when there is evidence that the Group may not be able to recover 
balances in full. Balances are written off when the receivable  
amount is deemed irrecoverable.


or investments in money market instruments with a maturity date  
of three months or less.
Financial liabilities


the effective interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium  
on settlement.

instruments to hedge against price, interest rate, foreign currency 

 
liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
At the inception of a hedge, the Group formally designates and 
documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to 
apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and 
 
to be effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value and  
are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they have  
been effective throughout the reporting periods for which they  

remaining hedge period.
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  Forward foreign currency contracts that are used to hedge the 

 
fair value of a hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. The change in the fair value of the hedged item, 
attributable to the risk being hedged, is also recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement, offsetting the fair value changes 
arising on the designated hedge instrument.
Fair value estimation
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or  
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
 instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded 
 








commonly used by market participants, including the use of 
comparable recent arm’s length transactions, discounted cash  

Provisions
Provisions which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, are 



the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.  
In the event that the time value of money is material, provisions  
 
 
 
the liability. When discounting, the increase in the provision due  



Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received or 


capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including 

Own shares held


the Consolidated Income Statement on the purchase, issue, sale or 

Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in 
the accounting period in which the dividends are paid and, in the case of 

at th
 For consolidat

an obligation on the fund to repurchase units at the investor’s 




and other payables.

estimates and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
 
estimations and assumptions 
 sition of Geneva Capital Management LLC (Geneva)  
 the future performance of the business when accounting for the 

consideration payable in the future. The key estimates applied in 
valuing the investment management contracts were market growth 
and attrition rates which have been based around industry data  

 
years on an annual basis if revenue retention and growth targets are 
achieved. Management has estimated the revenue of the business  

recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
In arriving at the recognised liability, management has applied 



information and other assumptions supported by management’s industry 
knowledge. See
Impairment of intangible assets
Goodwill and investment management contracts are reviewed for 
 
the carrying value may be impaired.

valuations includes the selection of market growth rates, fund  
 
on these assumptions are given in note 14.
 e schemes at fair 

based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
 
Financial statements estimates and assumptions continued
Consolidation of seed capital investments
From time to time, the Group invests seed capital on the launch  
of products, such as OEICs, SICAVs, hedge funds, property and 
 
capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of  
the investment. The Group reviews the size and nature of these 

 
or classifying them as held for sale. 
Where the Group does not control the fund it holds seed capital 



appropriate for the Group’s interest to be shown as either an 


Interests in other entities
The Group has assessed whether the funds it manages are structured 
entities. The Group has considered the voting rights and other similar 
rights afforded to other parties in these funds including the rights to 
 holdings in the funds and has concluded as to whether these rights 
are the dominant factor in deciding who controls the funds.
The Group has judged that its pooled investment funds are 

 ided in note 15.
 nancial assets are reviewed for impairment at 





judgement in determining whether a decrease in the value of an 
asset meets the prol

pension schemes are determined using actuarial valuations. The 
actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, 



Further details are given in note 21.
Provisions
By their nature, provisions often
judgement or estimates by management. The nature and amount of 
the provisions included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position are detailed in note 22 and contingencies not provided for 
are disclosed in note 31. 






 An assessment was made as at 31 December 201 4 that certain seed 


Position. As at 31 December 2013, the Property business and certain 


Position. The Property business was disposed of on 1 April 2014.
2.3 Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted in this Annual Report are consistent 

caused by the adoption of the following standards on 1 January 
2014. The Group has also adopted any IFRS or IFRS IC 

year beginning on 1 January 2014.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements has resulted in certain 
seed capital investments to be consolidated as structured entities, as 

of IFRS 10 has been applied retrospectively and the impact of the 
restatement is set out in note 33. 
IFRS 1 1 Joint Arrangements has not resulted in any changes to  

reported periods.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities is a disclosure only 
standard and is set out in note 15.
2.4 Future changes in accounting policies
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2015. The following new standards are not applicable to 

they become effective. The Group plans to apply these standards in 
the reporting period in which they become effective. 

 
or thereafter.



become effective in 2017 . 
Both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are subject to endorsement from the 
European Union.
The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards on the 
 ments.
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  3. Income
Group
 
2014  
£m
201 3  

Gross fee and deferred income 
Gross fee income 648.9 575.0
Amortisation of deferred income 2.3 3.2
651.2 578.2
Commissions and deferred acquisition costs
Commissions and fees payable (130.5) (1 14.3)
 (1.9) (2.6)
(132.4) (1 16.9)
Net fee income 518.8 461.3
 15.2 (2.1) 1.8
Finance income
 0.8 0.5
Gain on disposal – ICICL 7 11.5 –
Seed capital investment gains 3.6 2.8
Other net investment income 1.2 0.5
 21.2 4.5 6.4
 21.6 10.2
Net income from continuing operations 538.3 473.3


Group 

2014  
£m
2013
(restated)  

 5.2 233.4 214.5
Investment administration 30.2 24.4
Information technology 17 .6 17 .1
Operating leases 6.9 8.4
 8.1 5.2
 (3.5) (3.1)
 38.5 32.0
Operating expenses from continuing operations 331.2 298.5

further detail on the restatement.
 111
Financial statements 4.2 Auditors’ remuneration
Group and Company
This note discloses the total remuneration payable to the Group’s auditors. PwC replaced Ernst & Y oung as the Group’s auditor on 1 May 201 4 
following shareholder approval at the Group’s 2014 AGM. 
2014  
£m
 0.1

 – statutory audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.5
 – audit related assurance services 0.2
 – other assurance services 0.2
 – 0.1
Total fees 1.1
 


Audit related assurance services include the half year review of the Group’s interim results and the auditors’ engagement covering client 




201 3  

 0.3

 – statutory audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.7
 – other services pursuant to legislation 0.2
Total fees 1.2

 




Average
1
As at 31 December
1
 
2014  
no.
201 3  
no.
2014  
no.
201 3  
no.
Number of employees relating to continuing operations 875 81 2 922 831
Number of employees relating to total operations 928 1,009 922 1,029
 The number of employees relating to total operations in 2013 includes a full year of property staff in comparison to three months in 2014 as 
staff transferred with the Property business on 1 April 2014. The increase in the number of employees during the year includes 25 staff that 

Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
112  Group Company
 
2014  
£m
2013 
(restated)  

2014  
£m
201 3  

Salaries, wages and bonuses 175.3 152.6 0.3 –
 1 1.2 27 .4 27 .9 – –
Social security costs 24.1 27 .6 – –
Pension service cost 6.6 6.4 – –
 
from continuing operations 233.4 214.5 0.3 –

Group

2014  
£m
201 3  

 11.3 1 1.3
Bank facility and arrangement fees – (0.2)
 22 1.2 1.3
 0.3 –
Other 0.3 –
 13.1 12.4

2014 2013

Acquisition 
related items 
£m
Non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m

related items  


items  

T otal  

Loss from associates and joint ventures
Associate intangible amortisation 1.8 – 1.8 –––
TH Real Estate establishment costs – 5.4 5.4 –––
1.8 5.4 7.2 –––
Finance income
ICICL disposal – (11.5) (11.5) –––
– (11.5) (11.5) –––
Operating expenses and amortisation
Intangible amortisation 14 53.7 – 53.7 5 1.8 – 5 1.8
FSCS refund – (2.9) (2.9) –––
Geneva deal and integration costs – 4.2 4.2 –––
Gartmore related employee share award ––– 5.1 – 5.1
53.7 1.3 55.0 56.9 – 56.9
Finance expenses
 22 1.2 – 1.2 1.3 – 1.3

charge 0.3 – 0.3 –––
1.5 – 1.5 1.3 – 1.3

continuing operations 57.0 (4.8) 52.2 58.2 – 58.2
 (11.2) (0.7) (11.9) (17 .8) – (1 7 .8)

continuing operations 45.8 (5.5) 40.3 40.4 – 40.4

 113
Financial statements 2014
TH Real Estate establishment costs
 
31 December 2014. 
Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited (ICICL) disposal

FSCS refund


recognised in 2010 and 2012.
Geneva deal and integration costs

2013


 Group Company
2014  
£m
201 3  

2014  
£m
201 3  


 – charge for the year 42.1 19.5 – –
 – prior year adjustments (5.4) (6.3) – –

 – credit for the year (13.4) (16.4) – –
 – prior year adjustments 1.6 5.5 – –
Total tax charged to the income statement 24.9 2.3 – –
 Group Company
2014  
£m
201 3  

2014  
£m
201 3  

 (0.1) (0.1) – –
 (0.1) (0.1) – –
Total tax credited to the statement of comprehensive income (0.2) (0.2) – –

Group
2014  
£m
201 3  

 283.4 127 .4
 60.9 29.6
Factors affecting the tax charge:
 (20.0) (7 .1)
 (11.2) (9.8)
Prior period adjustments (3.8) (0.8)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary difference (2.2) (6.1)
 0.9 (3.4)
Other items 0.3 (0.1)
Total tax charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 24.9 2.3
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
114  Company
2014  
£m
201 3  

 95.4 80.1
 20.5 18.6
Factors affecting the tax charge:
 (21.0) (19.0)
Group relief surrender 0.5 0.4
Total tax charged to the Company Income Statement – –

9.1 Discontinued operation
On 1 April 2014, the Group completed transactions which resulted in the disposal of the Property business and simultaneously  
recognised a 40% share in the newly formed joint venture – TH Real Estate. Prior to the disposal, the Group continued to consolidate  
 

2014  
£m
201 3  

 19.3 62.4
Income from associates and joint ventures 0.1 1.6
Finance income 0.2 –
 19.6 64.0
 (12.0) (39.3)
Depreciation – (0.1)
 7.6 24.6
 (1.3) (2.9)
 6.3 21.7
 – (0.2)
 148.9 –
 (8.7) (4.3)
 (14.9) 0.7
 131.6 17 .9
 2014  
£m
Cash consideration 114.2 
40% contribution of TH Real Estate joint venture 74.8 
Amounts receivable in respect of net assets sold at net book value 9.1 
Total consideration 198.1 

 – goodwill and intangible assets allocated to Property business (33.3)
 – other net tangible assets (15.9)
Net assets disposed (49.2)
 148.9 
Deal and separation costs (8.7)
 140.2
 (14.9)
 125.3
 115
Financial statements 2014 2013
Seed  
capital 
investments  
£m
Property 
business  
£m
Total  
£m
Seed  
capital 
investments 

Property 
business  

T otal  

Intangible assets ––– – 38.7 38.7
 ––– – 4.3 4.3
 71.7 – 71.7 –––
 ––– – 0.2 0.2
 4.8 – 4.8 38.0 0.2 38.2
T rade and other receivables ––– – 9.0 9.0
Prepayments ––– – 0.1 0.1
 8.3 – 8.3 – 15.3 15.3
 84.8 – 84.8 38.0 67 .8 105.8
Trade and other payables 26.0 – 26.0 – 5.0 5.0
 ––– – 0.6 0.6
 26.0 – 26.0 – 5.6 5.6
10.  Earnings per share
Group

 
2014  
no. (millions)
201 3  
no. (millions)
Issued share capital 1,130.9 1,1 1 7 .7
 (45.7) (58.9)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 1,085.2 1,058.8
 54.6 78.2
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 1,139.8 1,137 .0
 
between the weighted average number of shares used in the basic earnings per share and the diluted earnings per share calculations  
 
as at 31 December 201 4.

Earnings
 
2014  
£m
201 3  

 126.9 107 .2

 40.3 40.4
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 167 .2 147 .6
Earnings per share
2014  
pence
201 3  
pence
Basic 15.4 13.9
Diluted 14.7 13.0
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
116  Earnings
 
2014  
£m
201 3  

 258.5 125.1

 (85.0) 44.2
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 173.5 169.3
Earnings per share
2014  
pence
201 3  
pence
Basic 16.0 16.0
Diluted 15.2 14.9

Earnings
 
2014  
£m
201 3  

Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 126.9 107 .2
Earnings per share
2014  
pence
201 3  
pence
Basic 11.7 10.1
Diluted 11.1 9.4

Earnings
 
2014 
£m
201 3  

Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 258.5 125.1
Earnings per share
2014  
pence
201 3  
pence
Basic 23.8 1 1.8
Diluted 22.7 1 1.0

Earnings
 
2014  
£m
201 3  

Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 131.6 17 .9
Earnings per share
2014  
pence
201 3  
pence
Basic 12.1 1.7
Diluted 11.5 1.6
 11 7
Financial statements Group

 


into the Company’s shares, or into Group managed funds. The DEP trustee purchases Company shares and units or shares in Group 

elected to participate in the 201 1 ESOP, have their restricted shares, upon vesting, automatically transfer into the 201 1 ESOP as purchased 
shares. They will attract matching shares subject to the performance and employment conditions of that plan. 

for every three restricted shares held in trust on the third anniversary of the award. One third of the restricted shares will become unrestricted 

shares will be forfeited. Forfeiture conditions apply in the case of leavers.


operations is to be recognised in future periods.
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)

through the purchase of Company shares. The 201 1 ESOP awards up to three matching shares for every share purchased depending  
 
if the conditions have been met on each anniversary. At the end of 2014, the TSR performance condition allows for 0.5 matching shares  

 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
 
are made typically for staff recruitment and retention purposes and larger awards generally have performance hurdles. The Remuneration 
 
social security obligations.
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
   

vesting periods (respectively) for L TIP 2014.
Criteria Amount vesting
Henderson Group TSR less than the 50th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies nil%
Henderson Group TSR at the 50th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies 25%
Henderson Group TSR at or above the 75th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies 100%
If the Henderson Group TSR is between the 50th and 75th percentiles, the amount vesting will increase on a linear basis. The Remuneration 

L TIP, the performance hurdle was 95% relative to Henderson Group TSR and 5% on risk and sustainability metrics.
 

one and two year(s) after vesting. However, employees are not entitled to vote or receive dividends in respect of these awards until the  

The 201 1 L TIP met its vesting conditions on 31 December 2013 and 78% of awards vested in April 2014. The 2012 L TIP met its vesting 
conditions on 31 December 2014 and 43% of awards will vest in April 2015.

continuing operations
2014  
£m
201 3  

DEP 12.5 10.4
RSP 5.4 3.5
LTIP 3.8 4.1
ESOP 2.7 3.4
CSOP 0.9 0.5
 0.9 0.4
BAYE 0.8 1.3
SAYE 0.4 0.4
Gartmore related employee share award – 3.9
Share-based payments expense 27 .4 27 .9

2014  
£m
201 3  

 27 .4 27 .9
 1.4 1.7
 6.5 5.4
Amounts settled through equity 35.3 35.0
 
 119
Financial statements  
using the share price at grant date, which is set out in the following table. L TIP fair values have been discounted on the basis that the option 


2014 2013
Shares/
options  
granted  
no.
Average grant  
share price  
£
Shares/
options  
granted  
no.
Average grant  
share price  
 LTIP 5,842,500 2.40 8,1 15,000 1.37
DEP 4,334,868 2.60 6,782,461 1.64
RSP 2,496,305 2.42 1,169,905 1.68
The fair value calculation for the L TIP includes a statistical assessment of the likelihood of the Company achieving performance targets as set 
out in the plan.
12. Dividends paid and proposed
Company
 
2014  
£m
2014  
pence  
per share
201 3  

201 3  
pence  
per share
Dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid in the year
Final dividend in respect of 2H13 (2H12) 64.0 5.85 55.1 5.05
Interim dividend in respect of 1H14 (1H13) 28.9 2.60 23.5 2.15
Total dividends paid and charged to equity 92.9 8.45 78.6 7 .20
 
2014  
£m
2014  
pence  
per share
201 3  

201 3  
pence  
per share
Dividends proposed on ordinary shares for approval  
by the shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for 2H14 (2H13) 72.9 6.40 65.7 5.85

 
 
 



Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  13. Segmental information
Group



across product lines, distribution channels and geographic regions. All investment product types are sold in most, if not all, of these regions 
and are managed in various locations.

decisions are determined centrally by the Board and, on this basis, the Group is a single segment investment management business. 

2014  
£m
201 3  

Revenues by product on continuing operations
UK OEICs/unit trusts 254.9 247 .7
SICAVs 178.7 138.4
Offshore absolute return funds 63.3 61.9
US mutuals 57 .1 37 .0
Institutional segregated mandates and cash funds 51.8 46.9
Other 45.4 46.3
Gross fee and deferred income 651.2 578.2
Geographic information
2014  
£m
201 3  

Revenues from clients on continuing operations
UK 447.2 443.4
 132.3 83.1
Americas 66.5 44.1
Singapore 1.9 2.2
Australia 1.1 0.6
Japan 0.8 1.6
Other 1.4 3.2
Gross fee and deferred income 651.2 578.2
The geographical revenue information is split according to the country in which the revenue is generated, not necessarily where the client is based. 
The Group does not have a single client which accounts for more than 10% of revenues.
2014  
£m
201 3  

Non-current assets
UK 670.4 653.2
Americas 88.3 3.8
Other 8.7 3.4
767 .4 660.4

 121
Financial statements 14. Intangible assets
Group

2014
Goodwill  

Investment 
management 
contracts  

Computer 
software  

T otal  

Cost
At 1 January 482.8 310.7 10.8 804.3
Additions 34.2 48.9 4.1 87 .2
 5.4 – – 5.4
 1.3 1.9 – 3.2
At 31 December 523.7 361.5 14.9 900.1
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January – (164.8) (1.6) (166.4)
Charge – (53.7) (2.1) (55.8)
At 31 December – (218.5) (3.7) (222.2)
Carrying value at 31 December 523.7 143.0 11.2 677.9
2013
Goodwill  

Investment 
management 
contracts  

Computer 
software 

T otal  

Cost
At 1 January 5 15.6 310.9 5.5 832.0
Additions 5.5 0.5 5.3 1 1.3
 (38.3) (0.7) – (39.0)
At 31 December 482.8 310.7 10.8 804.3
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January – (1 13.1) (1.2) (1 14.3)
Charge from continuing operations – (5 1.8) (0.4) (52.2)
Charge from discontinued operation – (0.2) – (0.2)
 – 0.3 – 0.3
At 31 December – (164.8) (1.6) (166.4)
Carrying value at 31 December 482.8 145.9 9.2 637 .9
The Group considers itself to have one cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated. 








recoverable value of goodwill. Sensitivities were performed by adjusting key assumptions for reasonable possible changes, with the model 

Recent market transactions and the Group’s current market capitalisation provide additional evidence that the recoverable value of goodwill  

Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
122  15. Interest in other entities
The Group operates as a global investment manager and reports its results to the Board on an aggregated basis. The Group manages its 
operations via investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and interests in structured entities. 



investment management agreements, for which it earns management fees and, in certain funds, performance fees. Segregated mandates  
and investment trusts do not give the Group any rights over the client or trust who have the right to remove the Group as manager, a right 
similar to a voting right. As such, segregated mandates and investment trusts are not structured entities. Management has determined that 


the potential for changes in the AUM of structured entities, management has determined that the Group’s structured entities should be 

investment funds, disclosures have been made on this basis. Refer to note 15.3.
15.1 Principal subsidiaries
Company
Investment in subsidiaries
2014  
£m
201 3  

At 31 December 1,030.8 1,002.0

 
Country of incorporation and  
principal place of operation Functional currency
Henderson Group Holdings Asset Management Limited UK GBP
Group

Country of incorporation and  
principal place of operation Functional currency
Geneva Capital Management LLC USA USD
Henderson Administration Limited UK GBP
Henderson Alternative Investment Advisor Limited UK GBP
 UK GBP
Henderson Fund Management Limited UK GBP
Henderson Global Investors (Australia) Limited Australia AUD
 USA USD
Henderson Global Investors (Holdings) Limited UK GBP
Henderson Global Investors (Japan) Limited Japan JPY
Henderson Global Investors Limited UK GBP
 USA USD
Henderson Global Investors (Singapore) Limited Singapore SGD
Henderson Investment Funds Limited UK GBP
Henderson Investment Management Limited UK GBP
Henderson Management SA USD
Henderson UK Finance plc UK GBP
HGI Group Limited UK GBP
HGI (Investments) Limited UK GBP
 123
Financial statements 15.1 Principal subsidiaries continued



intermediate or ultimate holding company within the Group. There are a number of other subsidiaries which do not materially affect the 


Group 
The Group holds interests in the following associates and joint ventures managed through shareholder agreements with third party investors, 

its only material holding.
 
Country of incorporation  
and principal place of operation
Functional 
currency
Percentage 
owned  
2014
Percentage 
owned  
2013
Asia Real Estate Fund Management BVI British Virgin Islands and Singapore USD – 50%
Asia Real Estate Fund Management Limited Singapore SGD – 50%
Attunga Capital Pty Limited Australia AUD – 30%
HGI Immobilien GmbH Germany EUR – 50%
Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited UK GBP – 50%
 USA USD 50% 50%
 USA USD 50% 50%
Optimum Investment Management Limited UK GBP 50% 50%
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited UK GBP 40% –

für Immobilien mbH Germany EUR – 50%
90 West Asset Management Limited Australia AUD 41% 32%

2014  
£m
201 3  

TH Real Estate underlying income 2.7 –
 (7.2) –
T otal TH Real Estate share of loss (4.5) –
Income from other associates and joint ventures 2.4 1.8
T otal share of (loss)/income (2.1) 1.8

As at 31 
December 
2014  
£m
As at 31 
December  
201 3  

 173.7 –
Current assets 50.9 –
Current liabilities (51.2) –
 (3.4) –
 170.0 –
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
124   For the 9 months ended 31 December 2014
Underlying  
 
£m
Acquisition  
related and 
non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Revenue 49.4 – 49.4
 (39.4) (2.8) (42.2)
Amortisation and depreciation (1.2) (5.6) (6.8)
 8.8 (8.4) 0.4
 (2.1) 1.6 (0.5)
 6.7 (6.8) (0.1)
 



15.3 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities

£bn T otal AUM

segregated 
mandates and 
investment 
trusts

consolidated 
pooled 
investment 
funds
Pooled  
investment  
funds AUM
 81.2 (26.6) (0.1) 54.5


£m
T rade  
debtors
Accrued  
income
Seed capital 
investments T otal
 7.6 127.5 3.5 138.6

Group
2014  
£m
201 3  

Cost
At 1 January 32.1 36.8
Additions 1.6 2.8
Disposals (8.8) (7 .2)
 – (0.3)
 0.1 –
At 31 December 25.0 32.1
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January (15.1) (18.8)
Charge (2.6) (3.0)
Disposals 7.8 6.6
 – 0.1
At 31 December (9.9) (15.1)
Net book value at 31 December 15.1 17 .0
 125
Financial statements Group


Carrying value Fair value

2014  
£m
2013 
(restated) 

2014  
£m
201 3  
(restated)  

 35.9 19.6 35.9 19.6
 
as held for sale 9.2 71.7 – 71.7 –
 107 .6 19.6 107 .6 19.6
 71.0 62.1 71.0 62.1
 9.2 4.8 38.2 4.8 38.2
 75.8 100.3 75.8 100.3
Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust debtors and trade  
and other debtors 267.6 244.6 267.6 244.6
Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust debtors and trade  
 9.2 – 9.0 – 9.0
 19.1 234.5 21 7 .0 234.5 21 7 .0
 9.2 8.3 15.3 8.3 15.3
Total loans and receivables 510.4 485.9 510.4 485.9
 693.8 605.8 693.8 605.8
Debt instrument in issue 20 149.4 148.9 157 .4 159.5
 327.0 359.1 327.0 359.1
 
 – 4.3 – 4.3
Total loans and payables carried at amortised cost 476.4 5 12.3 484.4 522.9
 31.1 23.3 31.1 23.3

 9.2 26.0 – 26.0 –
Provisions 12.8 17 .6 12.8 17 .6
 69.9 40.9 69.9 40.9
 546.3 553.2 554.3 563.8

 
the assets held against deferred compensation liabilities is offset by a corresponding movement in the deferred compensation liability.  

investments.
 

translation of certain consolidated structured entities. In addition, the Group entered into a number of contracts for difference (CFDs), credit 


and trade and other payables carried at amortised cost, included in the table above, represent balances mainly settling in a short timeframe, 

any impairment.
Company
 


Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
126  Group 
Fair value hierarchy
The following asset types are carried at fair value after initial recognition.

• 
• 
• 


At 31 December 2014
T otal 

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Financial assets
 107 .6 98.7 8.9 –
 75.8 28.0 – 47 .8
 183.4 126.7 8.9 47.8
At 31 December 2013
T otal 
(restated) 

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Financial assets
 19.6 15.0 4.6 –
 100.3 38.9 – 61.4
 119.9 53.9 4.6 61.4


interests in structured entities the fair value movements are primarily driven by fair value changes in investments held in these funds. Details of 
the inputs used to calculate the fair value of contingent deferred consideration and provisions can be found in notes 32.1 and 22 respectively. 
Sensitivity analysis around likely possible changes to the inputs into the valuations of these liabilities has been performed and resulted in no 



 
2014  
£m
2013 
(restated)  

Fair value at 1 January 61.4 62.5
Additions 1.9 0.7
Disposals (22.8) (2.2)
Transferred from Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income to Consolidated Income Statement (0.6) –
Fair value movements recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 7.9 0.4
Fair value at 31 December 47 .8 61.4


 

unobservable inputs include capitalisation rate and monthly market rent, taking into account factors such as the capitalisation of rental income 




date have been considered with respect to the 30 September 2014 valuations and no adjustments were considered necessary.
 127
Financial statements 18. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2014  
£m
201 3  
(restated)  

2014  
£m
201 3  

Accrued income 147 .1 1 18.3 – –
Other debtors 23.4 17 .5 0.3 –
OEIC and unit trust debtors 87 .1 98.0 – –
Trade debtors 10.0 10.8 – –
Prepayments 7.6 6.8 – –
 2.0 2.4 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 2.3 –
277 .2 253.8 2.6 –
 1.3 37 .0 – –
Current 275.9 216.8 2.6 –
277 .2 253.8 2.6 –


Group Company
2014  
£m
2013 
(restated)  

2014  
£m
201 3  

Cash at bank and in hand 197 .6 187 .0 7.3 8.8
 36.9 30.0 – –
Cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents 234.5 21 7 .0 7.3 8.8

market instruments with a maturity date of three months or less.




Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  2014  
£m
201 3  


 283.4 127 .4

 – 11.6 1 1.1
 – 28.8 29.6
 – intangible amortisation 57 .6 52.4
 – share of loss/(income) from associates and joint ventures 0.3 (3.4)
 – 16 2.6 3.0
 – gain on disposal of seed capital investments (3.7) (1.8)
 – 0.8 0.6
 – (5.5) (6.7)
 – return of pension surplus – 6.8
 – net movements on other provisions 0.1 (2.9)
 – 7 1.5 1.3
 – seed capital investment impairment 0.6 –
 – gain on disposal of associate 7 (11.5) –
 – 9.1 (148.9) –

liabilities 217.7 21 7 .4
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 19.3 (74.7) (32.2)
 (20.0) (10.3)
 123.0 1 7 4.9

19.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Group Company
2014  
£m
201 3  

2014  
£m
201 3  

Change in OEIC and unit trust debtors and creditors (9.7) (8.5) – –
Increase in other assets (31.5) (39.5) (18.5) (5.5)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions and other liabilities (33.5) 15.8 40.2 12.6
Changes in operating assets and liabilities (74.7) (32.2) 21.7 7.1
 129
Financial statements 20. Debt instrument in issue
Group
2014  
Carrying value 
£m
2014  
Fair value  
£m
201 3  
Carrying value 

201 3  
Fair value  

 149.4 157.4 148.9 159.5
 




 
 

Henderson Global Investors Limited. The HGPS is funded by contributions to a separately administered fund. The actuarial advisers  
to the HGPS are T owers Watson. 


HGPS assets.
 
the scheme.
The triennial valuation of the HGPS as at 31 December 201 1, carried out by the Trustee’s independent actuarial advisers, revealed a surplus 
 


 
to the accounting date by an independent actuary in accordance with IAS 19. The HGPS assets are stated at their fair values as at  
31 December 2014. 




Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  2014  
£m
201 3  


Henderson Group Pension Scheme 128.1 104.4

Henderson Group unapproved pension scheme (8.5) (7 .9)
 119.6 96.5
Pension service cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
2014  
£m
 2013  


 – 0.3
Administration costs 0.8 1.0
Current service cost 1.1 1.8
 (4.5) (6.4)
(2.6) (3.3)
Contributions to money purchase members’ accounts 5.1 5.3
Net charge to the Consolidated Income Statement 2.5 2.0
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
2014  
£m
201 3  

Actuarial gains/(losses) 29.4 (36.9)
 (11.8) 10.5
 17 .6 (26.4)
 2014  
£m
201 3  

At 1 January 414.9 499.7
Current service cost 1.1 1.8
Interest cost 18.4 21.0

 – (3.8) (3.3)
 – demographic assumptions – 8.5
 – 62.7 14.9
 (13.9) (16.7)
 – (1 1 1.0)
At 31 December 479.4 414.9
 131
Financial statements 2014  
£m
201 3  

At 1 January 513.6 639.1
Interest credit 22.9 27 .4
Administration costs (0.8) (1.0)
 – (0.3)
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from scheme assets 88.3 (16.8)
Contributions 2.8 3.3
 (13.8) (16.6)
 – (1 1 1.0)
 – (10.5)
At 31 December 613.0 5 13.6
 2014  
£m
201 3  

 (479.4) (414.9)
 613.0 5 13.6
 (14.0) (2.2)
At 31 December 119.6 96.5
Pension scheme assets

2014  
£m
201 3  

Growth portfolio
 – infrastructure 5.5 6.3
 – 125.7 126.8
Bond assets 452.0 353.4
Buy and maintain credit fund 28.4 25.1
 1.4 2.0
At 31 December 613.0 5 13.6
The assets of the HGPS are allocated to a growth portfolio and bond assets. The majority of the growth portfolio is invested in pooled 
 
is invested in infrastructure investments. The bond portfolio is managed on a segregated basis, with the primary objective of meeting the  

The current strategic allocation is broadly 25% growth assets and 75% bond assets. For strategic purposes, the buy and maintain credit fund 
is split evenly between a growth portfolio and bond assets. The Trustee intends to increase the allocation to bond assets as the funding level 


Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
132  21.3 Actuarial assumptions
Financial assumptions

2014  
% per annum
201 3  
% per annum
Discount rate 3.6 4.5
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.5 2.5
 3.1 3.5
 2.1 2.5
 years years
Male currently aged 60 28.3 28.2
Female currently aged 60 29.3 29.7
Male aged 60 in 15 years 29.7 29.6
Female aged 60 in 15 years 31.3 31.2

• 
• 
• 
There would also be an impact on the current service cost, but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be immaterial.
The above sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual change as in practice the changes in assumptions may not occur  

22. Provisions 
Group 
Void  
properties  

Other  

T otal  

 14.2 3.4 1 7 .6
Additions – 0.3 0.3
Finance charge 1.2 – 1.2
Utilised (3.8) (2.3) (6.1)
Released – (0.2) (0.2)
 11.6 1.2 12.8
 8.6 1.1 9.7
Current 3.0 0.1 3.1
 11.6 1.2 12.8




Other
Other provisions relate to issues which have arisen as a result of litigation and obligations during the course of the Group’s business activities. 

 133
Financial statements Group

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances  

Retirement 
 

Intangible  
assets  

Compensation 
plans  

Other temporary 
differences  

T otal  

 2.4 (21.2) (45.5) 19.3 16.2 (28.8)
 – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
(Charge)/credit to the Consolidated Income 
Statement (0.5) 2.8 16.3 (0.5) (7 .2) 10.9
Credit to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – 0.1 – – 0.1 0.2
Credit to the Consolidated Statement of Changes  
 – – –7.9 –7.9
 (0.1) – – – (0.1) (0.2)
 1.8 (18.3) (29.3) 26.7 9.0 (10.1)
 – – – 1.5 (1.5) –
 – – 0.1 – – 0.1
(Charge)/credit to the Consolidated Income 
Statement (0.8) (0.2) 10.6 7 .3 (5.1) 1 1.8
Credit to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – 0.1 – – 0.1 0.2
Charge to the Consolidated Statement of  
 – – – (4.8) – (4.8)
 – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
 1.0 (18.4) (18.6) 30.7 2.4 (2.9)

Assets  

Liabilities  

T otal  

At 31 December 2013 39.3 (49.4) (10.1)
 36.0 (38.9) (2.9)

 
 



 


branches, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and where the 

Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
134  24. Trade and other payables
Group Company
 
2014  
£m
201 3  
(restated)  

2014  
£m
2013 

OEIC and unit trust creditors 87 .2 107 .8 – –
Other creditors 42.6 46.3 3.0 1.7
Accruals 228.3 228.3 26.3 13.9
Deferred income 2.5 5.4 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 125.9 99.4
360.6 387 .8 155.2 1 15.0
 44.6 50.1 7.8 6.4
Current 316.0 337 .7 147 .4 108.6
360.6 387 .8 155.2 1 15.0
25. Share capital
Group and Company
25.1 Authorised share capital
2014  
£m
201 3  

2,194,910,776 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each 274.4 27 4.4
25.2 Allotted share capital

Shares in issue no.
 1,1 14,485,160 139.3
Issue of shares for share schemes 8,937 ,126 1.1
 1,123,422,286 140.4
Issue of shares for share schemes 15,7 44,909 2.0
 1,139,167,195 142.4
All ordinary shares in issue carry the same rights to receive dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company. 

structure on an ongoing basis. Changes to the Group’s capital structure can be affected by adjusting the dividend policy, returning capital  
to shareholders or issuing new shares and other forms of capital.
 135
Financial statements 26. Reserves
Group and Company

 
for the Group and Company respectively.
Share premium
Share premium records the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the full value of the consideration received or the 
market price on the day of issue. 
Own shares held


 
2014  
no. of shares
201 3  
no. of shares
Henderson Employee Trust 2000 316,941 768,5 14
HHG plc Employee Trust 2004 60,000 215,000
Henderson Employee Trust 2009 28,656,728 29,65 1,640
Henderson Group plc Employee Trust 2009 15,603,766 14,000,712
ACS HR Solutions UK Limited 931,116 1,592,876
Henderson Employee Share Ownership Trust 2,933,747 1,267 ,944
 48,502,298 47 ,496,686

Shares are distributed to employees as and when they vest, in line with the terms of each scheme, under the administration of the trustees. 

Translation reserve

subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not GBP which are not part of a designated hedge relationship, and differences between the 
results of these subsidiaries translated at average rates for the reporting year and period end rates. 
 
of a designated hedge relationship. Upon disposal or impairment of these assets, amounts previously recognised in the translation reserve  
are recycled out and the cumulative amount of the gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve comprises the amount of any unrealised gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 

Upon disposal or impairment of these assets, amounts previously recognised in the revaluation reserve are recycled out and the cumulative 
amount of the gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 


• results recognised through the Consolidated and Company Income Statement;
• 
• 
• 
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
136  27 .  Financial risk management
Financial risk management objectives and policies



 

The Group has designed a framework to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the Directors have in place risk management 
practices appropriate for a listed company. The management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board and overseen by the Board 
Risk Committee.
27.1 Price risk









Price risk sensitivity analysis on seed capital investments
2014 2013
Consolidated 

Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
 
£m
Consolidated  
Income  
Statement 

Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  

 – 3.6 – 3.9
27 .2 Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest rates, either through a mismatch  

 





 137
Financial statements At 31 December 2014
Within 1 year  
or repayable  
on demand  

Within  
 

After 5 years 

T otal  

Carrying  
value in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Financial 
Position  

Debt instrument in issue (including interest) 10.9 155.4 – 166.3 152.4
 
and accrued debt interest) 309.6 14.4 – 324.0 324.0
 
 29.0 32.8 1.9 63.7 57 .1
Provisions 3.4 8.0 3.4 14.8 12.8
352.9 210.6 5.3 568.8 546.3
At 31 December 2013
Within 1 year  
or repayable  
on demand  

Within  
 

After 5 years 

T otal  
(restated) 

Carrying  
value in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Financial 
Position 
(restated)  

Debt instrument in issue (including interest) 10.9 166.3 – 177 .2 15 1.9
 
and accrued debt interest) 335.0 25.4 – 360.4 360.4
 
 – 23.3 – 23.3 23.3
Provisions 7 .3 7 .8 6.7 21.8 1 7 .6
 353.2222.86.7582.7553.2
27 .4 Foreign currency risk





 
into GBP on receipt. Foreign currency risk management is overseen by the Hedge Committee and hedge effectiveness is reported to the  
Board monthly.
 
 
 
EUR8.9m and AUD5.0m) (refer to note 27 .6).
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis
Seed capital investments are either denominated in GBP or hedged back to GBP using forward foreign currency contracts based on the 
Group’s hedging policy. However, there remain some seed capital investments which are not fully hedged as they fall below the policy level  
for implementing hedging arrangements. In addition, there are unhedged foreign currency cash balances and net trading receipts in 
subsidiaries of the Group.


Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
2014 2013
Consolidated 

Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
 
£m
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement  

Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  

 0.7 0.6 1.6 2.4
 2.1 1.0 0.9 0.2
 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.1
 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4
 3.3 3.8 – 1.3
27.5 Credit risk

The Group has an established credit policy to ensure that it only transacts with counterparties that are able to meet satisfactory rating 
 



any credit concerns are raised and actions taken to mitigate risks.
 
assets are not past due. 
At 31 December 2014
 

 
past due  

 
past due  


past due  

Greater than  
12 months  
past due  

T otal  

Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust  
debtors and trade and other debtors 258.8 2.4 1.4 4.9 0.1 267.6
At 31 December 2013
 

 
past due  

 
past due  


past due  

Greater than  
12 months  
past due  

T otal  

Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust  
debtors and trade and other debtors 247 .0 4.2 0.8 0.6 1.0 253.6

 139
Financial statements 27 .5 Credit risk continued
 

At 31 December 2014
AAA  

AA  

A  

BBB/ 
not rated  

T otal  

 36.9 125.6 80.1 0.2 242.8
At 31 December 2013
AAA  

AA  

A  

BBB/
not rated  

T otal 
(restated)  

 40.9 104.2 86.8 0.4 232.3
27.6 Hedging activities
At 31 December 2014, the Group held a number of derivative instruments, including CFDs, CDXs, futures and TRSs to hedge the price risk 
arising from the Group’s direct investment in seed capital. These have been assessed as effective fair value hedges. The net realised and 


investments in designated hedging relationships during the year. 
 
held forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the foreign currency risk arising from certain seed capital investments denominated  
in US and Australian dollars and euros. Refer to note 27 .4 for the year end notional value.
28. Leases
Group
Operating leases
The Group is party to four material property leases. A 20.5 year operating lease was entered into during 2008 on 201 Bishopsgate,  
 

 
 
for a period of two, eight and 1 1 years respectively. A void properties provision has been recognised for these leases at the net present  


2014  
£m
201 3  

Within one year 15.1 15.0
 52.9 55.2
 84.0 96.6
Total 152.0 166.8


Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
  29.  Capital commitments
Group and Company
 

30.  Related party transactions
Company
Details of transactions between the Company and its controlled entities, which are related parties, together with amounts due from and  

2014  
£m
201 3  

Transactions with related parties during the year
Capital contributions to indirect subsidiary companies 28.8 29.6
Dividends received 98.4 82.0
Funding from subsidiary companies 24.2 8.0

Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 2.3 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies (125.9) (99.4)
Group
 
21 respectively. Transactions between the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and between controlled subsidiaries, which are related 
parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)

2014  
£m
201 3  

 15.0 12. 7
 0.4 0.4
 5.9 7.8
 21.3 20.9

 

 141
Financial statements 31. Contingent liabilities
Group

• 
result in contingent liabilities; 
•  In the normal course of business, the Group enters into derivative contracts for Group hedging purposes. Such contracts can give rise to 
contingent liabilities;
• Under the Implementation Agreement dated 6 July 2010 relating to the transfer of management responsibilities to Aviva Investors for the 


• 

untrue and any miscalculation of the net asset value of HLAF in the period prior to the effective date of the merger. These warranties and 
 

•  Under the Share Purchase Agreement dated 13 May 201 1 relating to the sale of the entire issued share capital of WorldInvest 
Management Ltd. to Connor, Clark & Lunn UK Limited (CC&L), the Group gave an indemnity against losses suffered by CC&L arising from 

• 
 


• Under the Joint Venture and Shareholder Agreement dated 17 May 2012 with Sesame Bankhall Group Limited (Sesame) relating to 

and OIML certain warranties relating to OIML; and (b) the Group gave to OIML certain indemnities in respect of losses that may be 
suffered by OIML and which arise from acts, omissions or circumstances occurring prior to completion of that agreement. Those warranties 

• 


certain indemnities against (i) certain losses that may be incurred by certain companies prior to completion of the transaction or that may 
arise as a result of completion, (ii) certain undertakings being breached and (iii) stamp duty being incurred in connection with the transfer  
of shares in certain companies to be transferred to the joint venture. These warranties, covenants and indemnities are subject to certain 
 



• Under the Asset Purchase Agreement dated 24 June 2013 relating to the sale and purchase of the Henderson property business in  

representations and warranties relating to itself and the US Property Business; and (b) an indemnity against certain losses that may arise 
from (i) any inaccuracy in any representation or warranty given under the Asset Purchase Agreement, (ii) failure to perform any covenant  


be assumed by TIAA under the Asset Purchase Agreement. These representations, warranties and indemnities are subject to certain 


Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
142  • 
 
10 February 2014; and 
• Global Investors (Holdings) Limited’s 50% shareholding in Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited (ICICL) by its joint venture partner, 
Intrinsic Financial Services Limited, the Group provided certain warranties relating to its shareholding and the conduct of ICICL during the 

conduct during this period; and (b) all losses arising to it relating to the period before it became a joint venture company. The warranties 
 
18 months following completion. 


32.  Movements in controlled entities
Group

On 30 June 2014, the Group announced the purchase of the entire issued share capital of Geneva Capital Management LLC (Geneva) which 





2014  
£m
Cash 76.7
Present value of contingent deferred consideration recognised in other creditors 10.0
Total consideration 86.7

 (3.2)
 (0.4)
Investment management contracts recognised on consolidation 14 (48.9)
 (52.5)
Goodwill recognised 14 34.2


various possible scenarios to arrive at the discounted liability which is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Likely 
changes to these scenarios have been considered and do not result in a material difference to the carrying value of the deferred consideration. 




respectively to the 2014 Consolidated Income Statement. 
 143
Financial statements 32.2 Disposals


• 
• Henderson Administration Services Limited 
• 
• Henderson Beteiligung Verwaltungs GmbH 
• Henderson CLOF II (GP) Limited 
• 
• 
• 
• Henderson European Retail Property Fund Management Sarl 
• Henderson Funds Management Jersey Limited 
• 
• 
• Henderson Global Investors (France) SAS 
• Henderson Global Investors GP LLC 
• Henderson Global Investors GP II LLC 
• Henderson Global Investors GP IV LLC 
• Henderson Global Investors Immobilien Austria GmbH 
• Henderson Global Investors SGR Spa 
• Henderson Indirect Property Fund (Europe) Management Sarl 
• Henderson Joint Ventures Property Funds Management Sarl 
• Henderson Matador LP General Partner Limited 
• Henderson OMP (GP) Limited 
• Henderson Property Holdings LLC
• 
• Henderson Property Management (Jersey) Limited 
• 
• Henderson Property UK AIFM Limited 
• Henderson Real Estate Asset Management Limited 
• Henderson Real Estate Singapore Pte Ltd 
• Henderson Shopping Centre Verwaltungs GmbH 
• Henderson UK OM (LP1) (GP) Limited 
• Henderson UK OM (LP1) Limited 
• Henderson UK OM (LP2) (GP) Limited 
• Henderson UK OM (LP2) Limited 
• Henderson UK OM (LP3) (GP) Limited 
• Henderson UK OM (LP3) Limited.
Financial statements continued

Group and Company continued
144  33.  Restatement
IFRS 10 restatement
As disclosed in note 2, the Group adopted IFRS 10 on 1 January 2014, which has led to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  

consolidated. The impact on the year ended 31 December 2013 is set out below.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at  
31 December 
201 3  
Reported  

Adjustments  

Other 

As at  
31 December 
2013 
Restated  

Impact on line items
 39.0 23.1 – 62.1 
 19.2 – 0.4 19.6
Current trade and other receivables 217 .1 0.1 (0.4) 216.8 
 216.4 0.6 – 217.0 
 (26.8) (23.3) – (50.1)
Impact on net assets
 835.8 0.5 – 836.3 
The same IFRS 10 adjustments were applied for the year ended 31 December 2012.

Share capital 

Share premium  

Own  
shares held  

Translation 
reserve  

Revaluation 
reserve  


reserve  

 
controlling 
interests  

 

As at 1 January  
 139.3 693.8 (100.8) 5.3 7.4 35.6 0.6 781.2
Adjustments – – – 0.4 2.5 (5.9) 3.5 0.5
As at 1 January  
 139.3 693.8 (100.8) 5.7 9.9 29.7 4.1 781.7


 
 

34. Events after the reporting date
Group

 
has, however, given due regard to the event described below which occurred after the reporting date.
 

2014 are backed by cash and John Laing plc shares. The fund is restricted from trading in these shares until 30 September 2015 at which 
point the appropriate amount of shares will be distributed to the Group to satisfy all, or in part, fees still outstanding and owed to the Group.
 145
Financial statements Glossary

 
due 24 March 2016
AGM
Annual General Meeting
AIFMD
EU Alternative Investment Fund  
Managers Directive
ASX

AUM
Assets under management
BAYE
Buy As Y ou Earn Share Plan
Board
The board of directors  

bps
Basis points
BRC
Board Risk Committee
CDIs
CHESS Depositary Interests
CDP
Formerly known as  
Carbon Disclosure Project
CDS
Credit Default Swap
CDXs
Credit Default Indices
CFDs
Contracts For Difference
CFO

CIO

Code Staff

 
and risk takers whose professional  
activities could have a material impact  

Company
Henderson Group plc 
compensation ratio
 
from continuing operations divided by  
net income from continuing operations 
CPI

CRO

CSOP
Company Share Option Plan
DEP

Directors
The directors of Henderson Group plc
EAFE
Europe, Australasia and Far East
EBITDA

and amortisation
EMEA
Europe, Middle East and Africa
EMIR
European Market 
Infrastructure Regulation
EPS
Earnings per share
ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance
ESOP
Employee Share Ownership Plan



 



FCA
The UK Financial Conduct Authority
FRC
Financial Reporting Council
FSCS
Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme
Fund II
Henderson PFI Secondary Fund II L.P.
FX

GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles
Gartmore
Gartmore Group Limited and its  
controlled entities

 
capital of Gartmore Group Limited
Geneva
Geneva Capital Management LLC
GHG emissions
Greenhouse Gas emissions
GPS
Gartmore Pension Scheme
Group
Henderson Group plc and 
its controlled entities
hedge funds
Hedge funds including absolute 
return funds
Henderson
Controlled entities of Henderson Group plc 
carrying out core investment 
management activities 
HGPS
Henderson Group Pension Scheme
HLAF

HMRC
HM Revenue & Customs 
HR
Human Resources
IAS 
International Accounting Standard
ICAAP
 
Assessment Process
ICICL
Intrinsic Cirilium Investment 
Company Limited
146  IFRS IC
International Financial Reporting  
Standards Interpretations Committee
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union
IPO
Initial Public Offering
IRR
Internal Rate of Return
IRS
International Revenue Service
ISG
Investment Strategy Group
KPI
Key performance indicator
LLC
Limited Liability Company
LLP
Limited Liability Partnership
LSE

LTIP

management fee margin
Management fees divided by average  
assets under management
net margin
 
operations divided by average assets  
under management


and its controlled entities
OEIC

OIML
Optimum Investment 
Management Limited
operating margin


continuing operations divided by net  
fee income from continuing operations
OTC
Over The Counter
PwC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RPI

RSP
Restricted Share Plan
SAYE
Sharesave Scheme
SICAV
Société d’investissement à capital  
variable (collective investment scheme)
TCF
Treating Customers Fairly
TH Real Estate
The joint venture vehicle named  
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited  
into which the Group contributed its 
European and Asian property business


property business and to contribute the 
European and Asian property business  
into a newly formed joint venture  
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited
total fee margin
 
operations divided by average assets  
under management
TRSs
T otal return swaps
TSR
T otal Shareholder Return
UCITS
Undertaking for Collective Investment  
in Transferable Securities
UK/United Kingdom
The United Kingdom of Great Britain  

UK Companies Act
Companies Act 2006

 
Responsible Investment
 147
Other information Shareholder information
As at 24 February 2015
T otal number of holders of shares and CDIs and their voting rights
The issued share capital of Henderson Group plc consisted of 1,140,046,526 shares held by 39,839 security holders. This included 


at a meeting of shareholders has one vote on a vote taken by a show of hands, and one vote for each fully paid share held on a vote taken  
 
per person taken by a show of hands, and one vote per CDI on a vote taken on a poll.
Twenty largest share/CDI holders
Shares/CDIs
 % of issued 
capital
1 156,894,25 1 13.76
2 135,343,466 1 1.87
3 101,892,762 8.94
4 98,213,589 8.61
5 89,1 71,586 7 .82
6 67 ,105,144 5.89
7 64,444,480 5.65
8 60,927 ,761 5.34
9 52,534,258 4.61
10 21,560,882 1.89
11 18,390,766 1.61
12 18,337 ,840 1.61
13 1 1,682,673 1.02
14 1 1,531,775 1.01
15 6,075,640 0.53
16 5,495,81 1 0.48
1 7 AMP Life Limited 5,165,209 0.45
18 Bond Street Custodians Limited 4,243,254 0.37
19 4,209,293 0.37
20 4,171,184 0.37
T op 20 total 937 ,392,024 82.22
T otal shares 1,140,046,526 100.00
Distribution of share/CDI holdings
Categories
 
holders
% of issued 
capital
1 – 1,000 29,1 70 1.34
1,001 – 5,000 7 ,689 1.49
5,001 – 10,000 1,460 0.93
10,001 – 100,000 1,241 2.82
100,001 and over 279 93.42
T otal 39,839 100.00
1,101 share/CDI holders held less than A$500 worth of shares/CDIs i.e. fewer than 97 shares/CDIs.


  Substantial shareholders
Details of the Company’s substantial shareholders are set out in the Directors’ report on page 58.
T otal number of options over unissued shares
There were 36,690,825 options over unissued ordinary shares in the Company held by 721 option holders.
Restricted securities
There are no restricted securities in issue.

 

Company Secretary

Principal place of business in the United Kingdom
201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE 


47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD

 

Share registry
Australia
 
 

Jersey
Henderson Group Share Registry, Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES 
 

 Henderson Group Share Registry, Private Bag 921 19, Auckland 1 142 
 

Email
 

Website
www.henderson.com/IR
 149
Other information Summary of movements in AUM

Opening AUM  
1 Jan 2014 Market/FX

disposals
1
Closing AUM 
31 Dec 2014
Closing AUM
 average net
 management
 fee bps
2
Retail
UK OEICs/Unit Trusts/Other 18,706 2,764 1,120 (1,975) 20,615
SICAVs 10,607 3,065 499 – 14,171
US Mutuals 5,009 781 21 5 – 6,005
Investment Trusts 4,931 200 85 – 5,216
Total Retail 39,253 6,810 1,919 (1,975) 46,007 74
Institutional
UK OEICs/Unit Trusts 7,736 787 570 – 9,093
SICAVs 1,341 (65) (10) – 1,266
Offshore Absolute Return Funds 2,466 (13) 43 17 2,513
Managed CDOs 387 (1 17) (19) – 251
Segregated Mandates and Property 23,158 (626) 1,359 (8,361) 15,530
TIAA Henderson Real Estate (40% share) – 414 180 5,056 5,650

3
869 (54) 8 – 823
Other
4
26 21 – 29
Total Institutional 35,983 328 2,132 (3,288) 35,155 32
Group total 75,236 7 ,138 4,05 1 (5,263) 81,162 57
Total asset class

5
42,204 4,891 2,180 1,431 50,706 68

6
19,090 823 1,5 13 (104) 21,322 30
Property
7
13,055 1,482 348 (6,590) 8,295 n/a

3
887 (58) 10 – 839 128
Total Group 75,236 7 ,138 4,05 1 (5,263) 81,162 n/a
Absolute Return analysis
Retail 1,924 1,427 44 – 3,395
Institutional 3,084 236 (1 15) 17 3,222
Total Absolute Return 5,008 1,663 (71) 17 6,617
 the disposal of the Group’s interest in Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited on 1 December 2014.
 4. Other includes US Mutuals together with Australian managed investment schemes.
 7 . Includes AUM of the Henderson UK Property OEIC which remains with the Group following establishment of the TH Real Estate joint venture.


 OEIC – all prior periods include Property and Henderson UK Property OEIC performance.
  FY14 
(audited) 
£m
FY13 
(audited & 
restated)
8
 

FY1 2  
(unaudited & 
restated)
8
 

FY1 1 
(unaudited & 
restated)
8
  

FY10 
(unaudited & 
restated)
8
  

Income
Management fees (net of commissions) 403.5 331.9 301.9 309.8 234.3
Other income 32.5 34.9 39.2 48.3 31.6
Performance fees 82.8 94.5 30.4 63.4 42.3
Net fee income from continuing operations 518.8 461.3 371.5 421.5 308.2
Income/(loss) from associates and joint ventures 5.1 1.8 – (0.9) 0.1
Finance income 10.1 10.2 14.1 1 1.6 5.8
Net income from continuing operations 534.0 473.3 385.6 432.2 314.1
Expenses

8
(88.4) (80.6) (83.3) (82.3) (65.3)
 (143.6) (128.8) (70.6) (96.5) (7 4.4)
 (232.0) (209.4) (153.9) (178.8) (139.7)
Investment administration (30.2) (24.4) (24.8) (27 .2) (22.3)
Information technology (17.1) (17 .1) (14.4) (13.5) (12.3)
 (15.0) (13.7) (13.3) (13.3) (12.7)
Depreciation (4.7) (3.2) (2.8) (2.9) (3.1)

8
(35.6) (28.9) (35.5) (39.0) (37 .5)
Total operating expenses from continuing operations (334.6) (296.7) (244.7) (27 4.7) (227 .6)
 (11.6) (1 1.1) (14.3) (17 .2) (8.7)
Total expenses from continuing operations (346.2) (307 .8) (259.0) (291.9) (236.3)

13
187 .8 165.5 126.6 140.3 77 .8
 7.6 24.6 26.4 19.7 22.5

13
195.4 190.1 153.0 160.0 100.3
 (20.6) (17 .9) (15.3) (30.2) (16.0)
 (1.3) (2.9) (4.2) (3.4) (4.6)

13
173.5 169.3 133.5 126.4 79.7
 (57.0) (58.4) (64.1) (77 .0) (13.7)
 145.0 (4.3) 13.8 (69.2) (10.5)
 11.2 17 .9 18.5 19.4 4.5
 (14.2) 0.6 4.7 16.2 0.6
 – – – 18.9 16.4
Total acquisition related and non-recurring items after tax 85.0 (44.2) (27 .1) (91.7) (2.7)
 258.5 125.1 106.4 34.7 77 .0
Attributable to:
 258.5 125.1 106.2 34.8 77 .5
 – – 0.2 (0.1) (0.5)
Continuing KPIs
Operating margin
9
 (%) 35.5 35.7 34.1 34.8 26.2
Compensation ratio
8, 10
 (%) 44.7 45.4 41.4 42.4 45.3
 875 812 861 838 735
 81.2 63.7 53.9 52.7 5 1.6

continuing basis 69.9 59.0 53.4 56.2 47 .7
Management fee margin (bps) 57 .8 56.3 56.5 55.1 49.1
T otal fee margin (bps) 74.3 78.2 69.6 75.0 64.6

11
 (bps) 26.9 28.1 23.7 25.0 16.3

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic EPS (m) 1,085.2 1,058.8 1,034.0 954.1 788.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS (m) 1,139.8 1,137 .0 1,082.0 1,012.7 849.2

12, 13
 (p) 16.0 16.0 12.9 13.3 10.2

12, 13
 (p) 15.4 13.9 10.8 1 1.6 7 .9
Basic (p) 23.8 1 1.8 10.3 3.6 9.8

12, 13
 (p) 15.2 14.9 12.3 12.5 9.4

12, 13
 (p) 14.7 13.0 10.3 10.9 7 .3
Diluted (p) 22.7 1 1.0 9.8 3.4 9.1
Dividend per share (p) 9.00 8.00 7 .15 7 .00 6.50
Investment performance
14
 66 78 73 59 70
 83 82 69 66 62
 151
Other information For more information, please go to our website:  

Australia
 
Melbourne, Victoria 3001
 
+61 (0) 3 9415 4081

web.queries@computershare.com.au
Jersey
Queensway House 
Hilgrove Street, St Helier 
Jersey JE1 1ES
 

info@computershare.co.je

Private Bag 921 19 
Auckland 1 142
 
 

web.queries@computershare.com.au

47 Esplanade, St Helier 
Jersey JE1 0BD
For shareholder queries, please contact the Henderson Group Share Registry:

 


they relate to events, and depend on circumstances, that will occur in future.
 
 

152  This document is printed on Hello Silk and Printspeed Offset; both 
 responsible, FSC
®
 elemental chlorine free (ECF) and totally chlorine free (TCF) 
processes. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of 
press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% 
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 
 ®
 company.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE
