 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 
 2015 Contents Performance highlights
Strategic report
2  Henderson at a glance
4  Chairman’s statement
7 Chief Executive’s review
12 Business model 
14  Strategy
16  Key performance indicators
18  Financial review
23 Risk management
29 Resources, relationships  
 and responsibilities
30  Core investment  
 management capabilities
38 Client relationships and brand
42 Our people: our greatest asset 
44 Corporate responsibility
Governance
49   Chairman’s introduction
50  Board of Directors and leadership
54 Governance
57  Committee reports
66 Relations with shareholders
67 Directors’ remuneration report
85 Compliance statements and application 
 of principles and recommendations
89 Directors’ report
91  Directors’ responsibilities statement
92 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements 
99   Group and Company financial statements
Other information
148 Glossary
150  Shareholder information
152 Summary of movements in AUM
153 Five year financial summary (unaudited)
Notes:
1. As a percentage of opening AUM  
from continuing operations  
(excludes TH Real Estate).
2. Assets under management from  
continuing operations.
3. Calculation based on continuing underlying 
profit after tax attributable to equity holders 
of the parent.
Investment
outperformance
of funds over three years
81%
100
50
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
0
66
69
81
83
81
Net new money 
growth
1
11%
20
-20
0
6
11 11
-13
-8
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Diluted earnings
per share
3
17.2p
20
10
0
10.9
10.3
13.0
14.7
17.2
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Dividend per share
10.3p
12
6
0
7.00
7.15
8.00
9.00
10.3
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Assets under 
management
2
£92.0bn
100
50
0
52.7
53.9
63.7
81.2
92.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
This report and additional information  
about the Group can be found online  
at henderson.com/IR.
Pages 1 to 47 of this report constitute the 
Strategic report which has been signed on 
behalf of the Board.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
2015 has been another strong year for  
Henderson. We have executed well on our 
strategy to grow and globalise our business. 2015 was all about delivery.
At the start of 2014, Henderson set out a clear five year strategy focused  
on the growth and globalisation of our business, for the benefit of our clients  
and shareholders. 2015 was all about delivery. 
In this year’s Annual Report, we highlight the characteristics we need to exhibit  
to deliver our strategy: 
• Focus and energy, to drive the execution of our ambitious plan 
• Awareness and agility, to keep moving forward and adapt when necessary to changes  
in market conditions and regulatory environments
• Discipline and responsibility, to fulfil our governance obligations 
• Expertise and awareness, to be successful in active investment management 
• Local knowledge and teamwork, to deliver for our clients, worldwide. 
STRENGTH IN 
OUR STRATEGY
1 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report Henderson at a glance
Growth and globalisation
Henderson is an independent asset manager, specialising in active 
management. We serve an increasingly global client base, offering  
our clients access to all major markets around the world.
North America
• Four offices
• 29 investment 
professionals
• 44 distribution experts
• Established Retail 
distribution network
• Institutional presence 
strengthened with 
2014 acquisition of 
Henderson Geneva 
Capital Management
UK
• Two offices
• 187 investment 
professionals
• 156 distribution 
experts
• Strong Retail  
and Institutional  
client base
Europe, Middle 
East and Africa
• Seven offices
• 32 distribution experts
• Strong Retail 
presence
• Opportunities to 
selectively expand our 
Institutional presence
Asia
• Four offices
• 22 investment 
professionals
• 27 distribution experts
• Business continued  
to evolve in 2015
Australia
• Two offices
• 19 investment  
professionals
• 16 distribution experts
• Growth accelerated 
with three acquisitions 
in 2015
2 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Notes: 
All data as at 31 December 2015, unless stated otherwise. 
1. Net flows as a percentage of opening AUM from continuing operations, 
excluding AUM and net flows associated with the 40% share of  
TH Real Estate. 
2. Percentage of funds, on an asset-weighted basis, that are outperforming 
relative to benchmark, percentile ranking or absolute where appropriate  
and includes Henderson UK Property OEIC.  
3. Other includes Retail Unit Trusts, Investment T rusts, Australian Managed 
Investment Schemes and Singapore Mutuals.
Our clients are financial professionals, 
private and institutional investors
 T otal Retail T otal Institutional
We have four key product ranges:  
UK Retail, Retail SICAVs, Retail US 
Mutuals and Institutional
  UK Retail OEICs  
& Other
3
  Retail SICAVs
  Retail US Mutuals 
  Institutional
We have five core investment 
capabilities: European Equities,  
Global Equities, Global Fixed Income, 
Multi-Asset and Alternatives
  European Equities
 Global Equities
  Global Fixed Income
 Multi-Asset
 Alternatives
2015 – strong progress against plan
• Assets under management (AUM) of £92.0bn, up 13%
• 11% net new money growth
1
, reflecting strong net client inflows  
of £8.5bn
• Strong investment performance with 81% of funds  
outperforming over three years
2
• Sale of 40% stake in TH Real Estate; acquisitions of Perennial Fixed 
Interest, Perennial Growth Management and 90 West in Australia
• Diluted underlying earnings per share of 17 .2 pence, up 17%
• Completed £25m share buyback programme
• Share price up 56% in Australia, 45% in the UK.
Assets under management
£92.0bn
(2014: £81.2bn)
Our mission
To be a trusted global asset manager, focused on delivering  
excellent performance and service to our clients.
Our philosophy
Active fund management, with our clients’ needs at the heart  
of everything we do.
Our guiding principles
The success of our strategy begins with the way in which  
our people operate.
Collaboration
We work together and share knowledge so that our clients  
benefit from the combined force of the whole company.
Conviction
We demand passion, belief and energy from our people.  
We have no house style to constrain the expertise of our  
investment professionals. 
Responsibility
We know that performance, service and trust all flow from  
taking personal and collective responsibility, always in the  
service of our clients’ needs.
35.1 56.9
AUM by client 
channel (£bn)
35.1
19.3
8.6
29.0
AUM by 
product (£bn)
24.8
4.9
13.7
28.2
20.4
AUM by core 
capability (£bn)
3 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report In this year’s report, we explore characteristics of our business 
which equip us to sustain excellent performance and service  
for our clients and give strength to our strategy. Focus and 
energy are essential to drive the execution of an ambitious plan. 
But so, for example, are awareness and agility, to respond  
where necessary to changes in client preferences and market 
conditions. Behind all this remains a constant emphasis on  
strong investment performance, for the benefit of our clients.
How do you measure success?
Again this year, Henderson delivered well on our promises  
to our clients and shareholders:
• Consistently strong investment performance, with  
81% of funds outperforming over three years
• Net client inflows of £8.5bn
• AUM increased to £92.0bn
• Increased underlying profit and EPS
• Increased dividends totalling 10.3 pence per share,  
and a £25m share buyback.
What makes you believe that this success  
is sustainable?
Underpinning our excellent near-term performance is a well 
understood and consistent strategy, focused on the twin goals  
of growth and globalisation. 
It is a strategy designed to respond both to opportunity and risk. 
Over the last few years, we have strengthened our position  
in our established markets and harnessed demand for our 
European funds. Once we had become more confident in our 
domestic markets in the UK and Europe, we were ready to make 
more of our international operations – in the US and Australia.  
In so doing, we are diversifying our client base and building more 
balance into our business, in pursuit of the objective of becoming 
a genuinely global asset manager. 
Behind the scenes, we have invested to diversify our investment 
management skill set, to be able to harness future cyclical shifts 
such as the resurgence of emerging markets and the growing 
demand for globally-focused equity and fixed income products. 
There is still more work to do, but we are making good progress. 
Our Chief Executive, Andrew Formica, talks more about this  
in his review. 
Chairman’s statement
In my 2014 review, I focused on the abiding importance of putting our  
clients’ interests at the heart of everything we do. How well embedded  
is this customer-centric view point?
It is of fundamental importance that everyone  
at Henderson respects the fact that we are trusted 
with our clients’ money, on which their future 
wellbeing may depend. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
4 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 What role has the Board played in the 
development and execution of strategy?
Beyond our regular direction-setting and monitoring of client 
interests, the Board agenda this year has included deep dives 
into key elements of our strategy, to validate our approach to 
geographic expansion and to test our thinking around major  
lines of business. 
As we looked at the Pan-Asian region, we took the pragmatic 
decision to play to our strengths and focus on Australia, where 
our heritage and brand presence create a uniquely secure 
foundation for our fledgling business. The Board chose to 
redeploy part of the capital released through our exit from our 
direct involvement in Property into the acquisitions of 90 West, 
Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management,  
to accelerate our business plan for Australia. As we shape  
our broader strategic view on Henderson’s role in Pan-Asian 
markets, we are delighted to welcome Kalpana Desai, who  
joined the Board in October and brings extensive knowledge  
of Pan-Asian markets.
In reviewing progress in our Institutional business, the  
Board endorsed the executive team’s approach of growth  
at a reasonable price. Many members of the Board bring to  
the table an instinctively institutional mind set, based on a  
deep understanding of what it takes to develop an Institutional 
business. Demanding institutional standards will increasingly 
apply right across our industry and there are scale benefits 
available to businesses able to serve both Retail and  
Institutional clients. 
The Board also had a comprehensive look at all our recent 
investments in new investment management teams. I am pleased 
to write that almost all of these new teams are performing well. 
The Board took time this year to look further ahead, at the  
major trends which could shape our industry over the coming 
decade. Personally, I worry about the enormous disruption to  
our prosperity, security and growth prospects which I believe 
would follow a British exit from the European Union, not to 
mention the uncertainty created by years of treaty renegotiation 
and the impact on our own industry. As a Board, we considered 
technological disruption and the arrival of the robo-adviser, as 
well as climate change and cyber risks. In these deliberations,  
I was struck by the productive mix of skills and experience around 
the boardroom table at Henderson. We have all experienced 
technological disruption in other sectors in which we have been 
involved, notably Retail with the advent of internet shopping,  
and are aware of the power of partnership to drive overarching 
change. One of the key ways in which a board can add value  
is by considering a range of perspectives and time horizons,  
and encouraging others to recognise and challenge the 
consensus view. 
All of our good work on strategy and business development 
could be reduced to nought without the soundest possible 
control environment. At Henderson, we are conscious of the 
need for our controls to keep pace with our growing business. 
We have made major investments this year in manpower and 
systems to keep us abreast of best practice and to meet our 
clients’ and regulators’ expectations. This will continue in 2016  
as the fast pace of regulatory change is maintained. The Board 
– particularly through the work of its Audit and Board Risk 
sub-committees – plays an active role in continuously monitoring 
the strength and adequacy of our control environment. The Board 
also takes a keen interest in the Company’s relationships with  
its global regulators, ensuring that we continue to engage in a 
constructive manner and take a proactive role, particularly on 
significant new regulations and where it is in the interests of 
clients to do so. 
Many of the Board’s decisions are essentially about the 
deployment of capital. At Henderson, we take an active approach 
to the management of cash and capital resources. We will look 
first for opportunities to invest organically in the growth of our 
business or to invest in inorganic growth. When capital 
generation outweighs these options, we will return surplus capital 
to shareholders. As a signal of our intent to do precisely this, we 
implemented a £25m share buyback across our two listings in 
the second half of 2015. 
We continue to operate a progressive dividend policy and expect 
to grow our dividend broadly in line with underlying earnings 
growth over the medium term. The Board is recommending a  
final dividend for 2015 of 7 .20 pence per share, bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 10.3 pence per share, a 14.4% increase 
over 2014 in sterling terms. 
What is on the Board agenda for the  
coming year?
This has been another successful year for Henderson, and  
one in which we have continued to make significant progress  
in delivering our strategy. 
We are acutely conscious of the challenges ahead. As I write, 
markets are volatile and client demand is focused on sources  
of income and risk-adjusted returns. Growth is harder to achieve 
in tough markets, and the role of the Board is to strike a healthy 
balance between the delivery of strategy, management of risk  
and consideration of new opportunities. Our commitment is to 
continue to achieve this balance, to the benefit of our clients  
and shareholders.
In concluding, I would like to thank my fellow Board members for 
their support and commitment, and to congratulate the team at 
Henderson on the delivery of another successful year. My thanks 
also to our clients and shareholders for their continuing support. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
We have continued to progress along our journey of growth and globalisation as shown not only by the organic growth of our business as explained elsewhere in this report but also by the acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management. Further information can be found on page 9. These acquisitions will accelerate our strategy to grow and globalise our business.
We have in place a robust governance framework that underpins and enables us to deliver on our strategy and support our business model and I hope you ﬁ nd useful the reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Board Risk Committees. 2015 has been another challenging year for the Board and I thought it might be useful if we set out a more detailed summary of the matters we considered during the year. 
We have signed up to the Investment Association’s Statement of Principles for Investment Managers. These 10 principles represent a culture of excellence for investment managers in helping clients succeed in achieving their ﬁ nancial goals.
On the subject of culture, the Board received the results of a culture audit undertaken by KPMG. There were a lot of positives to be taken from the report but there are some areas in which we could do better and a sub-committee of the ExCo is investigating how to implement ﬁ ndings and recommendations.
Henderson operates in a highly and constantly developing regulatory environment. Therefore, a great deal of time has been spent by the Board and the Audit Committee on regulatory matters as we ensure that our Compliance systems are appropriately embedded in the organisation.
I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Kalpana Desai to the Board. A description of her appointment process is set out in the report from the Nomination Committee.
This Corporate Governance Statement is correct as at 10 February 2016 and has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
10 February 2016
Chairman’s introduction
Contents
49  Chairman’s introduction
50  Board of Directors and leadership
54 Strategy, governance structure and Board business
56  Effectiveness
57  Nomination Committee report
59  Accountability
60  Board Risk Committee report
62  Audit Committee report
66  Relations with shareholders
67 Directors’ remuneration report
85 Compliance statements and application of principles  and recommendations
89 Directors’ report
91 Directors’ responsibilities statement
92 Independent auditors’ report
Dear Shareholder
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
We continue to have in place a robust governance 
framework that underpins and enables us to deliver 
on our strategy and support our business model.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
  Our formal compliance statements with an explanation of how we applied the principles of the UK Governance Code and the recommendations set out in the ASX Principles are set out on pages 85 to 88.
Strategic report Governance
49 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 48 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
 Governance p.48
Read more related to these topics
Strategic report Strategic report
5 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Focus and energy, to drive the execution 
of our ambitious plan.
FOCUS AND 
ENERGY
6 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executive’s review
Consistently strong investment returns are at the heart of  
what every asset manager aspires to deliver to their clients.  
We continued to perform well across our five core capabilities, 
helping our clients capture benefits during strong markets  
and mitigate their losses when market conditions became  
more challenging. 
We saw strong investment performance in areas of significant 
client demand – European assets, as client funds continued to 
flow into Europe; income-focused strategies, as interest rates 
remained chronically low; and also alternatives, where our low 
volatility absolute return strategies appealed to clients looking  
for returns coupled with reliable downside protection.
The investments we made to broaden the range of investment 
styles we offer our clients are starting to bear fruit, with many  
of our new investment teams starting to develop impressive  
track records.
In high yield credit, the US team has top-quartile performance 
over one year as it approaches its three year track record in April 
2016. We recruited an Emerging Markets Equity team in January 
2015 to complement the Emerging Markets Debt team who 
started in 2014. We have been introducing their ideas and 
investment process to clients this year, to position them for  
a return in demand when these styles come back into favour.
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
2015 has been another strong year for Henderson. 
We have executed well on our strategy to grow and 
globalise our business.
In my review last year, I said 2015 would be all about delivery  
of Henderson’s strategy. A year on, how have we done?
Investment performance by core capability
 1 year 3 years
European Equities 80% 92%
Global Equities 77% 81%
Global Fixed Income 63% 77%
Multi-Asset 83% 98%
Alternatives 98% 66%
Total 78% 81%
Note:
Percentage of funds, asset-weighted, that are outperforming based on the relevant metric: peer percentile ranking for Retail, positive for Absolute Return, positive versus 
benchmark for Institutional.
Strategic report Strategic report
7 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executive’s review continued
During 2015, we have been delighted to see a strong recovery  
in performance at Henderson Geneva Capital Management, the 
US small- and mid-cap growth equity manager we acquired in 
October 2014. The mid-cap fund ended 2015 5.2% ahead of 
benchmarks since the acquisition, and the small-cap fund was 
8.4% ahead. Did we change Geneva’s investment process? 
Absolutely not. One of Henderson’s strengths is that we give 
experienced managers freedom to manage money according to 
tried and tested investment styles, and support them with a risk 
management framework that adds value for managers and clients 
alike. This is an approach which enables us to recruit and retain 
talented managers. 
Strong investment performance led to another year of record-
breaking inflows of client money, totalling £8.5bn. This represents 
net new money growth of 11%
1, 2
, well ahead of the industry 
growth rate of 2%.
In our Retail business, we gained share in our major markets  
and saw flows of £8.0bn. In our SICAVs range – which is sold 
not only in Continental Europe but also in Latin America and  
Asia – the diversity of our product range led to inflows of £4.3bn,  
with the top-selling funds being Henderson Gartmore Continental 
European and Henderson Gartmore UK Absolute Return. 
In our UK ranges, industry flows were strongest into passive 
managers rather than the active sectors where Henderson 
participates but despite this, we saw continuing demand for 
Henderson UK Property and Henderson UK Absolute Return. 
In the US, demand persisted for European, international and 
global equities, but there were also promising new developments 
to broaden our US business, including our first engagement to 
sub-advise a closed-end fund, which raised US$315m at launch. 
Our Institutional business continues to mature, with many of the 
new global investment strategies we have under development 
expected to appeal to Institutional clients. The year saw good 
wins with fixed income clients, which were counter-balanced by 
our planned exit from the Private Equity business. We continue  
to be optimistic about our medium-term growth prospects in  
the Institutional channel. 
2015 has seen steady expansion of our distribution reach  
and deepening of our client relationships, in particular with our 
largest global customers. In our relationships with our clients,  
we have focused on the content and timeliness of the materials 
we provide, to bring alive our core brand proposition – 
Knowledge. Shared.
A key focus of the investment in our business over the last  
few years has been to build a scalable operating platform  
to enable us to improve our profitability as we grow. This year  
saw us generate record underlying profits before tax from 
continuing operations of £220.0m, at a slightly improved 
operating margin of 35.7%. For the second consecutive year  
since we launched our growth and globalisation strategy in  
2014, our underlying pre-tax profit from continuing operations 
has outgrown our revenues.
3,000
4,000
2,000
1,000
-1,000
0
Total
Institutional
US Retail
Retail SICAVs
(1,269)
(182)
1,241
2,701
2,988
2,042
1,366
742
3,554
2,040
1,305
1,643
UK Retail/Other
3
Net client ﬂows (£m)
1Q13 2Q13 3Q13 4Q13 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15
11% annualised 
NNM growth FY15
1, 2
One of Henderson’s strengths is that we give experienced managers  
freedom to manage money according to tried and tested investment styles. ”
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Notes:
1. Net new money (NNM) growth represents annualised net flows as a percentage of the opening AUM for the relevant period.
2. Excludes AUM subject to Property transactions with TIAA-CREF and resultant TH Real Estate joint venture AUM but includes Henderson UK Property OEIC.
3. Includes flows from UK OEICs, Unit Trusts, Investment Trusts, Australian Managed Investment Schemes and Singapore Mutuals.
8 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 As we moved forward with our strategic plan, I reviewed  
our management structure to make sure that it was keeping  
pace with the changes in our business. In December 2015,  
after significant progress with the build out of our investment 
management teams, I took the decision after consultation  
with the Board that the role of Chief Investment Officer was 
redundant, which meant that Rob Gambi left the business  
as part of a broader streamlining of the Executive Committee 
(ExCo). I would like to thank Rob for his contribution  
to Henderson and wish him well for the future. 
This year has also seen a significant improvement in our capital 
position. As at 31 December 2015, capital above our regulatory 
requirement was around £100m without recourse to our 
investment firm waiver from consolidated supervision, which 
expires in April 2016. We sold our 40% interest in TH Real 
Estate in June 2015 but retained exposure to the property  
market though our very successful Henderson UK Property  
fund, which is sub-advised by TH Real Estate. Part of the 
proceeds of this sale was recycled into a series of acquisitions  
in Australia – Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and global natural resources equity manager,  
90 West. Our Australian heritage and shareholder base give  
our fledgling business there disproportionate levels of brand 
recognition. These three acquisitions – with the investment 
management expertise and distribution reach they bring –  
are designed to build on the strong base we have established  
in Australia and accelerate the growth of our Australian business. 
Case study: Henderson in America 
The progress we have made in the US in 2015 is a good example of growth and 
globalisation in action.
Henderson launched its US distribution network in 2001 and has steadily grown its  
US Retail business. Our experienced US distribution team has utilised a consultative 
approach to share Henderson’s global investing expertise and perspectives with clients. 
Henderson’s differentiated product line-up and actively managed style has resonated  
well with investors across the continent, resulting in record inflows for 2015 of US$3.5bn,  
38% growth in net new money. The Henderson Global Funds family is now one of the  
top 10 fastest-growing mutual fund families of its size in the US and over half the eligible 
fund range is rated 4 or 5 stars by Morningstar.
In the last three years, we have taken significant steps to accelerate growth and diversify 
our investment management capabilities to US clients. These actions started to deliver in 
2015. Henderson Geneva Capital Management, which was acquired in 2014, performed 
exceptionally well in 2015 and the US Credit team has a top-quartile ranking in the High 
Yield Opportunities Fund since inception in April 2013.
A steady pipeline of product development since 2010 has yielded new funds such as 
Dividend & Income Builder, a 5-star rated core equity-income fund, and five more funds that 
are reaching their three year track records in 2016 and 2017 . In addition, we continue to 
build strong Institutional relationships and nurture our intermediary network, where we were 
pleased to sub-advise the First Trust Dynamic Europe Equity Fund, opening a new channel 
for us in closed-end funds. 
The US business has become a significant contributor to Henderson’s global success as  
it continues to grow, strengthen and diversify its investment capabilities, product offerings, 
distribution channels, and mix of AUM.
In priority order, our preferences for deploying capital  
are to: invest organically in the growth of our business;  
invest inorganically to accelerate growth where appropriate;  
and return surplus capital to shareholders. In 2015, we signalled  
our intention to distribute surplus capital with a £25m buyback  
in the second half of the year, in addition to increasing our 
ordinary dividend. 
To my mind, our strategy has five key deliverables:
• Strong investment performance 
• Above-industry growth in net new client money
• Carefully targeted investment in investment management,  
client relationships and our global operating platform
• Improved operating leverage
• Disciplined use of capital.
Supporting all of these is a sixth, less tangible, but overarching 
objective: delivering what we promise to our clients. This year,  
as a firm, we have worked hard to deliver to our clients, and  
have achieved excellent results. Having achieved net new money 
growth of 11% per annum since we launched our growth and 
globalisation strategy in 2014, we are on track to achieve our 
goal of doubling AUM by 2018. 
Strategic report Strategic report
9 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 What’s next?
To deliver our strategy to grow and globalise our business,  
we will continue to focus on four key priorities:
• Deliver first-class investment performance and service  
to our clients
• Expand our global investment offering to meet the current  
and future needs of our clients
• Diversify our business through product and geographic expansion
• Operate efficiently.
On paper, the strategies of many asset managers look similar.  
In practice, what differentiates us is the calibre of the people we 
have charged with executing these strategies. I would like to take 
this opportunity to pay tribute to my colleagues at Henderson 
who have worked hard this year to deliver on behalf of our clients. 
To the investment managers, long established and new who have 
delivered excellent investment performance. To the client-focused 
teams who never let us forget who we serve. To the infrastructure 
teams who have collaborated across the globe to deliver complex 
projects like the integration of our Australian acquisitions. To the 
assurance teams who ensure that we remain compliant, and keep 
abreast of the ever more complex demands of our regulators.  
To the 174 people who have been with Henderson for more than 
10 years, and the Investment 2020 trainees who bring diversity 
and fresh ideas. Henderson prospers thanks to a dedicated 
workforce, whose work ethic is summed up in our chosen  
guiding principles of collaboration, conviction and responsibility.
We enter 2016 with continued strong momentum, knowing  
that we grew at a higher rate than our peer group in 2015.  
This positions us well for what could prove to be challenging 
conditions ahead – in terms of global markets, regulatory scrutiny 
and changing client needs. We are far from complacent, and are 
resolved to continue to deliver strongly in 2016, for the benefit  
of our clients and shareholders. 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review continued
These priorities encourage us not only to execute 
well, but to be agile enough to respond to changes 
in market conditions. ”
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
These priorities encourage us not only to execute well, but  
to be agile enough to respond to changes in market conditions, 
whether they present opportunities or threats. 
In the course of 2015, we were careful to divide our time 
between achieving short-term milestones and considering  
how the future looks for our clients and our industry. 
Trends preoccupying our clients include the shift of the  
retirement burden from the state and corporates to the individual, 
driven by structural pension reforms and the demographics of  
an ageing population. This is a trend we see developing at 
varying speeds across many of the jurisdictions in which we 
operate – from Australia to the US. Linked to this is the shift in 
investment demand from traditional products into passive, 
multi-asset and outcome-oriented products and mandates.  
A key strategic decision for Henderson is where we can add 
value in this changing environment – and where we cannot.  
Our focus remains on our core capabilities in active investment 
management, but with increasing focus on outcome-oriented 
strategies linked to income generation, absolute return and 
preservation of capital. 
We have also taken time this year to consider mega-trends 
affecting our industry – everything from disruptive innovation  
and cyber security to climate change. We are far from pretending 
to have a neat set of answers for these powerful forces, but  
we are alert to the threats – as well as the opportunities – they 
present, and are looking in particular for opportunities to harness 
changes in technology in performance management, risk 
management and client engagement. 
10 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Awareness and agility, to keep moving 
forward and adapt when necessary  
to changes in market conditions and 
regulatory environments.
AWARENESS 
AND AGILITY
Strategic report Strategic report
11 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 A client-centric business model
Business model
Our business model focuses first and foremost on our clients.
We deploy our resources and relationships in the interests of our clients to generate sustained value for all our 
stakeholders – notably clients, shareholders and employees.
This client-centric approach governs what we will and will not do as a business. It enables us to fulfil our mission 
as a trusted global asset manager, which is to deliver excellent performance and service to our clients.
How we generate and preserve value  
over the long term
Our clients entrust money to Henderson – either their own 
or money they manage for their clients – and expect us to deliver 
the benefits specified in their mandate or funds prospectus. 
We measure these monies as assets under management – 
AUM – and growth in AUM is a key output of our strategy. 
Our AUM increases or decreases, primarily depending on  
our ability to attract and retain clients’ money, our investment 
performance, and currency movements. To the extent that 
Henderson invests in new asset management businesses 
or divests from existing ones, this is reflected in AUM.
Our clients pay us a management fee, which is usually 
represented as a percentage of the client money we manage.  
In addition, Henderson may receive a performance fee from  
clients when our managers deliver strong investment 
performance. Management and performance fees are 
Henderson’s most important sources of revenue. The  
more diverse the range of investment strategies from  
which our management and performance fees derive,  
the more sustainable our business model will be.
The resources which Henderson deploys to manage clients’ 
money are heavily people-focused. It is critically important to 
our business that we succeed in attracting and retaining high 
quality people across all business functions, including investment 
management, client relationship management, operations, finance 
and assurance. We invest to grow our business in a careful and 
targeted manner. The balance between cost discipline, reward 
and investment is key to the long-term success of our business.
We generate value for our shareholders by delivering strong 
investment performance and sustained revenue growth. Our 
business model is scalable, which means that earnings growth 
should follow revenue growth. A high proportion of our earnings 
converts into cash, which we then distribute to shareholders, 
usually via ordinary dividends. As our capital position strengthens, 
we will have increased flexibility to redeploy excess capital, fund 
organic growth and globalisation, supplement organic growth with 
value accretive acquisitions, and increase returns to shareholders.
Our strengths
Asset management business models all look very similar at  
a high level. Here are the factors which differentiate Henderson: 
• Focus on active – not passive – fund management by 
investment managers with unique individual perspectives,  
who operate unconstrained by a house view, within a strong 
risk management framework
• A strong, investment-led culture, based on the values of 
collaboration, conviction and responsibility, which enables  
us to adapt effectively to changes in market conditions and 
makes Henderson a sought-after place to work
• A deeply held sense of corporate responsibility, focused  
on responsible investment and client engagement, but also  
on our people, the communities in which we work and  
the environment
• Successful investment track records in both traditional and 
alternative investment styles, across a diverse product range
• Growing global footprint with retail and institutional clients
• An attractive, aspirational brand centred around the  
proposition of Knowledge. Shared, made relevant by our 
growing reputation for delivering relevant digital content  
to clients in a timely fashion.
12 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Our mission
Our clients and  
their end customers 
Our resources, relationships  
and responsibilities
Outcomes 
To be a trusted global asset manager, focused on delivering excellent performance and service to our clients
Our clients are financial professionals, private and institutional investors. The roles and needs of different market 
practitioners vary across the globe, and we adapt our client relationships and investment approach accordingly.
Core investment management capabilities 
• Active investment management by high calibre teams in 
European Equities, Global Equities, Global Fixed Income, 
Multi-Asset and Alternatives  p.30
• Value add from risk management
 
 p.23
Client relationships and brand  p.38
• Long-term focused relationship management and  
client service
• Forward looking product development and prioritisation
• Careful brand management
Our people  p.42
Expertise in investment management, risk management,  
client relationship management, finance and operations
Corporate responsibility  p.44
Corporate responsibility matters to us, not just from  
a trust and brand perspective, but because of the  
proven correlation between good governance and  
strong long-term performance. Our five corporate 
responsibility pillars focus on responsible investment, 
clients, the environment, community and our people
  F or clients
•  Strong investment performance
• Excellent service
• Partnership-based relationships
• Trust
For shareholders
• Sustained income and profit growth
• Strong profit conversion
• Dividend growth and capital returns
For employees
• Attractive career prospects
• Competitive remuneration  
and benefits
• Benefits of working for  
a growing business
• Strong corporate culture
Strategic report Strategic report
13 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategy
Our strategy focuses on achieving growth and globalisation by delivering 
excellent performance and service to an increasingly diverse client base. 
We aim to deliver a sustained period of organic growth, attracting net new money from clients at a higher rate than that of our 
industry peers. We will supplement this organic growth with value accretive acquisitions. By 2018, we will have established  
a truly global footprint, infrastructure and mind set.
Our success in delivering our strategy depends on strong execution of our business plans but also on being agile enough  
to assess changes in market conditions and respond where appropriate to opportunities and threats.
Growth and globalisation
Strategic priority How we performed in 2015 Key performance 
indicators
Principal risks The result
1.  Deliver first-class investment 
performance and service to  
our clients
Our strategy is focused on the needs of our clients, 
delivering consistent value to them through active 
investment management and serving them responsibly, 
wherever they are in the world.
• Investment performance remained consistently strong,  
with 81% of funds outperforming on a three year basis.
• Continued embedding the fair treatment of customers  
into the firm’s business model, including: 
• Appointment of Customer Champions in the US and Asia
• Global roll out of annual Customer Interests Staff Survey
• Relaunch of mandatory Customer Interests training  
for a global audience.
*  Denotes a Short-Term 
Incentive remuneration  
KPI  See p.67
(1) Treating customers fairly
(2) Investment performance*
• Investment performance
• Market
• Liquidity
Assuming market growth in line with the long-term industry 
average, the output of our strategy will be to double our assets 
under management.
2.  Expand our global investment 
offering to meet the current and 
future needs of our clients
We deploy our expertise across our core capabilities to 
find attractive and innovative opportunities for our clients, 
and provide products which consistently meet their 
current and future needs.
• The core capabilities we require to meet our 2018 objectives 
are in place, but we will continue to evaluate new 
opportunities to deliver value to our clients.
• Organic build of an Emerging Markets Equities team  
to add to the 2014 build out of Emerging Markets Debt.
• New offerings at or close to their three year track records  
in global equities, high yield credit, absolute return bond  
and multi-asset.
(2) Investment performance*
(3) Net fund flows*
• Fund flows
• Key personnel
3.  Diversify our business
We have ambitious plans for growth and are expanding 
our investment management and distribution reach to 
deliver value to a broader client base.
• Good progress in the US, with 27% of Henderson’s  
total net flows in 2015 into the US Mutuals range and  
a significant recovery in investment performance at Henderson 
Geneva Capital Management since the acquisition closed.
• Acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and 90 West in Australia to expand investment 
management capabilities and client reach.
(3) Net fund flows*
(4) Fee margins
• Acquisitions and 
divestments
• Strategic
4. Operate efficiently
Our operating model is designed to meet client needs, 
attract and retain excellent people and deliver profitable 
growth. As our business grows, we aim to build operating 
leverage and capital strength.
• Scalable operating platform in place to facilitate growth  
and globalisation.
• Significant investment in regulatory expertise to manage 
constant change.
• Disciplined management of financial resources to generate  
a regulatory capital surplus and facilitate return of capital  
to shareholders.
(3) Net fund flows*
(4) Fee margins
(5)  Operating margin and 
compensation ratio*
(6) Earnings per share
• Operational, IT and legal
• Regulatory change
14 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic priority How we performed in 2015 Key performance 
indicators
Principal risks The result
1.  Deliver first-class investment 
performance and service to  
our clients
Our strategy is focused on the needs of our clients, 
delivering consistent value to them through active 
investment management and serving them responsibly, 
wherever they are in the world.
• Investment performance remained consistently strong,  
with 81% of funds outperforming on a three year basis.
• Continued embedding the fair treatment of customers  
into the firm’s business model, including: 
• Appointment of Customer Champions in the US and Asia
• Global roll out of annual Customer Interests Staff Survey
• Relaunch of mandatory Customer Interests training  
for a global audience.
*  Denotes a Short-Term 
Incentive remuneration  
KPI  See p.67
(1) Treating customers fairly
(2) Investment performance*
• Investment performance
• Market
• Liquidity
Assuming market growth in line with the long-term industry 
average, the output of our strategy will be to double our assets 
under management.
2.  Expand our global investment 
offering to meet the current and 
future needs of our clients
We deploy our expertise across our core capabilities to 
find attractive and innovative opportunities for our clients, 
and provide products which consistently meet their 
current and future needs.
• The core capabilities we require to meet our 2018 objectives 
are in place, but we will continue to evaluate new 
opportunities to deliver value to our clients.
• Organic build of an Emerging Markets Equities team  
to add to the 2014 build out of Emerging Markets Debt.
• New offerings at or close to their three year track records  
in global equities, high yield credit, absolute return bond  
and multi-asset.
(2) Investment performance*
(3) Net fund flows*
• Fund flows
• Key personnel
3.  Diversify our business
We have ambitious plans for growth and are expanding 
our investment management and distribution reach to 
deliver value to a broader client base.
• Good progress in the US, with 27% of Henderson’s  
total net flows in 2015 into the US Mutuals range and  
a significant recovery in investment performance at Henderson 
Geneva Capital Management since the acquisition closed.
• Acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and 90 West in Australia to expand investment 
management capabilities and client reach.
(3) Net fund flows*
(4) Fee margins
• Acquisitions and 
divestments
• Strategic
4. Operate efficiently
Our operating model is designed to meet client needs, 
attract and retain excellent people and deliver profitable 
growth. As our business grows, we aim to build operating 
leverage and capital strength.
• Scalable operating platform in place to facilitate growth  
and globalisation.
• Significant investment in regulatory expertise to manage 
constant change.
• Disciplined management of financial resources to generate  
a regulatory capital surplus and facilitate return of capital  
to shareholders.
(3) Net fund flows*
(4) Fee margins
(5)  Operating margin and 
compensation ratio*
(6) Earnings per share
• Operational, IT and legal
• Regulatory change
Read more about our strategy – our progress to date, 
risk management and priorities in 2016:
  Key performance indicators p.16
 Financial review p.18
 Risk management p.23
 Chief Executive’s review p.7
Doubling assets under management by 2018
2013 2018
£63.7bn
AUM 
doubled
Net new money – 
6-8% per annum
2 years to Dec 2015: 
1 1% per annum
Market/FX –  
4-6% per annum
2 years to Dec 2015: 
5% per annum
Acquisitions –  
2-4% per annum
2 years to Dec 2015: 
4% per annum
Strategic report Strategic report
15 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Key performance indicators
We measure our strategic and operational progress through a set of indicators  
that focus on core performance factors.
2. Investment performance over 1 and 3 years (%)
Investment performance over 1 and 3 years (%)
100
80
90
60
50
70
1 year % of assets at/exceeding relevant metric over: 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
3 years
1. Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Outcome 1
Culture
Achieved 2014
 RAG count (months)
Outcome 2
Products
Outcome 3
Information
Outcome 4
Advice
*
Outcome 5
Performance
Outcome 6
Barriers
Y et to be achieved In progress
Achieved 2015 In progress
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
Note:
* While Henderson does not give advice, we recognise our responsibilities  
as a product provider in satisfying ourselves that products we develop are 
being sold in line with our expectations of the type of customer for which  
they were designed.
Link to strategy
Strong investment performance underpins our growth strategy, 
our reputation and our ability to attract net new money from 
clients. We measure the percentage of our assets at or 
exceeding the relevant metric over one and three years  
to monitor our performance.
Performance
• At the end of 2015, 78% of funds had outperformed over one 
year and 81% over three years, demonstrating consistently 
strong investment performance
• Investment performance was strong across all of our core 
capabilities, with two thirds or over of our assets in each 
capability outperforming over three years
Link to strategy
With our clients’ needs at the heart of everything we do, we 
continue to strive to meet the expectations of our clients and  
their customers and to embed the fair treatment of customers  
into the firm’s business model.
Embedding is measured using monthly management information 
to derive a “Red Amber Green” (RAG) rating for each of the six 
FCA TCF outcomes.
Performance
Improvements were achieved in the timely delivery of fund 
information to our clients (Outcome 3), while a number of  
specific areas for enhancement relating to customer service  
were identified and addressed over the year (Outcome 5). 
Key customer-focused initiatives have included:
• Customer Champions appointed in the US and Asia, reporting 
customer issues to local management as well as the London-
based Customer Interests and TCF Committee
• Continued engagement with the Henderson Customer Panel 
– providing a real time dialogue with 450+ of our UK direct 
Retail clients – to help better understand their needs and 
inform the launch of products and services
• Customer Interests Staff Survey
1
 on performance in achieving 
client goals, expanded to all staff globally in 2015, showed  
an improved response rate of 84% (2014 (UK only): 71%).
3. Net fund flows (£m)
Net Fund Flows (£m)
8,000
4,000
6,000
2,000
0
-8,000
-6,000
-4,000
-2,000
2011
Retail net ﬂows
2012 2013 2014 2015
T otal net ﬂows Institutional net ﬂows
Link to strategy
Net fund flows are a strong lead indicator of the success  
of our strategy and are a key driver of revenue and profitability. 
Reflected in the mix of our fund flows are investment 
performance, distribution and client service, the success  
of our product offering in meeting client needs, and our strategy 
to globalise our business, as well as external market factors.
Performance
• Net new money growth of 11% (excluding TH Real Estate)
• Total net fund inflows of £8.5bn driven by our Retail business 
which contributed £8.0bn
• Institutional net flows of £0.5bn despite the exit from our 
Private Equity business driving an outflow of £545m
• Our significant net fund inflows reflect strong investment 
performance across an increasingly diverse product range
16 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Notes:
1. The survey captures UK staff attitudes to customer-centric topics.
2. Net margin, operating margin, compensation ratio and basic and diluted earnings per share are all based upon continuing underl ying profit before tax which, while  
not a GAAP measure, in the opinion of the Directors, gives relevant information on the profitability of the Group and its ongoing operations.
4. Fee margins (bps)
2
Fee margins (bps)
1
T otal fee margin Management fee margin Net margin
2
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
100
60
80
20
0
40
Link to strategy
Fee margins are under constant pressure across our industry – 
from clients, intermediaries, competitors and regulators.  
Our average fee margin is a strong indicator of our ability to  
adapt and respond to these pressures, by delivering the right 
product at the right price to our clients, globally.
Performance
• Total fee margin decreased slightly to 72.0bps and 
management fee margin decreased to 56.0bps. These 
declines were driven by strong Retail flows offset by the exit 
from Private Equity, the impact of the win of revenue neutral 
Institutional mandates and the acquisition of the lower fee rate 
Perennial business
• Net margin remained relatively stable at 26.3bps, highlighting 
our ability to maintain operational efficiency
5. Operating margin and compensation ratio (%)
2
Compensation ratio and operating margin
1
Compensation ratio
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Operating margin
50
45
35
30
40
Link to strategy
Our ability to deliver value to our clients and shareholders 
depends on achieving the right balance between investing  
in the growth of our business, rewarding and retaining our staff 
and operating efficiently. These two ratios enable us to monitor 
this balance.
Performance
• Operating margin improved slightly in 2015 to 35.7%, driven 
by increased underlying profit and top-line revenue growth
• Compensation ratio remained broadly flat in 2015 at 44.6%, 
despite staff being rewarded for strong business performance, 
and the share price growth causing higher share scheme costs
6. Earnings per share on continuing  
underlying profit (p)
2 Earnings per share on continuing 
underlying proﬁt (p)
2
Basic 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Diluted
25
15
20
5
0
10
Link to strategy
Earnings per share on continuing underlying profit is a clear 
measure of our ability to deliver sustainable, profitable growth  
on a global basis, and deliver value to our shareholders.
Performance
• Diluted earnings per share on continuing underlying profit  
grew to 17 .2 pence in 2015, up from 14.7 pence in 2014
• Growth was primarily driven by the 17% increase in continuing 
underlying profit before tax, complemented by a reduction in 
the effective tax rate caused primarily by some one-off items
Strategic report Strategic report
17 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial review
Financial performance
We delivered strong investment performance for our clients, 
record net fund inflows of £8.5bn, a 17% increase in underlying 
profit before tax
1
 from continuing operations and an increase in 
continuing underlying diluted EPS of 17%. Our total dividend 
rose broadly in line with earnings to 10.3 pence per share, and 
we completed a share buyback programme to the value of £25m 
in the second half, which reflected our strong business 
performance and improving capital position. 
Financial KPIs (on continuing underlying operations) 2015
3 year investment performance 81%
Net fund flows £8.5bn
Management fee margin 56.0bps
Compensation ratio 44.6%
Operating margin 35.7%
Profit before tax £220.0m
Diluted EPS 17 .2p
In light of our strong investment performance and flows, the 
Group achieved underlying profit before tax from continuing 
operations of £220.0m. Management fees – our principal 
revenue stream – increased by 16% to £468.3m, while 
management fee margins held up reasonably well at 56.0bps 
despite a change in business mix and acquisition of the Perennial 
businesses at a lower margin. Our investment performance for 
clients led to exceptional performance fees of £98.7m which 
continue to be an important contributor to our revenue, ensuring 
that we remain aligned with the interests of our clients. 
Total operating expenses from continuing operations increased 
by 16% to £386.8m.
Employee compensation and benefits increased by 16% driven 
by wage inflation, the full year effect of 2014 initiatives and the 
acquisition of Henderson Geneva Capital Management, as well 
as increased variable compensation following a period of strong 
flows and business performance, including additional costs 
driven by the rising share price.
Non-staff expenses rose by 15% as we invested in our global 
infrastructure and we also saw cost inflation associated with  
risk and compliance, in response to new regulation.
The 17% increase in underlying profit from continuing operations 
in 2015 was driven by strong fund flows and excellent investment 
performance, particularly in absolute return products, which in 
turn led to increases in variable compensation. As our business 
diversifies and we reach scale in our capabilities, we expect to  
be able to deliver an improvement in our operating margin and  
a reduction in our compensation ratio. These two key ratios saw  
a slight improvement, with operating margin at 35.7% (2014: 
35.5%) and compensation ratio at 44.6% (2014: 44.7%). 
Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations increased 
by 18% to £197 .1m, reflecting a tax charge for the period of 
£22.9m and effective tax rate of 10.4%. Ignoring the effect  
of one-off items, our normalised tax rate was 15.2%. With 
increasing profits arising from acquisitions in higher tax 
jurisdictions and forthcoming changes in the global tax 
environment, the effective tax rate going forward will be  
much closer to the current UK tax rate of 20%.
Diluted continuing underlying EPS increased by 17%  
to 17 .2 pence, primarily driven by an increase in profit.
Strategically, we made good progress towards our growth and 
globalisation goals and we enter 2016 with strong momentum. 
Last year, we said we delivered performance for clients and invested for future growth. 
What further progress have we made in 2015?
2015 has been a productive year for Henderson.  
Our recent organic investments and acquisitions are 
performing well. Overall, 2015 was a year of delivery.
Roger Thompson
Chief Financial Officer
Note:
1. Net margin, compensation ratio, operating margin and diluted earnings per 
share are all based upon continuing underlying profit which, while not a GAAP 
measure, in the opinion of the Directors, gives relevant information on the 
profitability of the Group and its ongoing operations.
18 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 AUM and flows
AUM by channel (£m)
Opening AUM  
1 Jan 15
Net  
flows
Market/  
FX
Acquisitions/ 
 disposals
Closing AUM  
31 Dec 15
Retail 46,007 8,032 2,285 591 56,915
Institutional 35,155 510 963 (1,558) 35,070
Total 81,162 8,542 3,248 (967) 91,985
The Group’s total AUM as at 31 December 2015 was £92.0bn, 
reflecting net inflows of £8.5bn, market and FX movements  
of £3.2bn and a net £0.9bn reduction from acquisitions  
and disposals.
Record net inflows in 2015 represented overall net new  
money growth of 11% (excluding Property related AUM with  
the exception of Henderson UK Property OEIC (HUKPOEIC)), 
which was well ahead of the 6-8% target set out in our growth 
and globalisation plan. Flows have been driven by our Retail 
business this year but we are pleased with the progress we are 
making in the Institutional segment and remain optimistic about 
the pipeline of global institutional-grade strategies. 
Net flows by product £m
Retail 8,032
UK OEIC/Unit Trust/Other 1,261
SICAVs 4,328
US Mutuals 2,291
Investment Trusts 152
Institutional 510
Total 8,542
The year started exceptionally strongly, with increased  
client demand for European assets. Flows were supported  
by the announcement of further Quantitative Easing (QE) in 
Europe and we were well placed to benefit with excellent 
investment performance from our core European products.  
As the year progressed, market conditions became more 
challenging and investors sought downside protection from 
products offering income and risk-adjusted returns. 
UK Retail flows remained consistent across the year, although  
at a lower level than that for 2014 – a trend observed across 
active managers in the industry. Top-selling UK Retail funds 
included HUKPOEIC, Henderson UK Absolute Return and 
Henderson Strategic Bond, as client demand for alternative 
sources of income and absolute return products increased.
SICAVs were our top-performing range within our Retail business 
with record net inflows of £4.3bn. European QE was a driver of 
2015 movements in AUM (£bn)
100
0
20
40
60
80
1 Jan 15 Market/FX Net ﬂows Acquisitions 31 Dec 15 Disposals & 
transfers
3.2
81.2
8.5 (6.8) 5.9
1
92.0
Sale of stake in 
TH Real Estate 
Property fund 
& 90 West
European Special
Situations transfer
Perennial Fixed 
Interest & 
Growth Mgmt
inflows at the start of the year but, as market volatility increased  
in the second half, we were pleased that the diversified nature  
of our product range and increasingly global client base helped 
to sustain momentum.
Our US business had a very successful year. Unlike the trend 
observed in 2014 where demand for European, global and 
international equities waned in the second half, mutual fund  
flows in 2015 were strong throughout the year as US confidence 
in these regions grew. As demonstrated in the earlier case study 
in Andrew Formica’s review, we made important steps towards 
broadening our US client offering this year, and we are excited 
about our future prospects in this key market. 
Institutional activity in 2015 was dominated by fixed income 
clients. We reported a small net inflow of £0.5bn for the year  
and were encouraged by the high level of client activity which  
is becoming increasingly global.
Institutional flows were particularly strong in the first half with  
the funding of a £1.7bn fixed income mandate, in addition to 
positive interest in styles including multi-asset credit and absolute 
return bond as clients diversified their fixed income exposure. 
Client demand for income continued in the second half with  
good flows into outcome-oriented strategies in fixed income such 
as diversified credit and total return bond. However, outflows 
from traditional core sterling credit mandates partly offset inflows, 
as well as the £0.5bn outflow associated with the planned run-off 
of our Private Equity business. Nevertheless, momentum is strong 
and with a good pipeline of institutional investment strategies,  
we remain optimistic about the outlook for this business.
Overall market and FX movements for the period totalled £3.2bn. 
The importance of markets in delivering our AUM goal became 
apparent in the second and third quarters when volatility increased. 
However, our active management enabled us to navigate the 
challenging market backdrop and we continued to outperform. 
The Group completed a number of transactions in 2015, the 
largest being the divestment of our 40% interest in TH Real 
Estate, a joint venture with TIAA-CREF. In the first quarter,  
we acquired the Old Mutual property fund (£0.5bn) which 
merged into the HUKPOEIC. In June, we saw the departure  
of the European Special Situations fund which was reflected  
as a £1.0bn disposal of AUM, and we also announced our plans 
to accelerate growth in Australia. We took full ownership of 90 
West Asset Management in May, which contributed £0.1bn of 
AUM, and completed the acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest 
and Perennial Growth Management in November which added 
another £5.2bn. The planned roll-off of the Group’s Private Equity 
Note:
1. Adjusted for rounding.
19 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report Financial review continued
business in October represented the best possible exit for  
the infrastructure funds, but we were very disappointed in  
the outcome for some of our clients. 
Over the course of the year, we made positive steps towards  
the delivery of our long-term strategy and overall net new  
money growth of 11% (excluding Property related AUM with  
the exception of HUKPOEIC) demonstrates that we have 
continued to take market share across our key retail markets.
Income drivers
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Income
Management fees (net of commissions) 468.3 403.5
Performance fees 98.7 82.8
Other income 34.8 32.5
Net fee income from continuing operations 601.8 518.8
(Loss)/income from associates and  
joint ventures (0.2) 5.1
Finance income 17.3 10.1
Net income from continuing operations 618.9 534.0
Management fees and fee margins
As a result of strong net inflows, in combination with excellent 
investment performance, management fees increased from 
£403.5m in 2014 to £468.3m, up 16%.
The Group’s management fee margin averaged 56.0bps in 2015, 
a decrease of 1.8bps on 2014 (57 .8bps) which was largely 
attributable to business mix. Average institutional margins have 
reduced to 26.8bps due to the ongoing roll-off of our Private 
Equity business and a significant £1.7bn Institutional mandate 
win in the first quarter – a positive outcome as a result of an 
insurance client consolidating managers but broadly neutral  
in terms of revenue impact. Retail margins continue to remain 
relatively stable at 73.6bps, reflecting the strong momentum  
in our higher margin retail equities business and client demand 
for absolute return products. The acquisition of Perennial Fixed 
Interest and Perennial Growth Management, with lower average 
management fee margins, only had a small negative impact  
of 0.3bps in 2015.
Performance fees
In 2015, performance remained very strong with 81% of funds 
outperforming on a three year basis and 78% outperforming  
on a one year basis. 
We delivered performance fees of £98.7m, a significant increase 
on the level reported in 2014 (£82.8m) and an excellent result 
reflecting continued strong investment returns for clients against 
a particularly volatile market backdrop.
We saw strong relative growth in performance fees generated 
from SICAVs, driven by excellent performance across  
funds including Henderson Gartmore UK Absolute Return, 
Henderson Pan European Alpha and Henderson Horizon  
Pan European Equity.
In line with last year, performance fees in 2015 accounted for 
16% of net fee income – a level with which we are comfortable. 
Although current performance is being driven by our core areas 
of strength, a number of our new capabilities are also performing 
well, creating a solid foundation for the future. 
Performance fees
SICAVs 48%
Offshore Absolute Return  25%
UK OEICs & Unit Trusts 12%
Investment Trusts 10%
Segregated Mandates 4%
Other 1%
Other income and income from associates and 
joint ventures
In 2015, other income increased slightly from £32.5m to 
£34.8m, an increase of 7%. The largest component of this  
line item is a general administration charge to UK funds. 
Income from associates and joint ventures decreased from 
£5.1m in 2014 and turned negative in 2015 (£0.2m). The  
largest contributor to income from associates and joint ventures 
in 2014 was TH Real Estate which was divested in June 2015.  
In 2015, TH Real Estate made a nominal contribution to 
continuing underlying profit.
Expense drivers
2015 
£m
2014  
£m
Expenses
Fixed employee compensation and benefits 99.9 88.4
Variable employee compensation and benefits 168.7 143.6
Total employee compensation and benefits 268.6 232.0
Non-staff operating expenses 118.2 102.6
Total operating expenses from continuing 
operations 386.8 334.6
Finance expenses 12.1 11.6
Total expenses from continuing operations 398.9 346.2
Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses increased by 16% to £386.8m,  
driven by a 16% increase in employee compensation and 
benefits and a 15% increase in non-staff operating expenses. 
Fixed employee compensation increased by 13% to £99.9m 
reflecting the full year effect of Henderson Geneva Capital 
Management and prior year investments, in combination with 
wage increases and a number of new hires. Costs attributable  
to the Perennial acquisitions were added in November 2015.
Variable employee compensation increased to £168.7m,  
up 17% – an outcome of our remuneration schemes being 
structured to reward strong business performance, principally 
investment performance and flows. In 2015, we saw strong 
performance across our absolute return range, for which the 
performance fee pay-out is higher. Our resulting compensation 
ratio for the period was 44.6%, of which 0.7% related to 
additional national insurance costs on share schemes arising 
from the increase in share price from 214.0 pence at 31 
December 2014 to 309.6 pence at 31 December 2015.
Our non-staff operating expenses increased by £15.6m  
to £118.2m, driven by increased regulatory project costs  
and continued investment in our global infrastructure. 
20 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Finance income and expenses
Finance income increased significantly from £10.1m in 2014  
to £17 .3m in 2015, driven by a £10.9m one-off gain on seed 
capital invested in the property funds which were sold to 
TIAA-CREF as part of the sale of our 40% stake in TH Real 
Estate. We subsequently reinvested this seed capital into  
our core business.
Finance expenses increased from £11.6m in 2014 to £12.1m  
in 2015 and reflected the interest payable on the 2016 Notes, 
which are due to be repaid in March 2016, and a small amount  
of other interest costs.
Acquisition related and non-recurring items
The acquisition related and non-recurring items are disclosed 
separately from that of the Group’s underlying profit to enable  
the users of our financial statements to better understand  
the components of our total profit. These costs totalled  
£35.9m after tax (2014: £85.0m profit) and are primarily 
attributable to intangible amortisation of previously acquired 
investment management contracts, offset by a gain of £12.3m 
before tax which was largely attributable to the sale of the 
Group’s 40% stake in TH Real Estate. In 2015, the Group 
recognised acquisition related costs of £5.9m before tax relating 
to deal and implementation expenses following the acquisition  
of Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth Management and 
90 West and the conclusion of the Henderson Geneva Capital 
Management integration. 
Australian acquisitions
On 1 November 2015, the Group completed its acquisitions  
of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management, 
resulting in a £5.2bn increase to our AUM. In a separate 
transaction which completed on 29 May 2015, the Group  
took full ownership of 90 West Asset Management – our global 
natural resources equity business.
Australia is an important strategic market for Henderson and  
our recent acquisitions bring recognised domestic investment 
management capabilities which complement our global offerings, 
and align with our objective of growth and globalisation. 
Tax
The tax charge on the Group’s underlying profit from continuing 
operations for 2015 was £22.9m, resulting in an effective tax 
charge of 10.4% (2014: 11.0%) in comparison to a pro-rata  
UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). In 2015,  
the Group benefited from profits in some overseas jurisdictions 
being subject to lower tax rates and one-off tax credits on 
settlement of items relating to prior years, which has reduced  
the effective tax rate. 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that our profits are subject  
to tax in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations  
in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, the Group’s 
future effective tax rate is dependent on any changes to such 
laws and regulations and is likely to rise to much nearer the  
UK tax rate in 2016.
Liquidity and capital management
The Group generated strong net operating cash flows, with total 
cash and cash equivalents of £381.6m at 31 December 2015 – 
an increase from £242.8m (including cash classified as held for 
sale) reported in 2014. Unrestricted cash stood at £352.6m after 
excluding manager dealing accounts, restricted cash and cash 
held in structured entities. With gross debt at par totalling  
£150.0m, the Group ended 2015 in a net cash position of 
£202.6m (2014: £77 .7m). We intend to repay our £150.0m 
2016 Notes maturing in March 2016 from cash resources.
Net cashflow was improved by a net £52.1m received from 
acquisitions and divestments, with the amounts received for  
the Group’s 40% stake in TH Real Estate outweighing amounts 
paid for the Perennial acquisitions. A net inflow of £7 .8m was 
received from seed capital investments, with amounts received 
for the disposal of the investments in TH Real Estate funds more 
than offsetting the £22.3m invested in new fund launches which 
included the Henderson Global Equity Income Fund in Australia 
and the Henderson Horizon Pan European Dividend Income 
Fund. We consider seed investments to be a positive use  
of capital in our business. The increase in net cash was 
moderated by the £25m share buyback which is described  
later in this section.
To ensure the Group has sufficient access to liquidity following 
repayment of the 2016 Notes, on 10 February 2016 the Group 
entered into a revolving credit facility for £30.0m. Currently,  
there are no amounts drawn down under this facility.
Turning to regulatory capital, the Group is subject to regulatory 
oversight by the FCA and international regulatory bodies. The 
Group ensures it is compliant with its regulatory obligations at  
all times. We continue to operate under an investment firm waiver 
from consolidation supervision until April 2016. The regulatory 
capital surplus of the Group under the parent financial holding 
company test was £918.4m as at 31 December 2015 (2014: 
£960.0m). However, based on our own calculations, capital 
above our regulatory requirement without recourse to the waiver 
was around £100.0m as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £44.0m). 
The improvement in our capital position over the course of the 
year has been driven by strong profits and the disposal of our 
stake in TH Real Estate, offset by dividend payments, the share 
buyback and the purchase of the Perennial businesses.
Dividend
The Board declared an interim dividend of 3.10 pence per share 
and is recommending a final dividend for 2015 of 7 .20 pence  
per share, bringing total dividends for 2015 to 10.30 pence  
per share, an increase of 14%. The proposed final dividend  
will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register  
on 6 May 2016. We continue to operate a progressive ordinary 
dividend policy and expect to grow our ordinary dividend broadly 
in line with underlying earnings growth over the medium term.
Share buyback
We are committed to the active management of our cash  
and capital resources. In 2015, our capital position strengthened 
which gave us increased flexibility around the deployment of our 
cash and capital, be that via organic growth, inorganic investment 
or returns to shareholders. In July, we announced that we were in 
a position of capital surplus and the Board was comfortable with 
our capital position following a period of strong business 
performance. Consequently, we were pleased to implement  
a share buyback programme to the value of £25m, which  
was completed in the second half of 2015.
21 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report Discipline and responsibility,  
to fulfil our obligations.
DISCIPLINE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY
22 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Developments in 2015
Investment underperformance risk, both relative to benchmark  
and in absolute terms, is a key risk affecting the Group’s 
business. Investor risk appetite and market prices are heavily 
determined by perceptions of macroeconomic and geopolitical 
risks. During 2015, these risks included continuing concerns  
over economic weakness in the eurozone, a significant loss  
of momentum in emerging markets, notably in China, and 
uncertainty over the timing and impact of any tightening of 
monetary policy in the USA. Heightened political risks included 
tensions in Eastern Europe, escalating violence in the Middle  
East and the impact of high levels of immigration on the cohesion 
of the European Union as well as the potential outcome of a 
referendum on the UK’s continued membership of the European 
Union and the associated implications of any subsequent ‘Brexit’. 
There were also heightened concerns over liquidity in fixed 
income markets and the potential consequences of large investor 
redemptions in this asset class. Henderson has not experienced 
any challenges in meeting redemptions in 2015, although we 
continue to monitor changes in liquidity risk closely and the 
potential impacts of such risks to our clients and funds via  
our Investment Risk team. 
The intensity of regulatory scrutiny in relation to the asset 
management sector as a whole has increased significantly  
in the year, especially in Europe, and will continue to require 
focused attention and investment to meet more demanding 
regulatory standards. Cyber risks have also continued to be  
a key area of focus for global regulators and the Company.  
We have sustained our programme of technology and process 
enhancements, coupled with global staff training, in this area.  
The emergence of disruptive technologies, such as robo-advice, 
and their potential impact to our current business model are 
being closely monitored.
Changes in internal risks have been primarily driven by the 
continued global expansion of the business, with increased 
investment management and support capability in global 
locations, associated integration processes and expanded  
third party relationships. We have continued to build out our 
global risk management capabilities to match the developments 
in the business.
Capital position
The quantum of Henderson’s risk exposure has not materially 
changed in 2015. Nevertheless, our successful delivery on  
our objectives throughout the year has led to a continued 
improvement in our capital position. This has enabled us to 
complete a £25m share buyback programme while maintaining 
estimated capital above our regulatory requirement of around  
£100m at 31 December 2015 (on a without recourse to the 
investment firm consolidation waiver basis). 
Risk management
The primary purpose of the Risk and Compliance functions is to assist 
Henderson in achieving its strategic objectives by “doing the right business  
in the right way”. How has Henderson’s risk profile changed in the year?
Market and liquidity risks, cyber risks and the 
intensity of regulatory change were key themes 
in the year.
Chris Chaloner
Chief Risk Officer
Strategic report Strategic report
23 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Risk management framework
Risk management is a fundamental component of our global 
operating model and is deeply integrated in our day-to-day 
processes and controls. Although overall accountability for  
risk management lies with the Board, the principle of individual 
accountability and responsibility for risk awareness, monitoring 
and management is a key feature of our culture. All staff are 
assessed against their approach to, and demonstration of,  
risk management as part of the year end appraisal process. 
Henderson’s approach to risk management is documented in  
our risk appetite statement, which includes specific qualitative 
and quantitative statements, and measures around eight key 
themes considered essential to the successful delivery of  
the Group’s strategic goals:
• Client and fund investment focus
• Trust
• Group financial stability
• Group growth and performance
• Operational risk
• People risk
• Regulatory change
• Reputational risk.
The risk appetite statement provides direction as to the levels  
of risk which the business can take and is reviewed at least 
annually by the Board. The statement incorporates risk limits 
which, if reached, will prompt management to take action to 
reduce risk levels. These are supported by specific key risk 
indicators to ensure the Board is able to assess levels of  
risk across the business against the mandated appetite.
The Board and senior management take a forward looking  
view of risk to enable timely assessment and, where necessary, 
mitigation of new and emerging risks. The risk management 
process supports this approach through the early identification  
of emerging risks so that they can be evaluated alongside known 
and continuing risks. The principal risks which the Group faces  
as a result of its business model and strategy are described  
on pages 26 and 27 .
The risk management framework is documented in the Group’s 
risk management policy, a summary of which can be found on  
our website (www.henderson.com/IR).
Three lines of defence
Our framework utilises a three lines of defence approach  
to managing risk.
The first line comprises the Chief Executive and business 
management, who ensure that the Group is managed on  
a day-to-day basis in accordance with our risk appetite.
The second line comprises the Risk and Compliance  
functions which monitor the financial, investment, operational  
and regulatory risks in the business and the related controls in 
place to manage these risks. The Risk and Compliance teams 
report to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who is independent of 
management and reports directly to the chair of the Board Risk 
Committee (BRC). The CRO attends all Board, Audit Committee 
and BRC meetings and detailed Risk and Compliance reporting 
is provided to these meetings by the second line functions.  
The CRO is also a member of the ExCo to ensure that risk 
management remains central to all aspects of business  
strategy and management.
The third line comprises Internal Audit which provides 
independent assurance over the operational effectiveness  
of processes and controls across the business. Internal Audit 
reports directly to the chair of the Audit Committee.
Henderson Group plc Board
Chief Executive & management
 – Primary responsibility for strategy, performance 
and risk management lies with the Board, the 
Chief Executive and the heads of each division 
and operating business.
 – Business management is responsible for ensuring 
Henderson has in place effective internal controls.
Risk & Compliance
Board Risk Committee Audit Committee
 – Overall responsibility for risk management 
oversight lies with the Board Risk Committee.
 – The CRO leads the Risk and Compliance functions 
which provide day-to-day independent monitoring 
and assessment of the risks in the divisions and 
operating business.
Internal Audit
 – Independent assurance on the effectiveness of 
the risk management systems is provided by 
Internal Audit reporting to the Audit Committee.
 – Audit of business areas is based on an 
assessment of risk with higher risk activities 
audited more frequently.
Risk management continued
2
nd
 line of defence 1
st
 line of defence 3
rd
 line of defence
24 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Henderson’s Assurance function
The Assurance function comprises both second line of defence 
(Risk and Compliance) and third line of defence (Internal Audit) 
activities. The primary purpose of the Risk and Compliance 
functions is to assist Henderson in achieving its strategic 
objectives by “doing the right business in the right way”. 
Consequently, Henderson will successfully protect all its  
clients’ interests and its reputation as a trusted global asset 
manager. These goals underpin the work of all of Assurance, 
although each of the component parts of the function achieves 
them through different blends of educating, providing oversight 
and challenge, advising and supporting the business.
Viability statement
In accordance with the provisions of C2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects  
of the Group, taking into account the current position and the 
principal risks that could have an impact on the Group’s business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity (see pages 26 
and 27). The Board has determined the principal risks through  
a process of consideration and assessment of Henderson’s 
strategic objectives and current global business model.
The Directors have chosen to consider the prospects of  
the Group over a five year period, which is consistent with 
Henderson’s strategic planning process. 
As the Group is a regulated financial services business,  
the reports and procedures required by the Board to make  
its assessment are embedded within the Group’s governance 
processes, which include, but are not limited to, the following: 
• Budget and strategic planning results and assumptions 
reviewed by the Board containing profit, cash and capital 
forecasts over the next five years. This process also includes 
stress testing and a robust downside scenario. The scenarios 
are designed to be severe, yet plausible, and take into account 
the likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be 
taken to reduce the impact should such an adverse event occur
• Consideration by the BRC of significant risk events that are 
designed to explore the resilience of the Group as part of  
its reverse stress testing process
• Consideration by the BRC of the Group’s risk  
appetite statement
• Monitoring throughout the year by the BRC of the Group’s 
strategic risk metrics. 
The stress testing scenarios include a significant and  
protracted market downturn, poor investment performance  
and client withdrawals. 
The five year strategic planning period is considered an 
appropriate timescale over which to assess viability as this  
is the period assessed by the Board for its Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and is considered  
to be the length of time required to determine whether a new 
investment team or strategy will ultimately be successful from 
launch. The five year period provides less certainty of outcome 
than detailed one year budgets used to set internal targets, but 
provides a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions 
can be made. 
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period used for the assessment. In doing so, it is 
recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level  
of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, future 
outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Strategic report Strategic report
25 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic priorities and associated principal risks:
Deliver first-class investment performance and service to our clients Expand our global investment offering to meet  
the current and future needs of our clients
Investment 
performance
Market Liquidity Fund flows Key personnel
Description
• Risk that Henderson 
funds fail to achieve their 
performance hurdles  
or benchmarks, or 
performance is poor 
relative to that of peer 
funds, leading to client 
redemptions and 
reduction in AUM  
and revenues earned  
by the Group. 
• Poor fund performance 
will also result in lower 
performance fees and 
reduced revenue.
• Risk that market 
conditions lead to  
a reduction in the value  
of clients’ AUM and 
revenues earned by  
the Group.
• Risk that market 
conditions lead to  
a decline in the value  
of Group seed capital 
investments.
• Risk that underlying 
positions in funds 
managed by Henderson 
cannot be sold, liquidated 
or closed at a reasonable 
cost in an appropriate 
timeframe. As a result,  
a fund may incur losses 
and have a limited ability 
to meet its investor 
redemption obligations. 
Gating a fund would 
cause significant 
reputational damage.
• Risk of net redemptions 
by clients resulting in  
a decline in AUM and 
revenues earned by  
the Group.
• Risk of losing either a 
member of the ExCo or one 
of the Group’s key 
investment or distribution 
teams. Potential adverse 
effect on business growth 
and/or the retention of 
existing business.
Trends in 2015
• Continued strong fund 
performance, with 81%  
of funds (weighted by 
AUM) outperforming  
over three years.
• The decline in equity 
markets in mid-2015  
and subsequent volatile 
global market performance 
in the second half of the  
year impacted client  
AUM values.
• Reduced liquidity in global 
fixed income markets.
• Sudden and large price 
movements in certain 
asset classes/securities 
have become more 
frequent during the year.
• Overall, strong positive 
net inflows throughout 
2015.
• Staff turnover remained  
low throughout the year, 
although two members  
of the ExCo left the 
Company in the year.
• Inflows into strongly 
performing funds have led 
to increasing concentration 
risk in European Equities; 
however, the percentage  
of Group revenues 
managed by any individual 
remains diversified.
Mitigation
• Robust investment 
process including  
detailed research. 
• Clearly articulated 
investment philosophy 
including analysis of our 
funds by comparing  
their performance against 
appropriate benchmarks. 
• Broad range of asset 
classes and fund styles 
reduces the probability of 
all funds underperforming 
at the same time.
• Independent Investment 
Risk function provides 
monitoring and challenge 
to ensure that the level  
of risk taken for each 
portfolio is consistent  
with client expectations.
• Risk of a fall in the value of 
clients’ AUM is mitigated 
by having a broad range 
of clients by distribution 
channel, product, asset 
class and region. 
• A significant amount  
of our expense base  
is variable. 
• Limits on the aggregate 
amount of seed capital 
investment, diversification 
of the assets invested  
and appropriate hedging 
of the risks.
• Liquidity risks considered 
during implementation  
of new products and 
approval of new 
instrument types.
• Dilution levies and swing 
prices used to ensure that 
investors are treated fairly.
• Detailed oversight and 
challenge of fixed income 
and equity holdings by 
Investment Risk, including 
stress and scenario 
testing of portfolios.
• Close monitoring of  
global markets and 
liquidity events to ensure 
appropriate actions are 
taken as required.
• Diversity of sources of 
revenue by asset class, 
capability, fund style, 
strategy and geography.
• Diversity of investor  
base between Retail  
and Institutional and  
by geography.
• Strong investment 
performance across 
product ranges.
• Competitive remuneration 
structures designed to 
recognise and reward staff 
performance that is in line 
with our principles.
• Succession plans are in 
place throughout the 
organisation to ensure that 
there is cover for key roles.
• Regular staff surveys are 
undertaken to identify any 
issues which could impact 
staff retention.
• Comprehensive training is 
offered to staff to improve 
skills and engagement.
• Strategy of sustaining 
broad and diverse fund 
manager teams to avoid 
dependence on single 
managers or teams.
Priorities in 2016
• Continued focus on 
investment performance 
across a broader range  
of investment styles.
• Monitoring of market 
related trends and 
potential impacts.
• Maintaining our  
diverse revenue base  
and agile approach  
to cost management.
• Continue monitoring  
of external events to 
identity potential market 
impacts in relation to 
Henderson funds.
• Continue focus on 
liquidity risks by the 
Investment Risk team 
through engagement  
with portfolio managers 
and review and challenge 
of portfolio holdings.
• Frequent scenario testing 
to ensure portfolios 
continue to meet house 
liquidity requirements. 
• Continue to globalise our 
product range, launching 
successful products in 
new wrappers.
• Create products to meet 
client demand for global 
income, capital 
appreciation/preservation 
and other outcomes.
• Ensure that ongoing 
customer interest 
enhancements are 
thoroughly embedded.
• Targeted marketing 
initiatives to support 
client-focused themes.
• Continue the alignment  
of co-fund managers 
across relevant funds.
• Maintain high levels of  
staff engagement across 
the global firm.
Reputational risk: Risk that negative publicity regarding the Group will lead to client redemptions and a decline in AUM and revenue and/or 
to litigation. The risk of damage to the Group’s reputation is considered more likely to result from one of the other risks  
Risk management continued
26 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic priorities and associated principal risks: Strategy p.14 and 15
Diversify our business Operate efficiently
Acquisitions and 
divestments
Strategic Operational, IT and legal Regulatory change
• Risk that an acquisition is a 
strategic failure, delivers negative 
economics or adversely impacts 
other parts of the business.
• Risk of organisational stress  
or process failures through 
potential demands on staff and 
resources through the need to 
integrate acquired businesses or 
to reorganise processes to divest 
parts of the business.
• Risk that Henderson’s business 
strategy fails to deliver the 
required and expected outcomes 
for stakeholders. 
• Risk that technological innovation 
and/or new market entrants within 
the asset management industry 
reduces profitability and requires  
a fundamental change to 
Henderson’s business model.
• Risk of losses through inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people 
or systems or through external 
events. This includes the risk  
of loss arising from failing to 
manage our key outsourced 
service providers properly, failing to 
manage financial crime risks, failing 
to manage operational aspects of 
our global expansion, the risk 
arising from major disruption to  
our business, including from cyber 
crime, and the risk of losses from 
trade execution errors or breaches 
of investment mandates.
• Risk of losses from litigation.
• Risk that a change in laws and 
regulations, however driven, will 
materially affect the Group’s global 
business or markets in which  
it operates. This risk may affect  
the business either directly or 
indirectly by reducing investors’ 
appetite for our products, 
increasing capital requirements, 
restricting our ability to sell  
certain products or pursue 
specific investment strategies, 
reducing our profitability through 
fee restrictions, affecting our ability 
to retain key personnel and/or 
increasing the cost and complexity 
of the Group’s business.
Description
• Acquisition of Perennial Fixed 
Interest and Perennial Growth 
Management.
• Acquisition of the remaining equity 
of 90 West Asset Management  
not already owned by the Group.
• Disposal of our remaining equity 
interest in the TH Real Estate  
joint venture.
• Acquisition of Old Mutual  
property fund.
• Continued innovation within  
the asset management industry, 
with ongoing focus on reduced 
costs and debate as to the relative 
merits of passive, “smart beta” 
and active management strategies 
and business models.
• Emergence of low cost solution 
providers giving online 
discretionary investment 
management/robo-advice.
• Continued increase in the number 
and sophistication of acts of cyber 
crime against firms generally.
• Global expansion increases 
general operational risks through 
new staff, locations, system 
requirements and new/expanded 
third party relationships.
• Pace of regulatory change 
remained significant including  
new UK client money regulations, 
central counterparty clearing for 
OTC derivatives, Solvency II  
and European Banking Authority 
(EBA) Remuneration rules.
• Major regulatory change also 
underway with MiFID II, FCA 
Asset Management Market Study 
and FCA Senior Managers  
and Certification Regime.
Trends in 2015
• Acquisitions/divestments 
considered only where they  
fit with our strategic goals and 
meet our financial criteria such 
that we can realise value for our 
shareholders. The Board’s risk 
appetite statement includes 
quantitative and qualitative  
criteria that must be met by  
any acquisition/divestment.
• Thorough due diligence performed 
before any acquisition is made, 
including assessment of our  
ability to successfully integrate  
the acquired business.
• Specific governance and  
project management structures 
implemented for acquisitions/
disposals. 
• Integration risk, post-closing, is 
managed, monitored and reported.
• Concentration on delivery of 
Henderson’s strategy through 
provision of first-class investment 
performance and service for our 
clients as efficiently as possible.
• Monitoring of emerging 
developments in the asset 
management industry, which  
might pose a threat to our  
current business model.
• Maintaining a clear understanding 
of our clients’ needs through 
communication and interaction.
• Our control systems are designed 
to ensure operational and legal 
risks are mitigated to a level which 
is consistent with our risk appetite.
• Globally embedded three lines  
of defence model is key.
• Outsourced service providers  
are overseen by the relevant  
line function and the controls  
of key service providers are  
also reviewed by the Group’s 
Assurance function.
• We maintain and test service and 
business continuity plans which 
are designed to ensure that, in  
the event of business disruption, 
we can maintain our operations 
without material damage to  
the business.
• Continued active and constructive 
engagement with regulators 
through regular dialogue. 
• Regulatory developments are 
monitored by a dedicated team  
in Compliance, in liaison with 
external experts where required.
• Formalised cross-business  
project groups implement  
required changes to our  
business processes.
• Active involvement with and 
through relevant industry bodies.
Mitigation
• Disciplined use of mergers  
and acquisitions to supplement 
organic growth.
• Continue to embed our  
Australian business, through  
the integration of the Perennial 
Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and 90 West Asset  
Management teams.
• Concentration on delivery of 
Henderson’s strategy through 
provision of first-class investment 
performance and service for our 
clients as efficiently as possible.
• Closely monitor developments  
in the industry.
• Continue to engage and interact 
with clients to ensure that we  
fully understand their needs  
and priorities.
• Focus on improving operating 
margins after a period of targeted 
investment.
• Disciplined capital management to 
build an appropriate capital buffer.
• Continue to invest in infrastructure 
and in the provision of our common 
global operating model.
• Fully engage with the FCA Asset 
Management Market Study.
• Despite a delayed implementation 
date, MiFID II will require 
significant investment of time and 
resources throughout 2016/17 . 
• Review implications of a vote for 
the UK to leave the European 
Union.
Priorities in 2016
materialising rather than as a standalone risk. Reputational risk is, therefore, mitigated primarily by the controls in place around our principal risks,  
but is also supported by our client-centric culture, which focuses on openness, transparency and delivery for clients.
Strategic report Strategic report
27 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Expertise and awareness, to achieve 
successful active management.
EXPERTISE AND 
AWARENESS
28 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Our clients and their end customers 
Our resources, relationships and responsibilities
Asset management is essentially a people business.  
Our success is driven by our people and their commitment  
to our three guiding principles of collaboration, conviction and 
responsibility. We believe in bringing these values to everything 
we do as individuals and as a team.
Collaboration is working together and sharing  
knowledge so our clients benefit from the combined force  
of the whole company.
Conviction is our passion, belief and energy. We have no house 
style to constrain the expertise of our investment professionals. 
Responsibility is the foundation of best practice.  
We know that performance, service and trust all flow from  
taking personal and collective responsibility, always in the  
service of our clients’ needs. 
A keen sense of corporate responsibility is ingrained in the  
way we do business. The Core investment management 
capabilities section describes our attitude to responsible 
investing, including the momentum building in the Henderson 
Global Care Growth strategy. In Client relationships and brand, 
we describe our approach to client engagement. Our People 
section recognises the importance of making Henderson an  
attractive place to work, in social as well as financial terms.  
We summarise our approach to Corporate Responsibility  
at the end of this section.
For a deeper understanding of the value 
creating components of our business, 
read the following sections:
Resources, relationships and responsibilities
Our business model (see page 12) identifies three key sets of resources 
and relationships – our core investment management capabilities 
including risk management; client relationships and brand; and  
the talented people we employ throughout our business.
Here, we give further insight into how these 
resources and relationships generate value  
for our clients and shareholders.
Investment management capabilities
 Core investment management capabilities p.30
 Risk management p.23
Client relationships and brand
  Client relationships and brand p.38
People
 Our people: our greatest asset p.42
Corporate Responsibility
  Corporate Responsibility p.44
Our mission
Outcomes 
Strategic report Strategic report
29 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 2015 highlights 
• Performance – 81% of funds met or exceeded their 
benchmarks over three years
• European equities – investor appetite for Europe increased, 
with Henderson’s talented team a major beneficiary 
• Fixed income – in a challenging year for fixed income, the 
Retail team stayed true to their process and delivered standout 
relative returns 
• Demand for income – income-paying strategies continued  
to attract interest, with Henderson’s offerings across a range  
of asset classes benefiting 
• Outcome-oriented products – Henderson’s broad fixed income 
expertise was tailored to deliver diversified strategies for 
institutional clients
This time last year, we stated that the focus was on maintaining 
investment performance, strengthening the support framework  
for fund managers and continuing to increase the breadth and 
depth of Henderson’s investment capabilities. On all three 
measures, Henderson has made progress. 
The performance numbers speak for themselves and,  
while certain areas can still improve, are exceptional for  
a group of Henderson’s size. At the support level, we have  
made notable progress as we continue to strengthen our 
infrastructure in order to provide invaluable safeguards  
and guidance to our investment teams.
Breadth and depth
In terms of broadening Henderson’s capabilities, this too is an 
area in which progress has been made. If 2014 was a year of 
adding to and strengthening teams, 2015 was the year in which 
these teams began to bed down and build the processes and 
track records that give clients confidence in Henderson’s ability. 
Across the five pillars – European Equities, Global Equities, Fixed 
Income, Multi-Asset and Alternatives – Henderson has teams 
offering asset class-wide strategies alongside more focused 
offerings. Our expertise is in listed assets and we believe in 
genuine active management. In providing a range of long-only  
as well as long/short funds and mandates, Henderson’s 
managers run portfolios for investors of differing levels  
of sophistication across the world. 
The following pages go into more depth on developments within 
each pillar. With investment teams situated in Europe, the US, 
Asia and Australia, Henderson and our clients benefit from  
unique and varied viewpoints. We are mindful of the need to 
support these teams fully wherever they are situated and  
ensure their potential is realised. 
Balancing organic growth and acquisitions
Henderson’s growth plan is dependent on ensuring the Group 
offers a diverse range of capabilities, and is able to meet a variety 
of client needs throughout the cycle. The foundations for this 
platform have been established in recent years through organic 
growth of existing teams as well as tactical acquisitions. In 2015, 
many of the investment teams were further strengthened. These 
include the Global Property Equities team, which brought its US 
investment management function in house, and the Fixed Income 
team, with new hires to strengthen existing capabilities. 
On the acquisition side, Henderson completed the integration  
of Geneva Capital Management, a team of Milwaukee-based US 
equity specialists, which was acquired in 2014. It was particularly 
pleasing to see the newly branded Henderson Geneva Capital 
Management team executing a strong performance turnaround 
following the completion of the integration in mid-2015. 
Additionally, Henderson announced the acquisition of Australia-
based Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth 
Management, which completed in November 2015. These 
acquisitions leverage Henderson’s strong corporate heritage  
in Australia and broaden the scope of the global fixed income  
and equity teams, as well as Henderson’s distribution reach. 
Core investment management capabilities
Last year, we explained that our investment teams operate in an 
environment that balances independence of thought and process  
with strong governance and an impactful Risk team.
Our focus is on maintaining investment 
performance, strengthening the support  
framework for fund managers and continuing  
to increase the breadth and depth of Henderson’s 
investment capabilities. 
30 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Established and developing teams
2015 proved to be a strong year for some of the more 
established teams. The European Equities team, led by John 
Bennett, saw strong demand as Europe returned to favour;  
Alex Crooke and the Global Equity Income team attracted inflows 
as investors searched for yield; John Pattullo and Jenna Barnard 
delivered strong fixed income performance; and Stephen Peak’s 
International and European equity strategies also had a strong 
year. In the Institutional space, Henderson’s ability to tailor 
multi-sector fixed income strategies to meet the growing needs  
of clients for outcome-oriented solutions also proved popular.
Looking to the future, Henderson has teams at an earlier stage  
in their development. Notable among these are the Global 
Emerging Markets team, led by Glen Finegan; the US-based 
Credit team, under Kevin Loome; and the Emerging Markets 
Credit team, led by Steve Drew. These teams have all made 
strong starts. The Global Equity Income OEIC and SICAV 
vehicles reached their three and one year anniversaries 
respectively, while the European High Yield strategy also reached 
its three year mark. Having launched more than 40 funds since 
2012, many more are fast approaching meaningful milestones. 
Future focus: opportunities and challenges 
Financial markets will pose challenges in the coming year. 
Henderson has put in place talented teams with the freedom  
to position portfolios in the best interests of our clients. We 
believe in active management and our investment teams are 
remunerated based on the value they deliver to clients above  
and beyond broader market returns. While markets will at times 
be challenging, this also presents opportunities, particularly  
for investors with a longer-term time horizon. It also creates 
conditions that should suit teams skilled in fundamental  
analysis and security selection. 
Regulatory changes continue to shape the industry. These  
have, and will result in, new requirements at a control level  
but may also change the structure of markets, impacting the  
way that Henderson manages money for clients. Staying at the 
forefront of this reform agenda is therefore paramount in 2016  
as we seek to build ever stronger relationships with clients and 
shape new products that best meet their needs in the changing 
investment landscape.
Investment management capabilities
Investment performance
Core capability AUM 31 Dec 2015 (£bn) 1 year
1
 3 years
1
European Equities 20.4 80% 92%
Global Equities 28.2 77% 81%
Global Fixed Income 24.8 63% 77%
Multi-Asset 4.9 83% 98%
Alternatives 13.7 98% 66%
Total 92.0 78% 81%
Notes:
1. Percentage of funds, asset-weighted, that are outperforming based on the relevant metric: peer percentile ranking for Retail, positive for absolute return, positive versus 
benchmark for Institutional.
• The purpose of including awards on the following pages is non-promotional. The funds presented might not be available for distribution in the reader’s jurisdiction.
Retail 89%
Retail 69%
Retail 31%
Retail 38%
Retail 71%
Alternatives £13.7bn
Global Fixed Income £24.8bn
European Equities £20.4bn
Global Equities £28.2bn
Multi-Asset £4.9bn
Institutional 11%
Institutional 31%
Institutional 69%
Institutional 62%
Total AUM
£92.0bn
Institutional 29%
Strategic report Strategic report
31 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 What differentiates the European 
Equities team? 
Breadth and experience
Our team comprises 19 highly experienced 
specialists with an average of 20 years’ 
experience. The approach is based on team 
collaboration, sharing research, discussing 
potential investment ideas and participation  
in company meetings. There is no team view  
on macro events or individual stocks, but we take 
a collaborative approach to research and analysis. 
Each manager is free to implement their views on 
the economy, industries or individual companies 
as they see fit. This environment of debate keeps 
us alert to change and opportunity.
Products that meet different  
investors’ needs
We have continued to build on complementary 
strategies that span the investment spectrum.  
The team manages a broad range of dedicated 
products to suit various investor profiles across 
market capitalisation (small, medium or large), 
geographic exposure (eurozone, continental  
or Pan European), growth or value bias,  
long-only and long/short and, most recently, 
income generation.
What were the highlights of 2015?
Strong performance and client demand 
Momentum built steadily in 2015, with continued 
client demand reflecting investor appetite for 
European companies and recognition of our 
credentials across European long-only and 
absolute return strategies. Despite the rise in 
demand for exchange traded funds, investors in 
our asset class continue to favour high-conviction 
vehicles. Strong net inflows included more than 
£1.6bn into the Henderson Gartmore Continental 
European Fund and nearly £0.7bn into the 
Henderson Horizon Pan European Equity Fund.
Client communication
There was too much focus on macro and 
geopolitical noise in 2015. Structurally, the same 
problems that plagued Europe at the start of 2015 
– high public debt; a lack of inflationary pressures; 
and uncertain growth – are the same problems 
that persist now. Throughout the year, we have 
tried to remain measured in what we say to  
clients, ensuring they understand our strategies 
and take confidence from our longer-term mind set.
 
Awards
Good performance for clients was reflected  
in industry recognition: 
Henderson European Focus Fund:
Investment Week 2015 Fund Manager  
of the Y ear Awards – Best in class
Henderson Horizon Euroland Fund: 
Lipper Fund Awards – Best Eurozone Equity  
(3 years and 5 years) 
Fund Selector Asia 2015 – European Equity  
‘Gold Award’
Henderson Gartmore Continental European 
Fund:
Lipper Fund Awards – Best fund over 3 years 
– Equity Europe ex UK sector.
What developments are you most 
excited about for 2016?
Reaping dividends
In November 2015, we launched the Henderson 
Horizon Pan European Dividend Income Fund, 
designed to take advantage of the income 
opportunity in European equities. The fund 
leverages the proven strategy of the Henderson 
Horizon Euroland Fund, with an additional filter  
to reject stocks that do not produce an attractive 
income stream.
Bringing through young talent 
Continuity comes from the sustainable 
development of young talent within the team.  
This year saw Rory Stokes, who first joined  
the team as an analyst in 2013, step up to  
assist Ollie Beckett in managing the team’s  
Pan European smaller companies strategy.  
Other analysts within the team continue  
to develop well, giving us confidence that  
while 2015 was a good year, we are also  
laying solid foundations for the future. 
Core investment management capabilities continued
European Equities
European Equities AUM
£
20.4bn
Loose central bank policy amidst deflationary forces means active management 
remains as important as ever for European equity investors, especially this late  
in the economic cycle. ”
John Bennett
Head of European Equities
32 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Global Equities
What are the key elements of the 
Henderson Global Equities capability?
Our Global Equities capability has a wide  
range of strategies targeting multiple investment 
channels. It is made up of a series of expert  
teams specialising in different sectors, regions 
and styles. These include teams that invest 
worldwide and are building high-capacity global 
products covering the emerging markets, equity 
income, growth, natural resources, technology 
and property equities, as well as regional and 
country-focused teams. 
We have no overarching house style, with each 
team responsible for their investment process, 
stock selection and portfolio construction,  
which is subject to challenge and debate. 
Formal and informal meetings across  
teams provide a platform for sharing research, 
investment ideas and themes. This ensures that 
our fund managers are free to focus on what they 
do best – generating value for clients – which has 
enabled Henderson to attract and retain some  
of the industry’s most talented managers.
What have been the highlights  
in 2015? 
While it has been a challenging investment 
environment, performance generally has been 
strong across the teams. The growth and 
development of our Global Equities capability, 
both organically and via small acquisitions,  
has also been extremely rewarding to see. 
Our established mutual fund range in the  
US continued to attract investors, with the 
International Opportunities Fund recording  
a net inflow of US$1bn in 2015, while Global 
Equity Income had net inflows of US$712m. 
Henderson Geneva Capital Management, now 
fully integrated into the Group, saw a strong 
turnaround in performance meaning outflows 
were primarily weighted to the first half of the year. 
Existing investment teams were also  
strengthened through new hires, while other 
teams were restructured. These include the 
Edinburgh-based Global Emerging Markets  
team with Glen Finegan’s recruitment in January; 
additional resource for Matthew Beesley’s Global 
Equities team; taking full ownership of 90 West 
– previously Henderson owned 41% – and its 
Global Natural Resources team; the hire in 
October of a US Property Equities team to bring 
management of US property equities in house 
and seek to address underperformance; and the 
addition of an Australian equities team as part  
of the Perennial acquisition, in November. We are 
also seeing a number of highly-talented younger 
fund managers who have progressed through our 
graduate schemes, such as Laura Foll and James 
Ross, develop and add significant value. 
It has been pleasing to see our sustainable  
and responsible investment (SRI) funds build 
momentum, with net inflows of £84m. Investor 
appetite for this form of investing is growing  
in response to the costs of corporate scandals 
and poor corporate governance, while greater 
environmental and social awareness generally  
is translating into a desire for investments to 
embrace these social values. Henderson’s 
growing reputation in SRI was reflected in the 
Henderson Global Care Growth Fund winning 
‘Best Ethical Investment Fund’ at the Investment 
Week Sustainable Investment Awards 2015. 
What are you most excited about 
seeing develop in 2016 and beyond?
I am excited to see our younger products within 
Global Equities mature into proven investment 
strategies. We are also continuing to build the 
breadth of our high-capacity global products, 
which provide significant synergies to our 
business because we are able to sell a single 
strategy to investors worldwide. We are also 
looking forward to further developing our product 
range by tailoring strategies to shifting client 
needs. This will include meeting the growing 
demand for income from an ageing population 
and exploring the appetite for different forms  
of absolute return in what is likely to remain  
an uncertain market. 
Global Equities AUM
Global Equity Income 
– growing demand
Our 12-strong Global 
Equity Income team, led  
by Alex Crooke, continues 
to build on its impressive 
income heritage and has 
seen increased demand 
from investors as the search 
for yield continues. In 2015, 
our Global Equity Income 
strategy continued to  
attract investors in the US; 
celebrated its three year 
anniversary in the UK; 
became more established  
in Asia and Europe; and 
was launched in Australia. 
We also implemented a 
successful fundraising for  
a closed-ended equity 
income vehicle in the US. 
Meanwhile, the Henderson 
Global Dividend Index, 
which is a long-term study 
into global dividend trends, 
has proved to be a 
well-read and insightful 
means of furthering the 
debate around equity 
income investing. 
Our diverse range of strategies means that we are able to offer investment products 
that not only serve local markets but have global appeal. ”
Graham Kitchen
Head of Equities
£
28.2bn
Strategic report Strategic report
33 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 £
24.8bn
Pension partnership 
Pension Insurance 
Corporation, a specialist 
insurer of defined benefit 
pension funds, appointed 
Henderson as its sole 
external sterling corporate 
bond manager as part of its 
“buy-to-hold” strategy under 
Solvency II regulations, 
citing Henderson’s strong 
credit skills and client 
service for its decision.  
This doubles the mandate 
with Henderson to £3.2bn.
2015 was a challenging year for fixed income 
markets, including concerns about Greece,  
a slowdown in emerging markets, vacillation 
around interest rate rises by the US Federal 
Reserve and sharp movements in bond yields and 
credit spreads. Despite this background, 77% of 
Henderson’s fixed income funds met or exceeded 
their benchmark over a three year period and the 
capability succeeded in delivering net inflows  
of £1.6bn, with AUM closing at £24.8bn. 
What differentiates the Henderson 
Global Fixed Income offering?
I think Henderson’s emphasis on solutions  
and outcome-based capabilities is part of our 
appeal. Concerns about potentially higher interest 
rates mean investors want managers with the 
capability to manage fixed income in a variety of 
environments. For example, within our Institutional 
business we saw clients leave some of the more 
traditional portfolios and rotate into multi-asset 
credit, diversified credit and absolute return bond 
portfolios. Having strategically built up expertise  
in these areas, we have a platform that can meet 
client needs. 
Is client interaction a key part  
of fixed income?
I would argue that fixed income is one of the more 
demanding asset classes because it is highly 
sensitive to macroeconomic factors and clients 
tend to have quite specific requirements. We  
seek to accommodate this by working with them 
to structure portfolios that meet their needs. This 
can translate into new strategies, as demonstrated 
by the launch of the £250m Diversified Credit 
Fund, a global credit strategy that we developed 
alongside a client’s requirements. 
What have been the highlights  
of 2015?
It has been satisfying putting in place vehicles that 
clients find attractive in a rising rate environment, 
such as the Diversified Credit Fund and the Short 
Duration Bond Fund. Even more encouraging is 
seeing the capabilities we have invested in 
performing so well. All of our high yield bond 
funds are outperforming their benchmark since 
inception. The Multi-Asset Credit strategy 
celebrated its three year anniversary in July  
ahead of its performance target, with AUM 
growing to over £700m, echoing the Euro 
Corporate Bond Fund, which has grown to 
£2.4bn in size from its launch just six years ago. 
Particularly impressive has been the performance 
of the Emerging Market Corporate Bond strategy. 
One year on from its November 2014 launch, it 
not only outperformed its benchmark but defied 
the downturn in emerging market debt to deliver  
a solid positive return. To my mind, this epitomises 
what we, as active managers, stand for. 
Have there been any 
disappointments?
Our Rates team had been expecting the first US 
rate rise to occur in September 2015 rather than 
December and this eroded performance in some 
portfolios. To be fair, there was a degree of 
inconsistency in Federal Reserve announcements, 
which made interpreting their moves more 
challenging. The Credit Alpha Fund suffered 
redemptions and we saw money rotate away from 
more traditional portfolios. However, the breadth 
of our range meant we were able to capture much 
of this rotation. 
What are you most excited about 
seeing develop in 2016 and beyond?
I am excited about the Retail Fixed Income 
franchise, led by John Pattullo and Jenna Barnard. 
The US-domiciled Strategic Income Fund that 
they manage gained a 5-star Morningstar rating 
and trebled in size over the course of 2015  
to US$300m. Their established offering in the  
UK also goes from strength to strength: the 
Preference & Bond Fund gained a Lipper Fund 3 
year award and the Strategic Bond Fund saw net 
inflows of more than £230m, to reach £1.4bn  
in AUM. 
The acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest in 
Australia also provides us with a fixed income 
presence in the Pan-Asian region, complementing 
the development of our presence in the US over 
the last few years. With the existing fixed income 
hub based in London, we now have local expertise 
across all three key time zones. 
Global Fixed Income
Global Fixed Income 
AUM
There is likely to be more volatility in fixed income in 2016 but this will create 
opportunities and as an active manager you have to look at that with enthusiasm. ” 
Phil Apel
Head of Fixed Income
Core investment management capabilities continued
34 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Multi-Asset AUM
£
4.9bn
Multi-Asset
What differentiates the Henderson 
Multi-Asset team?
Our investment team has one of the broadest 
remits at Henderson because virtually all asset 
classes are open to us for investment globally,  
and we can select from any number of instruments 
and funds to help achieve our objectives. All 
inputs to our portfolios must be carefully judged, 
such that asset allocation decisions, instrument 
and fund selection, sector themes, and investment 
style work in harmony. Understanding the 
interaction between these components and their 
interplay with macroeconomic forces comes with 
in-depth knowledge and experience. We think we 
have one of the best teams in the industry in terms 
of specialist expertise, complementary skill sets, 
and home-grown talent.
Whichever fund an investor chooses from our 
Multi-Asset range, our starting point is always  
the same: a clear focus on capital protection,  
with multi-layered risk control. We firmly believe  
in active management’s ability to add to returns 
and when we take a view on a particular area  
of the market, we ensure that it is reflected  
across the full range of our portfolios through  
the most appropriate means. Our belief in active 
management also implies that we are prepared  
to use externally managed funds when and  
where appropriate. 
What have been the highlights  
of 2015?
Among this year’s highlights, Henderson’s 
Multi-Asset strategy celebrated its 10 year 
milestone. In our industry, long-term tenure is 
relatively rare: we are proud of our decade-long 
track record, not just in terms of the levels of 
returns, but our consistency. The last 12 months 
have seen a marked variation in market levels  
and the spread of investment instruments’ 
performance. We take considerable comfort  
from the fact we were well positioned to take 
advantage of these differences. We are especially 
pleased with our three year numbers, which 
compete with the best of our peers. 
Net flows across the range were down on 
previous years. In part, this was to be expected 
given the absence of the Cirilium joint venture, 
which was sold at the end of 2014, together with 
the decision by the Optimum authorised corporate 
director to terminate the Optimum range  
of risk-targeted portfolios. The termination is 
scheduled for mid-2016 and was communicated 
to clients in mid-2015 to allow time for them  
to make alternative arrangements.
As the use and prominence of alternatives have 
risen over the last 10 years, building the team’s 
capability in this area has been crucial. This year, 
we completed the implementation of our plan  
to strengthen and consolidate our Multi-Asset 
Alternatives strategy. We gained shareholder 
approval to rename the Henderson Value Trust  
to the Henderson Alternative Strategies Trust,  
to better reflect the changes to the company 
implemented since taking over the mandate from 
SVM in April 2013. In the Institutional space, we 
are also now able to offer our clients a compelling 
open-ended strategy – investing in closed-ended 
investment trusts and investment companies –  
via the Henderson Diversified Alternatives Fund. 
What are you most excited about 
seeing develop in 2016 and beyond?
In Retail, we anticipate that demand for income 
funds will only continue given a backdrop of ‘lower 
for longer’ interest rates. The recent changes in 
UK pension regulations and the move away from 
mandatory annuities have opened up many more 
choices for those approaching retirement and we 
have been mindful to respond to their needs. 
Understanding investors’ attitude to risk, their 
capacity for loss and assessing the suitability of 
products have also become increasingly important 
since the financial crisis and following the UK’s 
Retail Distribution Review. 
With these things in mind, we were one of the  
first in the market to launch lower cost, risk-
targeted, multi-asset funds with a competitive 
income bias, as part of our ‘Core’ range for the  
UK marketplace. These recognise the greater 
appreciation today for something that aims to 
deliver income while also respecting investors’ 
need for their capital to be managed effectively. 
We have thus far protected our clients from the 
extremes of volatility, and feel confident about 
rising to the challenges presented by diverging 
central bank policies as an unprecedented  
era for financial history nears its denouement.
There is a greater appreciation today for something that aims to deliver income  
while also respecting investors’ need for their capital to be managed effectively. ”
Bill McQuaker
Co-Head of Multi-Asset
Strategic report Strategic report
35 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Alternatives AUM
£
13.7bn
Interest in Alternatives continues to grow  
as investors seek to add diversification to 
traditional long equity and bond portfolios. 
Henderson manages a number of alternative 
strategies, including equity long/short, commercial 
property, absolute return credit, commodities and 
liquidity risk premium, and it is an area we have 
developed in recent years. In fact, our breadth  
of offering was seen as a key consideration in  
the judging for the 2015 Australian Hedge Fund 
Awards, in which Henderson won ‘Best offshore 
manager operating in Australia’. 
Absolute return equity 
Henderson has a strong heritage in absolute 
return strategies, bolstered by the Gartmore 
acquisition in 2011, when several managers with 
established long/short expertise became part of 
Henderson. During the course of 2015, the UK 
Absolute Return strategy proved particularly 
popular with investors. The strategy seeks to 
deliver positive returns in all market conditions. 
Assets grew by £2bn to £3.8bn in response  
to investor uncertainty about the prospects for 
equities, a reaction to the low returns on cash  
and bonds, and a desire to diversify portfolios. 
High levels of stock price dispersion presented 
the managers, Ben Wallace and Luke Newman, 
with opportunities to add value through the use of 
both long and short positions (positions that profit 
if securities fall in price). The approach showed its 
worth, delivering steady and positive returns 
against a backdrop of volatile and falling markets. 
This consistency in performance contributed to 
the UK-registered Henderson UK Absolute Return 
Fund winning ‘Best Absolute Return Fund’ at 
Investment Week’s 2015 Fund Manager  
of the Y ear Awards in London. 
UK commercial property
The HUKPOEIC was the best-selling property 
fund in the UK in 2015 as investor flows into  
the UK commercial property sector remained 
robust, driven by demand for income-yielding 
assets. Organic growth, combined with the 
successful merger of the Old Mutual property  
fund into HUKPOEIC in the first quarter, led to 
the fund’s AUM rising from £2.6bn to more than 
£4bn by the end of 2015.
Henderson’s direct property division transferred  
to TH Real Estate in April 2014 as part of the joint 
venture between Henderson and TIAA-CREF. In 
April 2015, Henderson announced the sale of its 
40% stake in TH Real Estate to TIAA-CREF. The 
Property team, which manages the HUKPOEIC 
through a sub-advisory agreement, made several 
additional hires and remains supported by TH 
Real Estate’s extensive property investment 
business, situated in the same London offices as 
Henderson. The HUKPOEIC remains an integral 
part of Henderson’s fund range and continues  
to be marketed and distributed by Henderson. 
Commodities
Sharp falls in commodity prices in 2015 and 
distress among companies within the sector  
might not seem like an auspicious backdrop  
for commodity investment. However, our 
investment managers in Agriculture managed  
not only to protect clients’ capital but to generate 
positive returns in 2015 as a result of effective risk 
management and the team utilising the full range 
of exposures to position their portfolios short in  
a falling market. AUM in the Agriculture funds  
rose as a result of performance gains and net 
inflows from investors. The team expanded with 
the recruitment of a dedicated sugar analyst. 
In Commodities (enhanced strategies), the  
team also delivered by producing incremental 
outperformance to a benchmark that was 
substantially down. Clients demonstrated their 
faith in the team by rebalancing into this strategy, 
with substantial inflows that offset the market-
driven fall. The team also developed a new 
quantitative long/short futures strategy and 
positive early results mean this capability has 
potential to emerge as a new standalone product. 
Taken together, assets in the Agriculture and 
Commodities business closed 2015 at US$1.1bn, 
a rise of 13% on a year earlier.
Alternatives
With investors generally cautious on market direction, absolute return investing has 
become increasingly broad in its appeal, due to its ability to profit in both rising and 
falling markets and its focus on risk control. ”
Luke Newman
Investment Manager
Core investment management capabilities continued
36 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Local knowledge and teamwork,  
to deliver for our clients, worldwide.
LOCAL KNOWLEDGE 
AND TEAMWORK
Strategic report Strategic report
37 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Client relationships and brand
The highlights of the year for me were based around two key 
areas. First, our ability to meet or exceed our clients’ expectations, 
and second, developments at a corporate level that allowed us  
to reach more clients on a global scale. 
Meeting client expectations
Investment performance is central to meeting client expectations 
but increasingly the service that groups provide alongside this  
is a key competitive differentiator. At Henderson, this means 
providing ongoing support to clients in terms of updates on  
the funds and mandates in which they invest. It also involves 
maintaining a dialogue to properly understand our clients’  
needs and offering product solutions and education at the 
appropriate levels.
As I noted last year, our target market is increasingly 
sophisticated in its approach to fund selection. To meet  
the needs of selectors, the emphasis therefore needs to be  
on providing transparency of approach, information-rich updates 
and access to genuine investment insight from fund managers. 
This approach is encapsulated in our Knowledge. Shared brand 
proposition. The fair treatment of customers is embedded in  
our business model and our ongoing engagement programme 
helps us understand how these needs are evolving and how  
we can communicate in the most appropriate ways. In 2015,  
the means of communication turned increasingly to digital 
channels, allowing us to tailor updates to investor needs and 
enable our managers’ thoughts to reach clients in the most 
efficient and timely manner possible.
Phil Wagstaff
Global Head of Distribution
For us, the focus is on excellence in client 
service and the establishment of long-standing 
relationships built upon trust.
Distribution has a pivotal role to play in delivering on the Henderson mission.  
Last year, we outlined the importance of putting our clients’ needs at the heart  
of everything we do. In 2015, we made progress against this goal.
Traditional marketing is increasingly 
being replaced by thought leadership. 
People buy people. The market 
doesn’t want product push – it wants 
genuine insight from investment 
experts at the top of their game. 
Knowledge. Shared speaks to  
this need. ” 
Gurjit Dehl
Senior Vice President, Redington Investment Consultants 
38 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Broadening our global reach 
The second highlight for me has been the significant progress  
in the broadening of Henderson’s global reach. This has included 
establishing new distribution platforms in the US, Latin America 
and Australia, and further building upon relationships in the UK, 
Continental Europe and Asia.
In the US, where we have an established and successful Retail 
presence, 2015 was notable for the build out of our Institutional 
capability. We manage products naturally suited to this 
marketplace, and are now beginning to create the distribution 
platform that will provide broader access. Milwaukee-based 
Henderson Geneva Capital Management, which we acquired  
in 2014, has been managing institutional US equity mandates  
for more than 20 years and provides additional distribution 
opportunities in this space. We also now have a team dedicated 
to the US offshore market where we see strong potential. With  
a number of products in our US mutual fund range approaching 
meaningful track record milestones and achieving Morningstar 
ratings, we will further diversify our offering across the Retail  
and Institutional space.
2015 also saw notable success in expanding our reach within 
Latin America. Here, we continue to build strong relationships 
with local pension funds and fund selectors, particularly in  
Chile, Peru, Colombia and Mexico. Key investment strategies  
in this region have been those from our European Equities  
and Absolute Return teams. We also further enlarged our 
footprint in Australia with additions to the distribution team  
and the acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial 
Growth Management. These acquisitions not only strengthen  
the investment management function by bringing domestic  
expertise to complement our global offerings, but also  
enhance our distribution reach. 
In our more established markets of the UK, Continental Europe 
and Asia, we also made progress. Of note was our push into  
the Italian retail market to complement our presence with fund 
selectors; significant inflows from Iberia; and the strengthening  
of established relationships with distributors and fund selectors  
in the UK, Switzerland and Germany. In the UK, we continued  
to run a number of high-profile roadshows and events to support 
our advisory clients, with notable interest around UK commercial 
property, our Retail Fixed Income team, and our UK Absolute 
Return Fund. On the Institutional side, we saw strong interest in 
our multi-sector fixed income capabilities and tailored strategies 
to meet the evolving needs of a number of large pension fund 
clients. Our closed-ended investment trust business in the UK 
also had a strong 2015, taking two prestigious ‘Investment  
Trust Group of the Y ear’ awards and numerous accolades  
at an individual product level.
I take pride in the quality of our Distribution team globally and  
it is on our ability to meet or exceed client expectations and the 
relationships we build that I judge our success. It was therefore 
pleasing in 2015 to see our focus externally recognised with 
Investment Week naming Henderson its ‘Global Group of the 
Y ear’, while at the Australia Hedge Fund Awards we were named 
‘Best offshore manager operating in Australia’. These third party 
endorsements are supported by the anecdotal feedback we 
receive from individual clients and we will strive to continue  
to evolve the service we provide.
What have been the key changes in Distribution 
through 2015? 
One of the main changes has been the introduction of new 
regulations. These changes impact the investment management 
and advice framework globally and have led many of our clients  
to completely reshape their business models. At a distribution 
level, we need to move quickly and adapt to meet the shifting 
needs of our clients – this means staying at the forefront of new 
regulations and working in partnerships to understand how new 
advice requirements will be interpreted and implemented. In this 
area, we see ourselves as a strategic partner rather than simply  
a product provider, and have taken part in numerous discussions 
both with client groups and industry peers to prepare for the  
road ahead.
Many of our global distribution partners are tightening their focus 
on the range of products they offer investors and adopting a best 
of breed approach. This means working with a smaller number of 
asset management groups and selecting only the best and most 
scalable products to recommend. This move towards a ‘winner 
takes most’ environment emphasises the need to establish and 
maintain strong relationships and high levels of client service.  
The groups with which we have these relationships tell us the  
key differentiators for them include our strength of performance, 
genuine active management approach, brand proposition and 
client-centric ethos. It is these strong foundations that we hope 
will allow us to evolve and adapt as regulations continue to 
reshape the distribution landscape.
How aligned is Henderson’s distribution model 
with client needs?
The lines between the needs of different client types are 
becoming increasingly blurred. No longer is there a clear divide 
between how funds are selected in the Retail and Institutional 
space and nor are there clear differences any more between 
distribution models in different countries. Clients are becoming 
ever more sophisticated in their thinking and are adopting best 
practice in fund selection regardless of location.
‘Institutionalisation’ and globalisation
This move up the sophistication spectrum, or ‘institutionalisation’ 
of the buying process, suits Henderson’s approach. Our 
investment teams follow clearly defined processes, their 
investment decisions are subject to careful monitoring and 
checks by our independent Risk team, and we strive for high 
levels of transparency and reporting – all factors expected  
by institutional-level clients.
The globalisation process can also be used to our advantage. 
Global distributors continue to broaden their reach and are 
introducing similar buying processes and investment patterns  
the world over. This means the number of key decision-makers 
globally is reducing and their influence increasing. Henderson 
has the advantage of having a product suite with global products 
that are reaching maturity and appropriate for this wider market. 
Our relationships with representatives of many of the global 
distributors within our established European markets also  
stand us in good stead to build upon these on a global basis.
Strategic report Strategic report
39 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Client relationships and brand continued
Tailored approach
Of course, we recognise that differences remain around the 
needs of clients. We therefore split our global distribution focus 
broadly by Institutional and Retail, with the latter made up of 
advisory and fund selector clients. In certain markets, such as  
the UK, we service end investors but predominantly we seek to 
work with professional investors. This client-type focus resulted  
in our marketing function in Europe being restructured in 2015  
to operate on a Pan European basis. While groups traditionally 
split the function based on a UK and Europe ex-UK focus, our 
restructure acknowledges that the needs of fund selectors  
and advisers have a high degree of commonality regardless  
of location.
While we seek to leverage our global model where possible,  
we also recognise the importance of tailoring the service we  
offer to the needs of clients in different regions. For this reason, 
we maintain a local presence in many of the markets in which  
we operate and provide material that takes into account local 
customs, preferences and language needs. While we believe  
the impact of investment trends and market drivers have 
implications across all markets and our manager insight  
should be shared as widely as possible, we seek to deliver  
this content in the most appropriate format.
How does Distribution ensure the products 
offered are well suited to Henderson’s clients?
Henderson’s Global Product team sits within Distribution.  
This team maintains oversight of the broad range of products  
we offer, including locally domiciled pooled funds in the US,  
the UK, Luxembourg, Japan, Singapore and Australia, hedge 
funds, managed accounts, segregated mandates and closed-
ended vehicles. 
The team provides governance for all funds and strategies,  
and gauges the suitability of new offerings as well as ensuring 
that existing products remain suited to the clients to which  
they are marketed. During the past year, the focus has been  
on ensuring recently launched strategies have developed  
as expected. It has also been on addressing any areas of 
underperformance. In 2015, in line with Henderson’s Global 
Product strategy, we saw Glen Finegan’s arrival to rebuild our 
Global Emerging Markets team, made changes to our Japanese 
Equity and China teams, further strengthened our Emerging 
Market Credit team, oversaw Henderson Geneva Capital 
Management taking over management of US equity strategies 
and launched a new Pan European Dividend fund. The changes 
made to existing funds and the early signs from recently launched 
products are encouraging and will be strategically important to  
us in the medium and longer term.
At Henderson, we are fortunate in having a broad range of 
products with widespread strength in performance. However, 
in order to be successful, we have to select those products  
for promotion that we think are most suitable for clients at the 
relevant point in the economic cycle. To this end, we operate  
a global Product Prioritisation group that classifies all funds 
according to their relevance to clients, suitability to future market 
conditions and commercial appeal. The Product Prioritisation 
group reviews market intelligence and trends, listens to our 
investment experts and takes input on client needs through  
our global sales heads. The resulting prioritisation of products 
helps set the focus of our sales teams and provides a framework 
for client communications and events. We believe that in a 
‘winner takes most’ environment, we need to coordinate our 
distribution approach globally and focus on the products  
with the strongest and longest lasting appeal.
Making brand a benefit not a cost
Last year’s annual report explained our decision to rebrand  
and the benefits we were hoping to gain by doing so. Not only 
did we update our visual identity, we also sought to position 
Henderson as a modern, high-quality, global asset manager.  
In 2014, Andrew Formica spoke about Henderson’s strategy  
of growth and globalisation and to support this we launched  
the brand proposition Knowledge. Shared. Throughout 2015,  
we focused on delivering this to our clients and distribution 
partners around the world as we seek to build and strengthen 
trusted relationships.
Our main focus has been to leverage Henderson’s deep pool  
of intellectual capital to deliver investment thought leadership  
and transparency to our clients in the most efficient way possible.  
This is embodied in the investment insight we seek to deliver. 
Creating the content is one thing, delivering it to clients in the 
format that best suits their needs is another. For us, digital media 
present tremendous opportunities to gain competitive advantage 
by giving our clients what they want, when they want it. 
What our clients say to us is as  
important as what we say to them. ”
Rob Page
Global Head of Marketing
Knowledge. Shared in practice
Knowledge. Shared was designed to be a client-led 
brand proposition providing investment insight, thought 
leadership and transparency to our clients wherever 
they may be. We have continued to capitalise on 
Henderson’s intellectual capital by delivering quality 
content in a timely and highly cost efficient way through 
the use of digital media. 
During the Greek crisis, for example, thought leadership 
from Henderson was the leading voice, driving 
significant traffic to our website. It underlined that 
clients do value and reward quality content, as 
Henderson was the top four of 1,180,000 search 
results on Google for Greece fund manager reaction.
40 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 We deal with an ever growing quantity of information and this makes 
timely and accurate reporting from clients like Henderson increasingly 
important. This is addressed by the Knowledge. Shared approach. ”
Helen Marino
Fund Selector – European Equities and Fund Manager – Multi-Manager, Caixabank Asset Management
Our winner in this category 
developed a campaign  
based on education and  
the sharing of knowledge. 
The judges were extremely 
taken by the open approach, 
the quality of materials  
off and on line, and the  
core idea which spoke of 
transparency and a genuine 
collegiate approach – helping 
to position the brand clearly 
without relying on transient 
performance claims. ”
Lawrence Gosling
Incisive Media
In my 30 years in the business, I have never seen 
a company that produces high quality marketing 
materials as consistently as Henderson. ”
Lawrence Andrews 
Senior Vice President, RBC Wealth Management
In 2015, we further developed our award-winning 
digital platform, enabling us to share our 
knowledge with our clients wherever they may be.
A brand built with our clients,  
for our clients
Our approach to communicating with clients  
is simple; we listen to our clients and endeavour 
to deliver what they want, when they want it. This 
process of continuous improvement has focused 
our thinking and has been recognised across  
the board through a myriad of awards and, more 
importantly, exceptionally strong client feedback.
We were delighted to see Knowledge. Shared 
recognised through several high-profile awards  
in 2015. Of particular significance was the award 
for ‘Best Brand and Proposition Development’ 
from Incisive Media, one of the most prestigious 
marketing awards across the European fund 
management industry. The judging panel 
comprised senior clients, industry commentators 
and leading brand specialists across the global 
asset management sector. This major award was 
particularly pleasing because Lawrence Gosling, 
chairman of judges, captured the essence of 
Knowledge. Shared in his closing comments. 
Thinking outside the box 
As well as making our 200+ investment 
professionals’ views heard, we have invested  
in several other properties to develop Knowledge. 
Shared. This includes UK Financial Adviser training 
through our Continuous Professional Development 
programme, which provides accredited education 
and thought leadership on investment topics via  
a variety of events, workshops and webcasts,  
and also consumer education.
The Henderson Global Dividend Index (HGDI) 
was one of our major thought leadership initiatives 
launched in 2014. A proprietary study of the top 
1,000 dividend payers, it has helped us to build  
a global brand that is recognised for its income 
expertise. HGDI has also dramatically increased 
our global press coverage and, combined  
with broad uptake of the views of our income 
investment experts, it has delivered advertising 
coverage equivalent to nearly double our traditional 
global marketing budget. This typifies our 
approach to maximising marketing spend  
for the benefit of clients.
Strategic report Strategic report
41 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Our people: our greatest asset
Focusing on talent development and succession
As a relationship business, people are our most important asset. 
In 2015, the People Strategy for Henderson focused on ensuring 
that we continue to attract, develop and retain talent across all  
of our business areas. 
We have placed renewed emphasis on our learning and 
development curricula in each region to align the offering with  
our business objectives and build a strong and knowledgeable 
workforce. Our management training has been redeveloped to 
add further focus on global mind set, and we continue to update 
our training options to meet our people’s requirements to ensure 
constant upskilling. We launched Knowledge. Shared seminars 
to encourage thought leadership and foster our brand promise 
internally as well as externally.
Employee training attendance
498 courses attended by employees
(2014: 330)
Succession planning has also been a key priority for 2015, with 
business areas working to understand how to develop their top 
talent for the longer term. We have built our skills in the areas of 
assurance and controls by adding new hires in both the first and 
second lines of defence, thereby ensuring we are well placed  
to respond to increasingly complex regulatory requirements.
To support talent development, we initiated a number of 
successful global assignments in 2015, with employees  
from different regions undertaking projects and roles in another 
location. These global mobility moves are critical to sharing 
knowledge, embedding our culture in new locations and 
increasing collaboration and understanding. 
2015 also saw the acceleration of our Australian growth plans 
with the acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and 90 West. These acquisitions significantly 
extend Henderson’s offering to Australian clients, and employees 
from across the globe worked in collaboration to bring these 
projects to a successful conclusion.
We also furthered our commitment to supporting our employees’ 
health and wellbeing, and not simply providing support for 
individuals in their immediate role. As we continue to grow,  
it is paramount that we support our employees to succeed  
in all areas of their professional and personal lives in order  
to retain our talent. 
As we outline in the Corporate Responsibility section later,  
we held our first series of Wellbeing events in our London  
and US offices, providing employees with opportunities to  
learn more on a range of subjects such as nutrition, exercise  
and mental wellbeing. 
In addition to this, our Share Plans team continued to develop  
our employee financial education programme in the UK, with a 
global launch planned for 2016. Through a series of events and 
seminars, employees were provided information on a wide range 
of financial planning topics such as retirement planning and  
tax obligations. As a result, Henderson was awarded the  
ifs ProShare award for ‘Best Financial Education’ initiative  
for employees.
Last year, we said that our people are set apart by their dedication to working together,  
across the globe, to provide an excellent service to our clients. As we expanded our 
business this year, what changed?
In 2015, as we became more global, we built  
out our culture of collaboration, with clients  
at the centre of everything we do.
Kathleen Reeves
Global Head of  
Human Resources
42 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Remuneration 
We continue to operate a Remuneration Strategy that recognises 
and rewards successful performance and behaviours that align  
to our guiding principles. A central component of this strategy  
is employee share ownership, with 92% of our employees being 
shareholders of the Group. We continue to promote share 
ownership, and in 2015 the Group was nominated in the  
ifs ProShare awards category for ‘Best Overall Performance  
in Fostering Employee Share Ownership’. 
Employee Engagement Survey
The results from Henderson’s 2014 Employee Engagement 
Survey were well above industry benchmarks and demonstrated 
that our people understand, and are contributing to, our strategy. 
The focus for 2015 was on maintaining these strong engagement 
levels through increased collaboration, clear decision-making  
and listening to and acting on feedback. We have reviewed  
our global benefits and defined clear principles to guide our  
benefits provision.
As a result, the outcome of our 2015 “pulse check” employee 
survey showed a two percentage point increase in our overall 
engagement score since 2014 (87% to 89%). In addition,  
97% of employees responded positively to the question ‘I care  
about the future of Henderson’, showing the responsibility that 
employees feel towards Henderson and commitment to its future.
Correspondingly, our retention rates continue to be high, with 
17% of current employees having worked at Henderson for  
10 years or more.
Length of service
17% employees for 10 years or more
(2014: 14%)
Diversity and inclusion 
Building a global culture means ensuring that as an organisation, 
we value difference, embrace diversity and are representative of 
the clients that we serve across the globe. Henderson’s Diversity 
and Inclusion Committee has developed Henderson’s approach 
to diversity, including a global roll out of unconscious bias 
training, developing our approach to more flexible ways of 
working and improving diversity in our recruitment. 
We have also piloted maternity coaching in the UK for female 
employees who are either due to embark on a period of  
maternity leave or who have recently returned from a period  
of maternity leave. Many of our peers run similar programmes  
and have seen significant improvement in their ability to retain 
female talent after a period of maternity leave. Initial feedback 
from participants has been encouraging that a similar impact  
can be realised at Henderson.
We continued to invest heavily in our Trainee Programme,  
part of the industry wide Investment 2020 initiative, for which 
Andrew Formica recently accepted the Financial News Editor’s 
Choice Award for Henderson’s role in its establishment. This 
commitment to attracting diverse entry-level talent will facilitate 
the development of our global approach and ensure that we are 
constantly innovating and bringing fresh ideas to our clients. 
Gender diversity
All employees
ExCo
Group Board
Subsidiary
Boards
35%
(356)
65%
(660)
11%
(1)
89%
(8)
33%
(3)
67%
(6)
18%
(10)
82%
(45)
Women Men
Priorities in 2016
Our People Strategy for 2016 will continue to focus  
on supporting the business to deliver excellent performance  
and service to our clients as we continue to diversify, grow  
and globalise. The Human Resources team itself has undergone 
a period of transformation to strengthen the function, increase  
its skills base, and provide better global support to our business. 
Capitalising on these changes will mean that we are further 
aligned with both managers and employees to deliver on  
our strategy. 
Strategic report Strategic report
43 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility
It is important to our clients, shareholders and employees that  
we engage in activities that benefit society as well as benefiting 
the Company. This not only builds trust and enhances our brand, 
but there is also evidence of a correlation between good 
governance and strong performance. We believe businesses  
that think strategically about environmental and social risks,  
and that are governed well, stand more chance of generating  
and preserving value for shareholders over the long term.
How are your CR initiatives linked to the  
corporate strategy?
In order to make our CR strategy effective, we believe it must be 
integrated with our key business objectives and have measurable 
outcomes. We focus our CR programme on the following five 
pillars, each of which is integral to delivering on our strategy  
of growth and globalisation:
Responsible Investment: Active investment management  
is our core business, and our mission is to be a trusted global 
asset manager. We believe that following the principles of good 
stewardship and responsible investment will not only retain the 
trust of our stakeholders, but will help deliver better investment 
outcomes over the long term.
Clients: Our mission is focused on delivering excellent 
performance and service to our clients. Our philosophy is to  
put clients’ needs at the heart of everything we do. Embedding  
a client-centric attitude across our global business instinctively 
forms a central theme of our CR programme.
Environment: Environmental sustainability is both a moral and  
a commercial imperative. Climate change has become a major 
investment issue – the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference  
in Paris highlighted the risks and opportunities that this presents 
to the asset management industry. Experience also shows that 
managing our environmental footprint often goes hand-in-hand 
with our strategic priority to operate efficiently.
Community: Making a positive contribution to the communities 
in which we operate is important as we continue to globalise  
our business. Engaging with local communities will both support 
the development of our corporate culture and, externally,  
our brand worldwide.
People: Our people are our key resource, and we must look 
after them as proactively and carefully as we do our clients’ 
assets. Attraction and retention of a high quality workforce  
are an essential component in delivering our business strategy.
What progress have you made and what are your 
priorities going forward?
Henderson’s record on CR remains strong. In 2015, we were 
identified as one of the most sustainable businesses within our 
industry sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Europe. 
We share above the logos of some of the organisations which 
have assessed, accredited or endorsed Henderson’s CR 
initiatives over the last year. 
To align with our corporate strategy, we have committed to  
a series of objectives that either complement or enable our five 
year plan of growth and globalisation. Each of our five pillars  
now includes a target which we aim to reach by 2018. 
Last year, we noted our commitment to act responsibly, not only in the way we invest 
and engage with our clients, but also in terms of supporting our people, managing our 
impact on the environment and contributing to the communities of which we are part.
Corporate responsibility (CR) has intrinsic  
value to Henderson. 
Roger Thompson
Chief Financial Officer
44 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Aims and objectives 
Henderson is committed to the principles of good stewardship 
and responsible investment, and to being a positive influence  
on the companies we invest in. We believe integrating 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues into our 
investment decision-making and ownership practices will help 
deliver better investment outcomes for our clients. 
We aim to ensure that our approach to responsible investment  
is a positive differentiator for Henderson as we seek to grow and 
globalise the business. We plan to accomplish this by delivering 
the following commitments by 2018:
• To have investment solutions that meet and anticipate  
the growing client interest in responsible investment
• To ensure that, where consistent with the underlying 
investment process, investment teams in all geographies  
are able to meet the responsible investment requirements  
of the most advanced asset owners
• To ensure all investment and client facing staff can fully 
articulate the Henderson approach to responsible investment 
and where relevant, the team-specific approach
• To monitor and report on each investment area’s approach  
to responsible investment
• To maintain top-quartile performance for Henderson as a whole 
in external responsible investment assessments and surveys 
such as the UNPRI.
Progress in 2015
• Significant increase in the use of the Research Hub, capturing 
company engagement activity across investment teams
• Raised awareness of ESG issues across the business through 
increasing the number of seminars/training sessions on topics 
such as climate change 
• Integration of TruCost carbon emissions data into ESG 
investment risk reports. These reports show the carbon 
footprint of funds relative to the benchmark and identify  
the largest contributors 
• Significant progress has been made in developing the 
approach to ESG integration within our Fixed Income business
• In line with our commitment to collaborative engagement,  
we joined the Investor Forum, an initiative which seeks to 
facilitate collective shareholder engagement with the largest  
UK companies
Responsible Investment
Aims and objectives 
Client engagement is a central theme of Henderson’s CR 
programme. We are committed to meeting the expectations  
of our clients and to ensuring the fair treatment of customers  
is fully integrated into our business model. 
We aim to establish Henderson as an industry leader in 
embedding the needs of our clients and their customers at  
the heart of everything we do. Progress will be measured by:
• Surveying global staff attitudes to customer issues
• Tracking customer satisfaction in major client channels
• Taking leadership roles in client-focused industry fora
• Early adoption of appropriate industry and regulatory initiatives.
Progress in 2015
There has been a continued focus on embedding a client-centric 
attitude across our global business.
• Customer governance procedures have been established  
in our offices worldwide; local Customer Champions escalate 
customer issues to regional senior management as well as  
to the London-based Customer Interests and TCF Committee, 
a delegated sub-committee of the ExCo
• The annual Customer Interests Staff Survey was extended  
from the UK to global offices for the first time. A high global 
participation rate showed excellent engagement by staff
• Customer satisfaction studies were carried out for the first  
time with our customers in the US to complement established 
studies within UK Retail and EMEA Institutional
• Henderson is also a supporter of the Investment  
Association’s Statement of Principles for Investment Managers. 
These 10 principles represent a culture of excellence for 
investment managers in helping clients succeed in achieving 
their financial goals
Monitoring performance
Customer Interests Staff Survey
• 2015: participation rate 84% (2014 (UK only): 71%) 
Customer satisfaction studies
We undertake focused customer satisfaction studies to better 
understand our customers’ needs. 
UK Retail
• 2015: Grant Thornton/IFDS Customer Call Satisfaction Score 
95.9/100 (2014: 81.7/100) 
• 2015: IFDS Investor in Customers rating: 
««« Exceptional 
(2014: 
««« Exceptional)
EMEA Institutional
• 2014: Client experience rated as above average or excellent 
98% (Next survey 2016)
US Wholesale
• 2015: Client experience rated satisfied, quite satisfied or very 
satisfied 91% (2014: n/a)
Clients
Henderson’s voting record
95%
2012 2013 2014 2015
56%
91%
94%
95%
Strategic report Strategic report
45 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility continued
Aims and objectives
Henderson understands the crucial role that a business must  
play in managing and mitigating its environmental impact. This  
is a significant factor when considering how we invest and we 
believe it is important that we lead by example.
We recognise the significance of climate change and aim to  
grow and globalise our business without increasing our net 
impact on the environment. We plan to accomplish this by 
delivering the following commitments by 2018:
• To offset any unavoidable CO
2
 emissions for the operations  
of our global office network and business travel
• To maintain a CDP score in the top quartile of the FTSE 350 
and the ASX 200
• To reduce GHG emissions by 15% by region per FTE over  
the next three year period (2016-2018).
Progress in 2015 
This year, we celebrated our 10th anniversary as a certified 
CarbonNeutral® business. During this period, Henderson  
has completely offset its unavoidable carbon emissions. This 
means that for every tCO
2
e we produced, we have invested in a 
voluntary carbon reduction project saving an equivalent amount. 
Over 25,000 tCO
2
e offset since 2005
This is particularly poignant in the light of the 2015 Paris climate 
agreement, which if it is to achieve its aims, will require a drastic 
reduction in global carbon emissions over the coming decades. 
Henderson welcomed the agreement, which will help establish 
investor certainty, and encourage investment to flow towards  
a low carbon and sustainable future.
The transition to a low carbon economy will involve enormous 
investment disruption. Spotting this disruption and allocating  
our clients’ capital appropriately are what Henderson’s business 
of active investment management is all about. Our strategy has 
been to raise awareness of the impact that climate change, and  
in particular increased regulation on carbon emissions, can have 
on investment portfolios. 
Environment
Our dedicated Governance & Responsible Investment team 
provides carbon risk reports and engages extensively with fund 
managers, as well as ensuring that the Risk team is factoring it 
into the fund managers’ risk review process. At the same time, 
Henderson offers top-rated SRI funds with low carbon exposure. 
The Henderson Global Care Growth Fund is a low carbon fund, 
which avoids investing in oil, coal and fossil fuel power generation.
CDP ratings
Reporting year
Henderson 
disclosure 
percentage
Henderson 
performance 
band
FTSE 1 00 
average 
disclosure 
percentage/
performance 
band
FTSE 250 
average 
percentage/
performance 
band
2015 99 B 94/B 82/D
2014 97 A 85/B 72/C
CDP has recognised Henderson for its continued commitment  
to exceptional carbon reporting standards by awarding the 
Company a position on the CDP FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure 
Leadership Index for the second consecutive year with  
a disclosure score rising from 97% to 99%. 
Our growth and globalisation strategy has resulted in the growth 
of our unavoidable emissions. However, our focus is to deliver 
this strategy in the most sustainable way possible, limiting the 
Company’s impact on the environment.
GHG emissions by scope (tCO
2
e)
Scope 2015 2014
Scope 1
Fuel (natural gas) – 12
Scope 2
Electricity 2,148 2,053
Scope 3
Business travel (air, rail, road) 3,380 2,661
Hotels 218 218
Business freight (air, road) 45 49
Total Scope 3 3,643 2,928
Total GHG emissions 5,800
1
4,993
Total per employee 5.56 4.82
Note:
1. Figure includes 9.5 tCO
2
e from two rented desks in the US.
500
0
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
0
8
6
2
4
10
12
14
Total Group (tCO
2
e)
Regional GHG emissions: total Group (tCO
2
e)
Average per employee (tCO
2
e)
2014 2014 2015 2015
Regional GHG emissions: average per employee (tCO
2
e/FTE)
GHG emissions by region and per employee (tCO
2
e)
United States UK Europe (ex-UK) Asia Paciﬁc
46 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Aims and objectives
We are committed to supporting the development and wellbeing 
of our people, nurturing them just as we do our clients’ assets. 
We achieve this through our inclusive culture, positive work 
environment and by ensuring equality of opportunity.
From a CR perspective, as Henderson grows it is important  
that we continue to foster an environment that cares about our 
employees’ wellbeing, provides a platform for indiscriminative 
career development and makes the relevant training available  
to support a diverse and global workforce. 
We plan to accomplish this by delivering the following 
commitments by 2018:
• Wellbeing initiatives will be made available to all our  
global workforce, with at least 50% employee participation
• The career development score in our Employee Engagement 
Survey to improve by a minimum of 10%.
Progress in 2015
• 2015 Employee Engagement Survey results have shown an 
improvement in our career development scores, with 61% of 
employees responding positively to the question ‘I know what  
I have to do to progress my career at Henderson’ (up from 
57% in 2014)
• 26 internal candidates successfully filled a role vacancy  
in 2015, demonstrating that Henderson is able to create 
opportunities and support development for our people 
• Excellent feedback was received in the UK and US  
to the Henderson Wellbeing Fortnights – two-week  
programmes of events such as exercise classes  
and seminars by specialist speakers
• Henderson participated in the Britain’s Healthiest Company 
initiative, which aims to help understand the greatest health 
risks our employees face. We recognise that in a growing 
business, there are many competing demands and priorities  
for employees to navigate through. Results of initiatives such 
as these, together with our global Employee Assistance 
Programmes, guide action to help manage pressure, reduce 
absence rates as well as increasing employee engagement
• The Sports, Social & Wellbeing Committee continues to  
be extremely active, with a number of successful employee 
sports and social events hosted throughout the year, creating 
opportunities for employees to improve fitness and network 
with each other
Monitoring performance
89% employee engagement (2014: 87%)
14% above the Financial Services benchmark.
  
The preceding Our People section further outlines the specific 
initiatives put in place and achievements Henderson has 
made against its People Strategy.
People
Aims and objectives
As Henderson grows, it is important to us that we continue  
to support our employees with their philanthropic activity while 
also giving back to the local communities in which we operate. 
We aim to enhance our core brand proposition Knowledge.
Shared by focusing our activities on financial education initiatives 
and employee volunteering. We plan to accomplish this by 
delivering the following commitments by 2018:
• All offices with over 50 employees to offer a financial  
education programme within the local community
• Volunteering opportunities and community projects to be 
integrated into our learning and development programme.
Progress in 2015
• We continued to embed Knowledge. Shared into our 
community engagement strategy through volunteering,  
financial education days and job preparation sessions 
• Henderson supported employees’ philanthropic activity by 
matching employee charity fundraising in the UK and US,  
and on donations through UK Give As Y ou Earn 
• Social mobility and the Henderson Trainee Programme  
remain of great importance; we continue to provide trainee 
opportunities through Investment 2020 and expanded  
the Trainee Programme into the US 
• Henderson hosted four RedSTART Financial Education days  
at our London office and a series of financial education and 
career preparation days in both Chicago and London
• We continued to contribute to Disaster Emergency Committee 
appeals, as well as to the Issac Newton Foundation and our 
long-standing East London charity partner, Community Links 
• Our US offices continued their involvement in the annual 
Hunger Task Force Food Drive and strengthened their 
relationship with Mercy Homes 
• The teaching hospital, Angkor Hospital for Children,  
was selected as our nominated charity in Asia
Henderson Foundation charitable spend
£175,444
Community
Strategic report Strategic report
47 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Contents
49  Chairman’s introduction
50  Board of Directors and leadership
54 Strategy, governance structure and Board business
56  Effectiveness
57  Nomination Committee report
59  Accountability
60  Board Risk Committee report
62  Audit Committee report
66  Relations with shareholders
67 Directors’ remuneration report
85 Compliance statements and application of principles  
 and recommendations
89 Directors’ report
91 Directors’ responsibilities statement
92 Independent auditors’ report
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
48 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 We have continued to progress along our journey of growth  
and globalisation as shown not only by the organic growth of  
our business as explained elsewhere in this report but also by  
the acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth 
Management. Further information can be found on page 9.  
These acquisitions will accelerate our strategy to grow  
and globalise our business.
We have in place a robust governance framework that underpins 
and enables us to deliver on our strategy and support our 
business model and I hope you find useful the reports from  
the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Board 
Risk Committees. 2015 has been another challenging year for 
the Board and I thought it might be useful if we set out a more 
detailed summary of the matters we considered during the year. 
We have signed up to the Investment Association’s Statement  
of Principles for Investment Managers. These 10 principles 
represent a culture of excellence for investment managers  
in helping clients succeed in achieving their financial goals.
On the subject of culture, the Board received the results of a 
culture audit undertaken by KPMG. There were a lot of positives 
to be taken from the report but there are some areas in which we 
could do better and a sub-committee of the ExCo is investigating 
how to implement findings and recommendations.
 
Henderson operates in a highly and constantly developing 
regulatory environment. Therefore, a great deal of time has been 
spent by the Board and the Audit Committee on regulatory 
matters as we ensure that our Compliance systems are 
appropriately embedded in the organisation.
I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Kalpana 
Desai to the Board. A description of her appointment process  
is set out in the report from the Nomination Committee.
This Corporate Governance Statement is correct as at 10 
February 2016 and has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
10 February 2016
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
We continue to have in place a robust governance 
framework that underpins and enables us to deliver 
on our strategy and support our business model.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
  Our formal compliance statements with an explanation of how we applied the principles of the UK Governance Code  
and the recommendations set out in the ASX Principles are set out on pages 85 to 88.
Strategic report Governance
49 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors and leadership
The Board comprises a Non-Executive 
Chairman, two Executive Directors and six 
other Non-Executive Directors.
Left to right: Kevin Dolan, Richard Gillingwater, Andrew Formica, Kalpana Desai,  
Robert Jeens, Roger Thompson, Sarah Arkle, Angela Seymour-Jackson and Tim How
50 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance
51 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Richard Gillingwater
Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Experience: 
Mr Gillingwater was Dean of Cass Business School until 2013.  
Prior to this he spent 10 years at Kleinwort Benson, before moving  
to BZW and, in due course, becoming joint Head of Corporate 
Finance and then latterly Chairman of European Investment Banking 
at Credit Suisse First Boston. He was Chief Executive and later 
Chairman of the Shareholder Executive, Chairman of CDC Group plc 
and has also been a Non-Executive Director of P&O, Debenhams, 
Tomkins, Qinetiq Group and Kidde. Mr Gillingwater resigned as 
Senior Independent Director of Hiscox Ltd on 20 May 2015 and  
as a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc  
with effect from 4 June 2015.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since February 2013 and appointed  
as Chairman following the AGM in May 2013. Current three  
year term of office expires in February 2019.
External appointments and significant commitments: 
Currently Chairman of SSE plc and Senior Independent Director  
of Helical Bar plc.
Committee membership: 
• Nomination Committee (Chairman)
• Attends other Committee meetings by invitation
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Experience:
Mr Formica has been with the firm and in the fund management 
industry since 1993. He has held various senior roles with the  
Group and he has been a member of the Executive Committee  
since 2004. Prior to being appointed Chief Executive of the 
Company, he was Joint Managing Director of the Listed Assets 
business (from September 2006) and was Head of Equities  
(since September 2004). In the early part of his career, he was an 
equity manager and analyst for the Group. Mr Formica resigned as  
a Director of TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited on 1 June 2015.
Term of office
1
: 
Executive Director since November 2008. No fixed term of office.
2
External appointments: 
Senior Independent Director of the Board of The Investment 
Association. Non-Executive Director of Hammerson plc since  
26 November 2015.
Committee membership:
• Attends Committee meetings by invitation
Roger Thompson 
Chief Financial Officer
Experience: 
Mr Thompson joined Henderson Group from JP Morgan Asset 
Management where most recently he was Global Chief Operating 
Officer and was previously Head of UK and, prior to that, International 
CFO. In his 19 year career at JP Morgan, Mr Thompson held a broad 
range of roles and worked internationally, spending time in Tokyo, 
Singapore and Hong Kong. He has wide-ranging asset management 
experience, both in the UK and internationally.
Term of office
1
: 
Executive Director since June 2013. No fixed term of office.
2
External appointments: 
Steering committee member of ICI Global.
Committee membership: 
• Attends Committee meetings by invitation
Sarah Arkle 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board  
Risk Committee
Experience: 
Ms Arkle has been in the financial services industry for over 33 years. 
She joined Allied Dunbar Asset Management in 1983 which became 
Threadneedle in 1994. She was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle  
until the end of July 2012 and was Chief Investment Officer until 
December 2010, a role she held for 10 years. She was instrumental  
in establishing Threadneedle’s investment process and recruiting  
a number of the firm’s senior fund managers. Previously, Ms Arkle 
worked at the Far Eastern stockbroker WI Carr (Overseas) Limited 
and was an advisor to the South Y orkshire Pension Fund.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since September 2012. Current three  
year term of office expires in September 2018.
External appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc 
and a member of the Newnham College, Cambridge Investment 
Committee. Non-Executive Director of JPMorgan Emerging Markets 
Investment Trust plc.
Committee membership: 
• Board Risk Committee (Chair)
• Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
Kalpana Desai 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Experience: 
Ms Desai has over 25 years of international advisory and investment 
banking experience, primarily gained in the Asia-Pacific region. Until 
2013, Ms Desai was Head of Macquarie Capital Asia, the investment 
banking division of Macquarie Group Limited, headquartered in 
Australia. Prior to this, she was Head of the Asia-Pacific Mergers  
& Acquisitions Group and a Managing Director from 2001 in the 
investment banking division of Bank of America Merrill Lynch based  
in Hong Kong, having joined that firm in 1998. Earlier, Ms Desai 
worked in the corporate finance divisions of Barclays de Zoete  
Wedd in London and Hong Kong and at J. Henry Schroder Wagg  
in London, having started her career in the financial services division 
of Coopers & Lybrand Consulting in London. She was a member  
of the Takeovers and Mergers Panel of the Securities and Futures 
Commission in Hong Kong from 2007 to 2014.
External appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of Canaccord Genuity Group Inc., 
headquartered in Canada. 
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since 5 October 2015. Ms Desai’s current 
three year term of office expires in October 2018.
Committee membership: 
• Board Risk Committee
• Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Attends Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation
Board of Directors and leadership continued
52 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Kevin Dolan 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Experience: 
Mr Dolan has been in the financial services industry for 36 years and 
has extensive experience in M&A transactions, both in Europe and the 
US. Mr Dolan has held various executive positions, including as Chief 
Executive of the Asset Management Division of Bank of Ireland Group 
and Chief Executive of Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management. 
He spent 10 years with the AXA Group where he was Chief 
Executive Officer of AXA Investment Managers Paris, and Global 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of AXA Investment Management. He 
was Chief Executive of La Fayette Investment Management in London 
from 2006 until 2009. Mr Dolan has been a Director on a number  
of boards in Europe and the US, including DLJ and Alliance Capital. 
Mr Dolan was a Director of Meeschaert Gestion Privée until 2015.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since September 2011. Mr Dolan’s current 
three year term of office expires in September 2017 .
External appointments: 
Founding partner of Anafin LLC and a senior advisor to  
One Peak Partners.
Committee membership: 
• Board Risk Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
• Attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation
Tim How 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Experience: 
Mr How has extensive business experience. He was Chief Executive 
of Majestic Wine PLC from 1989 until August 2008 and was formerly 
Managing Director of Bejam Group Plc. He was Chairman of 
Downing Income VCT 4 Plc until December 2013, Deputy Chairman 
of the Peabody Trust and Non-Executive Director of Peabody Capital 
plc until February 2014.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since November 2008 and Senior 
Independent Director since January 2010. Mr How’s current term  
of office expires in November 2016.
External appointments: 
Chairman of both Woburn Enterprises Limited and Roys (Wroxham) 
Ltd. He is also Non-Executive Director of Dixons Carphone plc and 
Senior Independent Director of the Norfolk and Norwich University 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Committee membership: 
• Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
• Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Attends Board Risk Committee meetings by invitation
Robert Jeens
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
Experience: 
Mr Jeens has extensive experience of financial services, initially  
as an audit partner in T ouche Ross & Co, and subsequently as Finance 
Director of Kleinwort Benson Group plc and Woolwich plc. His previous 
Non-Executive Director appointments include the Chairman of nCipher 
plc and the Deputy Chairman of Hepworth plc. Mr Jeens was a 
Non-Executive Director of The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited from 2003 to May 2012. Mr Jeens resigned as a Non-Executive 
Director of TR European Growth Trust PLC in June 2014.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since July 2009. Mr Jeens’ current term  
of office expires in July 2016.
External appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan Russian Securities plc  
and Chairman of Allianz Technology Trust plc (previously RCM 
Technology Trust plc).
Committee membership: 
• Audit Committee (Chairman)
• Board Risk Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Attends Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation
• Conflicts of Interest Committee (Chairman)
Angela Seymour-Jackson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Experience: 
Ms Seymour-Jackson has over 20 years’ experience in retail financial 
services. She has held various senior marketing and distribution roles 
in Norwich Union Insurance, General Accident Insurance, CGU  
plc and Aviva. She was Chief Executive Officer of RAC Motoring 
Services Limited from 2010 until 2012 and led the sale to Carlyle. 
She joined Aegon UK in May 2012 and was appointed Managing 
Director of the Workplace Solutions Division in December 2012.
Term of office
1
: 
Non-Executive Director since January 2014. Ms Seymour-Jackson’s 
current three year term of office expires in January 2017 .
External appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc and esure Plc.
Committee membership: 
• Board Risk Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
• Attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation
Notes:
1. If a Non-Executive Director is reappointed after having served six years,  
such reappointment, and any subsequent reappointment, will normally  
be for a period of 12 months. Resignations in 2015: None. All Directors’ 
appointments are subject to their retirement by rotation and reappointment  
by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meetings.
2. Executive Directors are employed on annual rolling agreements and their service 
contracts are terminable on 1 2 months’ written notice by the Company or on  
not less than six months’ written notice by the relevant Executive Director.
Independence
Although the Chairman, Richard Gillingwater, met the independence criteria on appointment, the UK Code provides that the test of independence is not appropriate 
thereafter and does not allow the Chairman to be counted with the independent Non-Executive Directors in determining whether there is an appropriate balance on 
the Board, which is not the case under the ASX Principles. For the avoidance of doubt, the Chairman considers himself to be both objective and independent but for 
good order he is not counted with the independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers all the other Non-Executive Directors – Sarah Arkle, Kalpana 
Desai, Kevin Dolan, Tim How, Robert Jeens and Angela Seymour-Jackson – to be independent, as they do not have any interest or business or other relationship 
which could, or could reasonably be perceived to, interfere materially with their ability to act in the best interests of the Company. We have considered the criteria 
proposed by the UK Code and the ASX Principles in assessing the independence of the Directors. Materiality, as referred to in the ASX Principles, has been 
assessed on a case-by-case basis by reference to each Director’s individual circumstances rather than general materiality thresholds. We are satisfied that the 
independent Non-Executive Directors meet a quantitative materiality threshold for independence, which is that none of them has a relationship with the Group  
which generates or accounts for more than 5% of the Group’s revenue or expenses. Accordingly, the Board (excluding the Chairman) has a majority of Directors 
who are independent. Tim How is the Senior Independent Director.
Strategic report Governance
53 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategy 
An explanation of the business model and the strategy for 
delivering the objectives of the Group is set out on page 14.
Strategy day 
We dedicated a day to strategy at which the Board received 
presentations and proposals from management on our progress 
against strategy, in addition to considering regular strategy 
updates from management during the year. Some of the 
Non-Executive Directors also attended the senior management 
conference held in May 2015. Issues considered at the Strategy 
Day included:
• Overview of the markets, regulatory, and industry environments 
 (Read more in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 47)
• Climate Change  (Read more on page 44)
• Capital and Tax Strategy  (Read more on pages 18 to 21)
• Alternatives business  (Read more on page 36)
• Disruptive Innovation.
A number of initiatives identified at the strategy day have been 
incorporated into the business plan. These are implemented  
by the ExCo and monitored by the Board during the year. 
Board visit to Chicago
All Board and standing Board Committee meetings were held  
in the UK, except for meetings in Chicago, US, in October 2015. 
During the visit to the US, the Board met a number of members  
of our US business in both Chicago and Milwaukee and also 
received presentations from Henderson Geneva US staff.  
As part of our continuing desire to improve and challenge we also 
received an update on the lessons learned from the acquisition  
of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management.
Further strategy discussions were also held on:
• Pan-Asia Strategy 
• Institutional Business
• Progress against the five year plan  (Read more  
on pages 14 and 15).
Board business 
The Board also considers a number of issues during the  
year to ensure that the strategy of growth and globalisation  
can be carried out. 
A typical Board agenda is ordered so that the strategic items and 
projects are considered first. Depending on the importance of the 
items, either regulatory or finance, capital and budget items be 
considered next, followed by other business matters. The items 
that do not require detailed consideration or discussion are set 
out at the end of the agenda. Where possible, items are grouped 
together to ensure that the items flow according to topic and 
management’s time is used effectively when presenting. Sessions 
are usually provided which include training or presentations from 
the business during days on which Board meetings are held.
  A description of how the Board operates, including  
a high level statement of which types of decisions are taken  
by the Board and management is set out on page 85 in Role  
of the Board.
Governance
Strategy, governance structure  
and Board business
Read the Matters 
reserved to the Board 
on our Group website
www.henderson.com/ir
Governance structure 
Henderson  
Group plc  
Board
Code Staff 
Remuneration 
Committee
Conflicts 
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Board Risk 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Chief Executive 
Andrew Formica
Other 
operating 
Committees
Executive 
Committee
54 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 2015 Director attendance at Board and Committee meetings
                       Committee meetings attended
Date appointed Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Risk
Richard Gillingwater 06/02/13 10/10 n/a n/a 4/4 n/a
Kevin Dolan 26/09/11 9/10 n/a 5/5 4/4 4/4
Tim How 28/11/08 10/10 5/5 5/5 4/4 n/a
Robert Jeens 29/07/09 10/10 5/5 n/a 4/4 4/4
Andrew Formica 05/11/08 10/10 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Sarah Arkle 05/09/12 10/10 5/5 5/5 4/4 4/4
Roger Thompson 26/06/13 10/10 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Angela Seymour-Jackson 23/01/14 10/10 n/a 5/5 4/4 4/4
Kalpana Desai 05/10/15 3/3 1/1 n/a 2/2 1/1
Notes:
• All Directors attended 100% of Board and Committee meetings of whic h they are members, with the exception of Kevin Dolan who was unable to attend  
one Board meeting.
• Kalpana Desai was appointed to each of the Committees on the following dates: Board on 5 October 2015, Audit Committee on 15 October 2015, Board Risk 
Committee on 15 October 2015 and Nomination Committee on 15 October 2015.
January
• Acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest, 
Perennial Growth Management and  
90 West
• Sale of Remaining Stake in  
TH Real Estate
• Exit of Infrastructure Fund Interest  
in John Laing plc
February
• Acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest, 
Perennial Growth Management and  
90 West
• Sale of Remaining 40% Stake  
in TH Real Estate
• Exit of Infrastructure Fund Interest in 
John Laing plc
• Update on Regulatory Capital
• Board Evaluation Update
• Monthly Performance Report
• Share Plan Issuance Programme
• Results of Employee Engagement 
Survey
• Annual Report and Full Y ear Results
• Final Dividend for 2014
• Notice of 2015 AGM
• Update on FCA Matters
April
• Impact of the Acquisition of Perennial 
Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth 
Management on Asian Business
• Update on Acquisition of Remaining 
Stake in 90 West
• Update on EBA Remuneration 
Guidelines
• 2015 Re-forecast
• Monthly Performance Report
• Insurance Renewal
• Treating Customers Fairly
• Retail Customer Interests Project 
Implementation Report 
• Update on FCA Matters
June
• Board Strategy Day
• Share Buyback Mechanics  
and Considerations
• Interim Dividend for 2015
• Monthly Performance Report
• Update on FCA Matters
July
• Meeting with the FCA
• Update on the Finance  
Platform Programme
• Investment Association Statement  
of Principles for Investment Managers
• Appointment of Kalpana Desai subject 
to FCA Approval
• Approval of Group Tax Policy
• Monthly Performance Report
• Delegations of Authority
• Share Buyback 
• 2015 Interim Results
• Interim Dividend for 2015
• Treating Customers Fairly
• Update on FCA Matters
October
• Pan-Asia Strategy
• Institutional Update
• Board Strategy Discussion
• Draft 2016 Budget and Review  
of Strategic Initiatives
• Lessons Learned from the Acquisition 
of Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial 
Growth Management
• Culture Audit
• Monthly Performance Report
• Treating Customers Fairly
• Review of Non-Executive Director Fees
• Update on FCA Matters
December
• 2016 Budget and Five Y ear  
Strategic Plan
• 2016 Dividend
• Revolving Credit Facility
• Review of Corporate Governance 
Arrangements
• People Update
• Review of External Advisers
• Investment Review: Acquisition  
and Investment in Teams since 2011
• Business Update (including November 
flows, financial and performance)
• Update on FCA Matters
An overview of the topics addressed by the Board in 2015
Strategic report Governance
55 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Governance
Training
To ensure that the Directors continually update their skills and 
knowledge, all Directors receive regular presentations on different 
aspects of the Group’s business and on financial, legal and 
regulatory matters affecting our sector. For example, during 2015, 
the Directors received presentations from the Head of Emerging 
Market Equities and the Head of Emerging Market Credit as  
well as a thorough summary of the results of our Employee 
Engagement Survey and a deep dive into how investment  
risk is managed.
Board evaluation review
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
The 2015 Board internal evaluation focused on the areas 
highlighted from the 2014 external evaluation and was conducted 
internally via a web portal, to increase efficiency and improve 
upon the previous paper-based exercise. As usual for the 
evaluation, the Directors completed a questionnaire regarding  
the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees following 
which the Chairman held a formal evaluation meeting with each 
Director. The Senior Independent Director met with the Non-
Executive Directors and evaluated the Chairman’s performance. 
The performance of Andrew Formica, Chief Executive, was 
evaluated by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee. 
The evaluation of the ExCo members was undertaken  
by the Chief Executive and the Remuneration Committee.  
These performance evaluations were conducted in accordance 
with the processes disclosed on our website.
As disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report, the 2014 actions 
included increasing international experience on the Board,  
the embedding of succession planning in the business and 
reviewing the structure of information provided to the Board and 
Committees. To address these, Kalpana Desai was appointed to 
the Board in 2015 and the Nomination Committee also includes 
succession planning as a standing item on its agenda. Enhancing 
the information provided to the Board forms part of an ongoing 
process of improvement and development.
The outcome of the 2015 evaluation process was that the  
Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively and  
the progress against the actions arising from the 2014 external 
evaluation will continue to be monitored and progress mapped. 
Certain items arising from the 2015 evaluation included 
continuing to ensure that strategy remains a focal part of the 
Board agenda, to engage with shareholders, especially in  
relation to voting matters, and to review succession planning.
Board skills
Richard 
Gillingwater
Andrew 
Formica
Roger 
Thompson
Kevin Dolan Kalpana 
Desai
Robert 
Jeens
Angela 
Seymour-
Jackson
Tim How Sarah Arkle
P PP PP PP P P P P PP
PP PP PP PP PP P P P P
PP PP P PP PP PP PP PP P
PP P PP P PP PP P PP P
P P P P P PP PP P PP
PP PP P P P P PP PP PP
Asset Management
International
Acquisitions
Finance
Risk
Client Focus
Effectiveness
56 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Nomination Committee report
In 2015 the Nomination Committee concentrated on two main 
issues: (i) the search for a new Non-Executive Director to assist 
with our strategy of growth and globalisation and to address an 
area of improvement identified from our 2014 Board evaluation 
exercise and (ii) succession planning.
The Nomination Committee engaged Heidrick & Struggles  
to carry out a search for a new Non-Executive Director, as  
the search firm most likely to produce a selection of strong 
candidates for potential Non-Executive Directors with a strong 
current knowledge of the Asian market. Heidrick & Struggles 
have no other connection with Henderson.
Each candidate was rated on five criteria: 
• knowledge of Asian markets
• knowledge of the industry
• good fit with Henderson
• Board experience
• interest in the role.
Following the discussions at the Nomination Committee, three 
candidates from the short list presented were met with, following 
which Kalpana Desai emerged as the leading and preferred 
candidate. Ms Desai met the Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Director, the Audit Committee Chairman, the Board Risk 
Committee Chair, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer. It was noted from the interview process that Ms Desai 
possessed strong international financial services experience, 
particularly in the Asia-Pacific region which complements our 
strategic intent of globalising Henderson. A recommendation  
was made to the Board to appoint Ms Desai as a Non-Executive 
Director and her appointment took effect on 5 October 2015.
A comprehensive induction programme was arranged and  
held for Ms Desai. This included receiving presentations from  
the business areas and meeting key individuals within the Group  
to ensure that she has an appropriate level of knowledge of the 
Group, its business, regulatory aspects and the risks facing it.
The Nomination Committee also received an update on 
management succession (see page 58).
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
10 February 2016 
The executive succession plan was revised and 
extended to include key roles below ExCo.
Membership
• Richard Gillingwater (Chairman)
• Sarah Arkle
• Kalpana Desai
• Kevin Dolan
• Tim How
• Robert Jeens
• Angela Seymour-Jackson
Dear Shareholder
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee has responsibility for considering 
the size, composition, expertise, experience and balance of 
the Board as well as succession planning. 
Read more information on our Group website
www.henderson.com/ir
Strategic report Governance
57 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board gender balance (%)
Board split
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
 Male
 Female
 Non-Executive Chairman
 Executive Director
 Non-Executive Director
 6+ years
 3 – 6 years
 1 – 3 years
Diversity
While we do not have formal diversity targets, as we believe  
that appointments should be based on merit and objective 
criteria, we are committed to promoting equality and diversity  
in the workplace and recognise the need for, and benefits of, 
diversity in helping us attract and retain high potential employees. 
We have numerous policies, employee benefits and business 
practices in place to support a diverse workforce and a forum, 
chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary,  
made up of representatives from across the business has been 
constituted on behalf of the ExCo to look more closely at diversity 
and inclusion at Henderson. 
Succession planning and talent management
The Nomination Committee has succession planning as  
a standing item for its meetings. The executive succession 
plan was revised and extended to include key roles below 
ExCo and our highest performing fund managers and a 
detailed plan was reviewed at the June meeting. To support 
this, executive development has focused on building  
closer relationships across ExCo, increasing constructive 
challenge and becoming more open to change. The 
majority of development has occurred through feedback, 
coaching and team effectiveness work. 
In addition, a talent strategy and framework has been 
developed which has been used to support senior 
managers to have more consistent discussions about  
the talent capability of our business. This has resulted  
in 94% of the global workforce being discussed and  
an initial picture of the benchstrength of the organisation 
has been created.
As part of the talent reviews, succession planning 
conversations have improved with plans now including  
the roles below ExCo. This will be built out further to 
identify all business critical roles and ensure succession 
plans and accompanying development actions are in place.
To continue to strengthen our talent benchstrength and 
increase risk mitigation, the following areas were identified 
as priorities for the next phase of Henderson’s talent 
management plan: 
• the development of a Global Leaders Network aimed  
at future talent in mid to senior roles; and
• global secondments and greater career  
management support.
Nomination Committee report continued
As we grow globally, it is important to ensure we are attracting, 
developing and retaining the best people and this means 
ensuring our culture and values reflect the diversity of our  
people and the communities we operate in.
Our Human Resources policies and staff benefits aim to attract 
and retain a diverse and flexible workforce. In order to assist us  
in monitoring our progress on gender diversity, senior 
management reviews statistics on numbers and proportions of 
men and women in the workplace generally and broken down by: 
working patterns; status; length of service; turnover; region; 
division; and salary band.
We apply the same principles at Board level. Candidates for 
appointment to the Board are identified taking into account: 
• the current composition of the Board, with due regard for  
the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender;
• the need for independence;
• the strategic direction and progress of the business; and
• the geographic spread and diversity of the Group.
Sarah Arkle, Kalpana Desai and Angela Seymour-Jackson 
constitute 33% of the Board. The General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, Jacqui Irvine constitutes 11% of the ExCo.
33
67
6
2
1
2
3
2
58 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Risk management and Internal control 
We consider risk assessment and the existence of effective 
controls to be fundamental to achieving the Group’s corporate 
objectives within an acceptable risk and reward profile. The 
Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness and takes into 
account the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control  
and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued in 
September 2014. A robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Company has been carried out, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the principal risks faced by the Company and a 
description of those risks and an explanation as to how they are 
being managed or mitigated is set out in the Risk management 
section together with the Group’s viability statement.
  Read more in our Risk management section  
on pages 23 to 27
 Read the Group’s Viability Statement on page 25
The Board, via the Board Risk Committee and the Audit 
Committee, regularly reviews and monitors the Company’s  
risk management and internal control systems and principal  
risks faced by the Group via the three lines of defence model.  
In addition, an AAF 01/06 Control Report is produced annually. 
This report covers all material controls including financial, 
operational, compliance controls and risk management systems. 
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from  
this report. An annual formal review of the effectiveness of 
Henderson’s system of risk management and internal controls  
is also carried out in order to support the statements included  
in the Annual Report and Accounts. The internal control and  
risk management systems have been in place for the year  
under review and up to the date of the approval of the report  
and accounts.
  Read more in our Board Risk Committee report on  
pages 60 and 61
 Read more in our Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 65
The Board received assurances from the Chief Executive and  
the Chief Financial Officer that the financial records of the Group 
have been properly maintained and that the consolidated financial 
statements comply with the appropriate accounting standards 
and give a true and fair view of the financial position and 
performance of the Group and that the opinion has been formed 
on the basis of a sound system of risk management and internal 
control which is operating effectively (see also the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement). In addition, the ExCo reported  
to the Board on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls and the mitigation of any material business risks.
 Read the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement on page 91
Internal controls over financial reporting
Our financial reporting process has been designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the financial 
reporting and preparation of financial statements, including 
consolidated financial statements, for external purposes, in 
accordance with IFRS. This process is under the supervision  
of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and  
has appropriate internal controls to ensure its effectiveness.  
The internal controls include policies and procedures that:
• relate to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposals  
of the Group’s assets;
• provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements,  
and that the receipts and expenditures of the Group are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations of management 
and Directors; and
• provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of  
Group assets that could have a material effect on the Group’s 
financial statements.
 Read the Going Concern statement on page 90 
Governance
Accountability
Strategic report Governance
59 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board Risk Committee report
I am pleased to present the report from the Board Risk Committee 
for 2015. Although the purpose of the Committee is to assist the 
Board in the oversight of risk, it is important to note that the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees also consider certain 
key risks relating to Henderson as appropriate, at which certain 
members of the Board Risk Committee are also present.  
We believe it is important to ensure that the right information 
regarding the principal risks facing Henderson is being  
presented to the Committee and the BRC spends some time  
at each meeting discussing and identifying forward looking and 
emerging risks facing the Company, including macro economic 
and political risks, liquidity risks, regulatory risks and longer-term 
strategic risks.
Please note that our Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Chris Chaloner, 
has set out a summary of Henderson’s risk framework and profile 
which provides some useful context to the activities of the 
Committee in 2015. A summary of our principal risks and how 
these are mitigated are set out in the Risk management section 
on pages 26 and 27 .
As referred to in the Risk management section, an important 
issue has been the oversight and management of IT and cyber 
risks facing the industry and Henderson. A number of reports 
during the year were presented by the Global Head of IT & 
Operational Change as well as an informative benchmarking 
report which included a comparison of Henderson’s IT controls, 
strengths and areas of enhancement. Broadly, the report 
indicated that controls were at a good level. The Committee  
also supported the importance of the appointment of a new  
Chief Information Security Officer to assist in the mitigation of 
cyber risks facing the organisation. The Committee received a 
presentation on the information “crown jewels” and considered 
how these crown jewels were safeguarded and the Group’s risk 
appetite for loss of information. In addition, it was agreed that IT 
security updates will continue to be a focus going forward. 
Liquidity risk within funds was also an important topic over 2015. 
The Committee received a paper which set out a summary of the 
impact of reduced fixed income market liquidity on Henderson 
funds and received a report on a live business rehearsal with 
hypothetical stressed market conditions.
It is considered good practice to review the Risk Appetite 
Statement annually or more frequently should changes in the risk 
profile of the Group or the external environment necessitate this. 
The categories of risk addressed by the Risk Appetite Statement 
remained consistent with the key themes that are regarded as 
essential for the successful delivery of Henderson’s corporate 
strategy and goals. As part of the 2015 review it was noted that 
the most significant changes to the Group’s risk profile in the  
last 12 months relate to the intensity of regulatory change  
and challenge. The ICAAP was also reviewed, challenged  
and approved for recommendation to the Board. This included 
the assumptions used in the stress and scenario tests, the 
wind-down analysis, the methodology used for assessing  
the amount of capital held and the basis for and the aggregate 
amount of capital held for operational risk. 
As part of its annual timetable, the Committee considered  
and approved the Reverse Stress Test analysis. This included 
identifying scenarios that might cause Henderson’s business 
model to fail which are taken into account in the design of our  
risk management framework and control processes. It was 
agreed that the risk management framework and control 
processes are sufficiently robust for the net risk of failure  
to lie beyond the “1 in 200” year confidence interval used  
for ICAAP capital purposes. 
Membership
• Sarah Arkle (Chair)
• Kalpana Desai
• Kevin Dolan
• Robert Jeens
• Angela Seymour-Jackson
Dear Shareholder
Our strategic objectives and the key risks to our 
strategy and business model are interconnected.
Sarah Arkle
Board Risk Committee Chair
60 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Updates are also provided at each meeting regarding credit, 
operational and strategic risks, which includes a risk heat map  
for strategic risks. Risk categories are added or removed to the 
heat map depending on the probability or severity of the risk 
facing Henderson. The operational risk updates provided 
included assessments of significant operational incidents  
and near misses, and reviews of relevant external events to 
enable the Board Risk Committee to assess whether appropriate 
mitigating actions are in place.
Reports were also received regarding business continuity 
arrangements and a common framework for the management of 
crises. In this context, crisis covers a much wider range of issues 
than circumstances that might result in Henderson invoking its 
disaster recovery arrangements. It includes, for example, critical 
failures at our third party administrators, major information security 
incidents, market events that have a significant impact on our 
funds, regulatory investigations and loss of key people or teams. 
A framework for accepted risks was approved in 2015, 
introduced to provide clarity over the process and requirements 
in relation to the acceptance of risks in the context of the Group’s 
risk appetite. The policy and its application will be reviewed in 12 
months to ensure that it is operating effectively and as expected.
The Committee is also responsible for agreeing on an annual 
basis the CRO’s and Assurance function’s objectives and 
priorities and reviewing the performance against these objectives. 
Sarah Arkle
Chair of the Board Risk Committee
10 February 2016
Role of the Board Risk Committee
The purpose of the Board Risk Committee is to assist 
the Board in the oversight of risk. The Committee 
also looks to identify any forward looking and 
emerging risks that relate to the industry or 
Henderson specifically, and will refresh and monitor 
these risks and look at mitigating actions on an 
ongoing basis.
Read more information on our Group website:
www.henderson.com/ir
Henderson  
Group plc  
Board
Risk control 
environment
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration  
Committee
Board Risk  
Committee
Nomination  
Committee
ExCo
Sub-committees 
of ExCo
Strategic report Governance
61 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee report
It is vital that our continuing journey along our strategy of  
growth and globalisation is supported by an embedded and 
efficient system of internal controls and financial reporting as  
well as a challenging and independent Internal Audit function.  
An important topic for the Audit Committee during 2015 was 
therefore the external review of the Internal Audit function.
  Read more on Internal Audit function and external review  
 on page 65 
The activities of our Compliance department and broader 
regulatory developments were further areas of focus.  
Our Compliance department forms part of our second line  
of defence and advises and monitors how the Group conducts  
its business activities in accordance with global regulation and 
the wider expectations of our regulators in all countries where 
regulated business is performed.
  Read more for an explanation of the three lines of defence  
on page 25 
Regular reports were presented by the Global Head of 
Compliance, Charles Jones, to the Committee on a broad range 
of regulatory topics affecting our current business as well as on 
the impact of future regulation such as an assessment of the 
impact of MiFID II, Client Money rule changes, the FCA’s Senior 
Managers Regime, and the European Banking Authority (EBA)
Guidelines on Remuneration. In addition a project plan for 
regulatory projects from 2015 to 2017 was provided to the 
Committee. The Committee also considered correspondence 
with key regulators such as the FCA and the SEC.
The Audit Committee also received the Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer’s report and received reports on tax  
accounting matters. 
Reliability and appropriateness of the Group’s 
financial reporting
As usual, a key matter for us as a Committee to consider was the 
reliability and appropriateness of the Group’s financial reporting.
The Company has in place arrangements to ensure that  
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable as required by the UK Code and provides 
shareholders with the information necessary to assess the  
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
To assist the Board in making this decision, the Audit Committee, 
as part of the oversight of the reliability and appropriateness of the 
Group’s financial reporting, received and reviewed reports from 
management and the external auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC) relating to the Annual Report of the Group and the 
Company, as well as the Interim Report and Accounts, interim 
management statements, related disclosures and the financial 
reporting process. This included the review and approval of the 
timetable and deliverables for both the annual and interim results. 
In addition the Committee considered significant issues relating  
to the financial statements as set out on page 63.
The reports from PwC included an update on the audit plan, year 
end timetable, fees, audit quality review and an update regarding 
the integrated audit. PwC also discussed their review of the AAF 
with the Committee. 
   Read the Financial review on pages 18 to 21
The Audit Committee also received an update on new systems 
implemented in 2014 and those being implemented in 2015  
for the Finance platform, the purpose of which is to make 
improvements to the Group’s reporting environment. This  
included reviewing the overall timetable and progress made.
Membership
• Robert Jeens (Chairman)
• Sarah Arkle
• Kalpana Desai
• Tim How
All members of the Committee are independent and have 
“recent and relevant financial experience” and “financial 
expertise” as recommended by the UK Code and the ASX 
Principles. Both Robert Jeens and Kalpana Desai have 
competence in accounting and auditing as required by  
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Dear Shareholder
 The Company has in place arrangements to ensure 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable.
Robert Jeens
Audit Committee Chairman
62 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Significant issues 
As part of the review of the Annual Report, the Audit Committee 
also considered various significant issues and discussed how 
these may be addressed. These included the matters below.
Disposal of the investment in TH Real Estate
The Group completed the sale of its 40% holding in TH Real 
Estate for £84.3m on 1 June 2015, resulting in a gain of  
£12.3m which has been presented as a non-recurring item  
in the Consolidated Income Statement. This includes a small 
upward adjustment in the second half on agreement of 
completion accounts and the Committee agreed that this 
adjustment should also be categorised as a non-recurring  
item in order to maintain consistency of treatment.
Acquisition of Perennial
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of two 
boutique Australian asset managers on 1 November 2015 for 
total consideration of £35.3m. The Committee considered the 
accounting for these transactions and in particular the balance 
between the Investment Management Contracts (IMCs) and 
goodwill acquired. Judgement was required in accounting  
for the IMCs recognised of £16.1m, with forecast cash flows  
and the amortisation periods being key. This assessment was 
based upon management experience, information available  
from Perennial and industry data. Sensitivity analysis over likely 
possible changes to assumptions has also been performed  
which did not materially change the value of the IMCs. 
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing  
the reliability and appropriateness of the Group’s financial 
reporting, overseeing the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal controls, assessing the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function, reviewing the performance and independence 
of the external auditors (as well as being responsible for 
recommending their appointment, reappointment and removal) 
and reviewing the Group’s arrangements in respect of 
whistleblowing. However, ultimate responsibility for reviewing  
and approving the Annual Report and other public reports, 
declarations and statements remains with the Board. 
Read more information on our Group website:
www.henderson.com/ir
Fair, balanced and 
understandable
Significant  
matters and 
judgements
Group  
performance  
and position
Final  
dividend
Going concern  
and viability 
statement 
considerations
Matters  
considered when 
reviewing the  
Annual Report
To address these issues, in each case the Audit Committee 
received regular updates and reports from management  
which set out a summary of the issues with judgements  
or recommendations made as to the appropriate accounting 
treatment or disclosure. The Committee considered these  
and challenged management where appropriate on matters of 
judgement and the resultant recommendations. The Committee 
concluded that the judgements made in respect of the above 
matters are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have 
been included in the accounts. A further explanation of the  
above issues and how they were viewed by PwC is set out  
in their report on pages 93 to 98.
A number of areas of focus were also considered,  
which included:
(i)  the recognition of management and performance fees; and 
(ii) a goodwill and intangible assets impairment review.
The Committee, in each case, discussed these areas of focus 
with the auditors at both the planning and completion stages  
of their audit.
The Committee fully reviewed the Annual Report following  
the review of the matters and reports referred to above  
and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report,  
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Strategic report Governance
63 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 As part of the review of PwC, the Audit Committee reviewed  
and authorised details of the non-audit services provided by  
the external auditors and agreed that the provision of non-audit 
services was satisfactory and had not compromised their 
objectivity or independence.
  Read more on the services provided and fees paid to PwC  
in note 4.2 to the Financial Statements on page 114
The Head of Internal Audit and external auditors attended  
the scheduled Audit Committee meetings during the year  
and, on one occasion, met the Non-Executive Directors without  
the Executive Directors being present. Outside the framework  
of formal meetings, the Audit Committee Chairman meets and 
has regular contact with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Head of Finance, the Head of Internal Audit, the 
Global Head of Compliance and the senior engagement  
partner of our external auditors.
Review of internal controls
As part of the internal controls and oversight process,  
the Audit Committee also receives an internal controls report 
each quarter which contains an update from each of the Internal 
Audit, Legal and Compliance functions. The Internal Audit section 
of the report contained an update of outstanding audits in 
accordance with the Internal Audit Plan and the results of audits 
undertaken throughout the business, together with any findings 
and outstanding actions. The Audit Committee also received  
a list of auditable activities ranked in priority of risk. The Legal 
section sets out a summary of significant known or potential 
claims made by or against the Group. The Compliance section 
sets out a summary of any significant compliance issues facing 
the Group such as priority areas relating to a combination of 
business as usual, and other regulatory developments including 
notifications to regulators, client money and assets, regulatory 
developments and initiatives, compliance monitoring reviews, 
financial crime and updates regarding contact and meetings  
with the FCA. Where necessary, the updates included actions 
undertaken or those recommended to be undertaken  
by the Group.
Our system of internal controls requires line managers  
to confirm monthly that controls in their respective areas  
have operated effectively. These controls, and the risks which 
they are designed to mitigate, are maintained within the Group’s 
operational risk database, which in turn reflects the risk profiles  
of each part of the Group’s business.
 Read more in our Accountability section on page 59
External auditors and auditor independence
The reappointment of our external auditors, PwC, was approved 
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM. During 2015, the Audit 
Committee considered the risk and contingency plan in the  
event of the withdrawal of PwC from the market.
The audit engagement partner and senior audit team members 
are rotated every five years and no contractual obligations exist  
to restrict the choice of auditors of the Group and the Company. 
The Group will comply with the UK Code’s 10 year provision  
to tender the audit engagement when appropriate.
The Charter of Statutory Auditor Independence was also 
reviewed, which requires both the Company and the external 
auditors to take measures to safeguard both the objectivity  
and the independence of the external auditors. The Charter  
takes into account the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.  
The Charter includes those services which are deemed to be 
pre-approved, those which need prior approval and those which 
are prohibited. These measures include a prohibition regarding 
any non-audit services in respect of specific areas (e.g. 
secondments to management positions) or which could create  
a conflict or perceived conflict. It also includes information on  
the procedures for the selection, appointment and rotation of  
the external audit engagement partner. The Charter is on our 
website. The Audit Committee also reviewed the independence 
of PwC and has in place a policy on non-audit services  
to maintain auditor independence. 
Audit Committee report continued
Review of external auditors
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved PwC’s 
remuneration, engagement letter and their effectiveness 
which included an overview and cost of the services 
provided, a description of the assignments fulfilled and 
feedback from management on the quality of service. 
The Committee noted that the first year of an audit 
transition requires a significant investment of time  
from both auditors and client. There had been a learning 
period as PwC became familiar with the Henderson 
accounting processes and systems and Henderson 
understood PwC’s areas of focus and information 
requirements. It was thought that PwC had performed 
well in the following areas:
• Quality of presentation materials to management  
and the Committee
• Rigour of the audit approach and testing
• Challenge to established ideas and concepts
• Increased efficiencies were derived from PwC’s 
integrated audit approach, such as utilising the 
integrated approach to achieve higher coverage and 
more accurate testing of income as well as enabling 
PwC to gain a broader and more in depth view of  
the Group and funds
• There were learning points for both teams such as 
allocation of resources by PwC on subsidiary audits 
and Henderson improving communication between  
UK and overseas Finance areas.
64 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Internal audit and external review
Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, Fortune 
Chigwende. The function forms the third line of defence 
and exists to help the Board and senior management 
protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the 
Group by providing an independent objective assurance 
service designed to add value and improve the operations 
of the Group. The function helps the organisation meet  
its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined 
approach to challenge executive management and  
evaluate the effectiveness of risk management,  
control and governance processes.
Internal Audit’s primary objective is to provide an 
independent assurance service to the Board, Audit 
Committee and executive management on the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk 
management and internal control processes. In practice, 
this is achieved through risk-based audits of business 
activities which are designed to assess the effectiveness  
of controls. If improvements are found to be necessary, 
appropriate actions are agreed with management, reported 
to the Audit Committee and tracked to completion.
Internal Audit covers all locations and business units. 
Internal Audit is independent of management and reports 
directly to the Audit Committee. The team has unrestricted 
access to all information, systems, people and business 
areas and freedom to allocate resources and determine  
the scope of work to accomplish its audit objectives.
Internal Audit operates a risk-based audit cycle upon  
an assessment of risks within each business area. The 
annual audit plan is presented to the Audit Committee for 
review and approval. Based on Internal Audit’s continuous 
risk assessment process of the risks within each business 
areas, the annual audit plan is revised and any changes  
to the plan are presented to the Audit Committee for 
review and approval. Internal Audit evaluates the  
design and operating effectiveness of the system of 
internal control and risk management, agreeing actions for 
improvements with the business unit and the appropriate 
ExCo member. In addition, the Head of Internal Audit 
provides an overall opinion annually on the internal control 
environment to the Audit Committee.
During 2015, Independent Audit Limited carried out  
a review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function 
at Henderson. The work involved interviews with Internal 
Audit’s key stakeholders, including all the members of  
the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and 
other senior executives and management. All members  
of the Internal Audit team were interviewed and assessed 
as part of this review, and Independent Audit Limited also 
reviewed relevant documentation such as audit plans, 
reports and working papers. The Committee was 
reassured that the quality of the work was good, and  
that the function is effective. Some recommendations 
arose out of the review, and the Audit Committee and  
the ExCo also met with Independent Audit and formulated 
an action plan which was presented to and approved  
by the Audit Committee. 
Conflicts of Interest Committee
In investment management, a pre-requisite of integrity in  
the conduct of business is proper management of conflicts  
of interest. As well as being good business management, 
Henderson believes that proper management of conflicts  
of interest is central to our mission of delivering excellent 
performance and service to our clients. 
The Conflicts of Interest Committee (CC) is a sub-committee  
of the Audit Committee and is responsible for reviewing and 
overseeing the Group’s arrangements for identifying and 
managing conflicts of interest and ensuring the best interests  
of its clients are considered at all times. In particular, the CC  
has responsibility for:
• overseeing the Group’s culture, awareness and training  
in relation to conflicts of interest;
• overseeing the policies and procedures designed to ensure 
clients’ interests are considered in the business conduct of  
the Group and its governance;
• overseeing the Group’s Conflicts of Interest Policy and related 
policies, ensuring these adhere to regulatory requirements  
and have regard to industry best practice;
• reviewing conflict identification and controls implemented  
to mitigate conflicts of interest; and
• reviewing appropriate management information to determine 
whether conflicts of interest are being effectively mitigated 
and/or managed.
During 2015 the CC received regular reports and summary 
management information on the key areas where conflicts may 
potentially arise.  It also continued its programme of thematic 
reviews including presentations on and discussion of the Group’s 
activities in the USA and on Operations and third party service 
providers.  The committee also considered the prospective 
impact of MiFID II on payment for research and the post-RDR 
pricing of UK retail funds.
Robert Jeens
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 February 2016
Strategic report Governance
65 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Over the course of 2015, the share of the Group’s listed  
holdings has migrated from a 67% Australian listing: 33% UK 
listing, closer to an equal weighting between the two. During this 
period, Capital Group of Companies (Capital Group) on the UK 
register and Commonwealth Bank Group on the Australian 
register, moved to greater than a 3% holding in the Group.  
JCP Investment Partners and Perpetual Investments – on the 
Australian share register – have fallen below the disclosable 
interests’ threshold.
In the course of the year, our Executive Directors conducted  
over 200 meetings with institutional shareholders in London, 
Edinburgh, Sydney, Melbourne, Singapore, Hong Kong, New 
Y ork, Chicago and Toronto. Meetings focused on progress  
with our growth and globalisation strategy, fee margin trends, 
management of our cost base, operating leverage, uses of cash 
and capital, updates on announced acquisitions, our £25m  
share buyback programme and the impact of increasing  
industry regulation.
The Board regularly receives feedback on shareholder sentiment 
and sell-side analysts’ views of the Group and the wider industry. 
In October, a partner from Capital Group, our newest substantial 
shareholder, addressed the Board. The Board welcomed the 
opportunity to learn more about Capital Group’s interest  
in Henderson and their broader view on the industry.
In the course of the year, Henderson gives four scheduled 
updates to the market in addition to our Annual General Meeting. 
We have introduced two additional quarterly market briefings 
which coincide with the release of the quarterly trading 
statements to provide the investment community with more 
regular contact with management, particularly for Australian 
investors, and to facilitate understanding of the business  
and its dynamics.
The Investor Relations team and management have frequent 
contact with the 25 sell-side analysts who follow Henderson.  
In April 2015, we began to share analyst consensus collated by 
the Investor Relations team with shareholders, analysts and other 
stakeholders who signed up to our distribution list. In September, 
we moved to improve our disclosure and transparency with the 
market in line with ASX best practice by publishing consensus  
on our website. 
The Senior Independent Director, Mr How, engaged with the 
Group’s largest 20 UK and Australian shareholders, as well as 
the proxy advisory agencies, as part of the 2015 remuneration 
consultation. Through the course of the consultations, Mr How 
discussed the Group’s remuneration philosophy, policies and the 
Directors’ proposed remuneration with shareholders, welcoming 
the opportunity to hear their feedback on these and wider 
matters. Mr How also met Capital Group in the US with  
the Board as explained above.
Further information regarding the Group’s shareholders can  
be found on page 150 in the Shareholder information section.
Henderson shareholder base (%)
97
Total Institutional
Total Retail
3
Henderson shareholder base (%)
47
ASX listing
LSE listing
53
Relations with shareholders
66 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Statement from the Chairman
The key highlights are as follows:
• The Company continued to perform strongly in 2015,  
and has delivered strong results for shareholders for three 
consecutive years, achieving levels of investment performance 
and net asset flows materially in excess of those of our primary 
competitors and the wider asset management sector in general
• Total AUM at 31 December 2015 up 13.3% to £92.0bn 
(2014: £81.2bn), including the net impact (net outflow)  
of disposals and acquisitions of (£0.9bn)
• Achievement of record net inflows of £8.5bn (increase of  
20% vs 2014)
• Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations up  
17% to £220.0m (2014: £187 .8m)
• Diluted continuing underlying EPS up 17% to 17 .2 pence  
per share (2014: 14.7 pence per share)
• This continuing strong performance has been reflected  
in the Company’s share price which stood at £3.10 as at 31 
December 2015 compared to £2.14 as of 31 December 2014 
(£1.32 as at 31 December 2012*)
• Total dividend up 14.4% at 10.3 pence per share (2014: 9.00 
pence per share)
• Strengthening of the Group’s regulatory capital position from  
a significant deficit to a surplus, preparing the Group for the 
expiry of the investment firm consolidation waiver in April 2016 
• The success of key strategic projects, including the sale of  
the remaining stake in TH Real Estate and the acquisition of 
the Perennial and 90 West investment businesses in Australia.
Note:
* Beginning of the reference period for L TIP 2013.
I am pleased to present our 2015 report on Directors’ remuneration 
for your approval at our Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016 
in the UK and Australia.
We comply with the UK reporting requirements and the ASX 
Principles relating to Directors’ remuneration on a voluntary  
basis. Y ou may recall that we submitted our remuneration  
policy to shareholders as part of last year’s reporting cycle  
and indicated that, subject to shareholder support, it would  
be our intention for that policy to apply for up to three years. 
Given the support for that policy at last year’s AGM (84.2%  
in favour) and the fact that no material changes to that policy  
are proposed, we therefore do not propose to re-submit the 
policy for re-approval this year. The following section is therefore 
dedicated to the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which provides 
information on how the policy has been implemented during the 
year, and in respect of which we are offering shareholders the 
usual advisory vote at our 2016 AGM.
2015 performance and key pay outcomes
In a desire to present the key performance highlights and reward 
outcomes upfront and in a single place, I would like to draw your 
attention to our new At a Glance section which is presented on 
pages 70 and 71. 
Membership
• Tim How (Chairman)
• Sarah Arkle
• Kevin Dolan
• Angela Seymour-Jackson
Dear Shareholder
Exceptional company performance over the past three years has resulted in strong reportable reward outcomes  
from our long-term plans – we firmly believe that this is the embodiment of the ‘pay for performance’ culture that  
is the cornerstone of our remuneration policy.
Tim How
Remuneration Committee 
Chairman
Strategic report Governance
67 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 From a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) perspective, we have 
delivered upper-quartile performance for our shareholders  
over the last three years against the market indices, and even 
upper-decile against certain indices, as shown in the table below:
Performance against indices/peer groups in the period 
2013 – 2015 (%)
1
Henderson 
TSR 
growth
Median TSR 
growth of 
indices/peer 
group
Percentile 
ranking
2
 
FTSE 350 161.7 45.5 92.6
FTSE 350 General 
Financial Services Index
3
161.7 78.6 88.4
ASX 100 244.8 41.0 99.0
Period 2011 – 2015
FTSE 350 General 
Financial Services Index 
(2011-2015)
4
184.3 80.3 87.0
While the continuing success of the business has required a 
concerted and co-operative team effort across the Company, this 
is due in no small part to the energy and strategic insight of our 
Executive Directors who continue to drive the Group with clarity, 
purpose and vision. The variable remuneration awarded to them 
reflects their strong contribution balanced against the desire to 
deliver attractive returns for our shareholders as reflected in the 
increased underlying profit before tax from continuing operations.
Taking into account the performance highlighted above, I have 
summarised the key 2015 remuneration outcomes below which 
are shown graphically overleaf:
• Following a performance assessment as outlined on page  
76, the Remuneration Committee (Committee) awarded  
to the Chief Executive a performance related Short-Term 
Incentive (STI) of £1,560,000 (a 5% reduction in the award 
granted for 2014). This represents a pay-out of 371% of  
base salary (74% of the prevailing maximum STI opportunity  
of 500% of base salary)
• Following a performance assessment as outlined on page  
76 the Committee initially awarded the Chief Financial Officer 
a performance related bonus of £759,000, representing a 
pay-out of 223% of base salary (74% of the maximum STI 
opportunity of 300% of base salary). However, the Chief 
Financial Officer proposed that this bonus be adjusted in the 
interest of consistency of reward outcomes across the wider 
business. As a result he will receive an STI award in the sum of 
£650,000 (which is flat versus the prior year). This represents 
a pay-out of 191% of base salary (64% of the maximum STI 
opportunity of 300% of base salary)
• To reflect shareholder expectations, the Committee materially 
enhanced its STI disclosures within the 2014 report and we 
have further increased our disclosure around STI outcomes  
to include actual targets (on a retrospective basis). Additional 
detail on the rationale for these awards is provided in the 
Annual report on remuneration on pages 72 to 84. The 
Committee believes these disclosures provide shareholders 
with appropriate levels of clarity, to enable them to judge  
the linkage between performance (Company and individual) 
and remuneration outcomes, whilst having due regard to 
commercial sensitivity considerations. The Committee will 
continue to monitor shareholder expectation and evolving 
market practice in this regard and will provide further 
disclosures as deemed appropriate
• The performance period for the L TIP 2013 ended on 31 
December 2015. Henderson’s relative TSR performance 
(accounting for 95% of the total award) was positioned at  
the 90th percentile
1,3
 relative to the peer group. This resulted  
in the maximum vesting of 95%. Taking into account 
performance against the additional risk and sustainability 
element (3% out of the available 5% awarded), the overall 
vesting level for L TIP 2013 awards is 98% of the maximum
• The performance period for the final tranche of the ESOP 
2011 ended on 31 December 2015. Henderson’s relative  
TSR performance was positioned at the 86th percentile
1,4
 
relative to the peer group. This resulted in matching shares 
being awarded under ESOP 2011 of two shares per share 
held in the plan
• It should be noted that the Committee has approved an 
extension of the mandatory deferral policy which will bring  
a greater number of employees up to the current maximum 
deferral rate of 50% in respect of the 2015 performance year. 
Furthermore, the maximum deferral rate will be increased  
to 60% above certain thresholds for 2016 which may  
impact Executive Directors.
Further context on single figure disclosures
It is important to provide context in relation to the Long-Term 
Incentive (LTI) outcome that is reported in the single figure 
disclosure for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer  
for 2015. This disclosure is materially impacted by payments 
under two historic L TI awards (referred to above), being the 
2013-15 Long-Term Incentive Plan (L TIP 2013) and the 2011 
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP 2011), the last tranche 
of which vested in 2015. 
Further contextual information in relation to these plans and 
associated outcomes in relation to the Chief Executive is set  
out below:
• L TIP 2013: The high vesting (98%), together with the material 
increase (134%) in the share price over the reference period, 
resulted in a plan outcome in the amount of £3.2m (including 
dividend equivalents) which is reported in the 2015 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report 
• ESOP 2011: Similarly, the number of matching shares (two 
per share held in the plan), together with the material increase 
(77%) in the share price over the reference period, resulted  
in a plan outcome in the amount of £1.2m. 
The combined impact of the above is that 2015 remuneration 
disclosures for the Chief Executive will reflect LTIs to the value  
of circa £4.4m (2014: £2.2m). 
To put the Chief Executive’s L TI into context:
• This amount includes £1.2m relating to the final payment  
under a one off legacy plan (ESOP 2011) which will not  
be a recurring amount
• Circa 60% (£2.6m) of the total disclosed amount relates  
to share price growth and dividend equivalents over the 
relevant performance periods of the underlying plans  
as illustrated in the graphic opposite (Figure 1)
• This amount represents less than 0.2% of the returns 
generated for shareholders over the last three years.
It should also be noted that L TIP outcomes in prior years have 
been materially lower, with the prior three L TIP plans vesting  
at 0% (2010), 78% (2011) and 43% (2012) respectively, 
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual statement from the Chairman continued
68 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 appropriately reflecting overall Company performance over those 
prior performance periods. As a Committee, we firmly believe that 
this is the embodiment of the ‘pay for performance’ culture that  
is the cornerstone of our remuneration policy. 
Similar analysis also applies to the Chief Financial Officer in 
relation to his reported L TIP 2013 award, with the reportable 
amount being £1.1m for L TIP 2013 (2014: £0.74m), although  
he did not participate in ESOP 2011.
Key pay decisions for 2016
• In line with approved remuneration policy, we propose to 
increase the annual base salaries of both the Chief Executive 
and the Chief Financial Officer by 3%, to £432,500 and 
£350,000 respectively, which is in line with the average 
increase across the wider employee group.
• Awards are proposed to be made to the Chief Executive and 
the Chief Financial Officer at the maximum opportunity (500% 
and 300% of base salary, respectively) under L TIP 2016. The 
number of L TIP options will be determined by reference to  
the share price at the date of award. 
• Following a review of prevailing market rates for non-executive 
directors’ fees:
•  The Chairman’s fee, which has not been increased 
since 2014, is proposed to be increased by 10%  
to £220,000 (5% on an annualised basis)
•  The annual fee levels for Non-Executive Directors 
(which have also not been increased since 2014)  
have been increased on average by 6.4% (3.2% on  
an annualised basis).
 Further details are provided on pages 78 to 80.
Notes: 
1. The TSR figures in the table opposite are measured on a ‘point-to-point’  
basis between the ends of the relevant years. It should be noted that for the 
purpose of the L TIP plans, the percentile ranking is determined by reference  
to average TSR over three months prior to the start and end of the relevant 
performance period.
2. For avoidance of doubt, the percentile rankings expressed in this table and 
elsewhere in the report should be interpreted with 0% representing lowest 
rank and 100% representing highest rank.
3. For the purpose of L TIP 2013, the percentile ranking is 90.1.
4. For the purpose of ESOP 201 1, the percentile ranking is 86.4.
As demonstrated during the course of 2014 and again this year, 
we are committed to engaging openly with shareholders and 
actively incorporate feedback in our remuneration policies and 
practices. We have engaged in written correspondence and, 
where possible, dialogue with our major shareholders in the 
period prior to publication of this report. The Remuneration 
Committee would ask shareholders to consider and approve  
the Annual report on remuneration set out in the following  
pages at our AGM on 28 April 2016.
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 February 2016
2015 2014 2015 2014
Fixed
STI
LTIP
Other
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
£’000
Andrew Formica Roger Thompson
2015
42%
58%
37%
63%
2014
Fixed
STI
LTI (face value at award) Other
Growth/dividends
Andrew Formica
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
£’000
Figure 1: Single total figure of remuneration
Proportion of LTIP relating to  
share price growth/dividends
Strategic report Governance
69 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ remuneration report
At a glance
The Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 
April 2015 and will remain in force until 2018 unless material changes are proposed 
in the intervening period. For ease of reference, a summary of the Company’s key 
remuneration principles and remuneration elements is set out below.
Remuneration principles
Our remuneration policy remains focused on pay for performance 
and in driving shareholder returns over the long term, while 
prudently managing risk. In doing so, the Committee and the 
Board recognise that our remuneration policies and practices 
must enable us to attract, motivate and retain exceptional people, 
while aligning their interests with those of shareholders. The 
Committee works closely with the Board Risk Committee to 
ensure that performance is not achieved by taking unnecessary 
risks that fall outside the Board’s risk appetite.
The key drivers of our remuneration philosophy and strategy  
are to: 
• Attract and retain individuals critical to the long-term success 
of the Company by providing total reward opportunities which, 
subject to performance, are competitive within our defined 
markets both in terms of quantum and structure, and reflect 
individual contribution to business performance and sound  
risk management
• Maintain an appropriate balance between both fixed  
and variable pay, and short and long-term elements of 
remuneration, to minimise the probability of excessive risk 
taking and to align with the Company’s strategic objectives  
and time horizons
• Reinforce a strong performance culture through rewards  
which are differentiated based on Company, division, team  
and individual performance
• Align management interests with those of the Company’s 
shareholders and clients through building appropriate  
share and fund ownership over time
• Ensure that reward related processes are compliant with 
industry regulations, legislation and market best practice  
and have effective risk management controls.
Our remuneration principles are reinforced by achieving an 
appropriate balance of the following remuneration elements:
Base pay Core fixed pay element to attract and retain 
employees with the personal attributes, skills 
and experience required to deliver our strategy.
Benefits Provision of competitive, cost and tax effective 
benefits, geared towards the promotion of 
employee wellbeing, to attract and retain 
employees with the personal attributes, skills 
and experience required to deliver our strategy.
Pension Provision of market competitive pension 
arrangements, in a way that does not create an 
unacceptable level of financial risk or cost to the 
Group, to assist with employee recruitment and 
retention, and to assist employees in building 
wealth for their retirement years.
Short-Term 
Incentive 
(STI) plan
Reward performance on an annual  
basis, by reference to Company financial 
performance and individual strategic and 
personal contribution, thereby aligning employee 
interests with the annual business plan and  
to the interests of shareholders. A material 
proportion of the STI award is deferred to  
satisfy regulatory requirements in addition  
to aligning the interests of the employee with 
those of the shareholders and clients via mutual 
linkage to the Group share price and investment 
performance of selected Henderson funds.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
Supports superior business performance over 
the longer term and aligns Executive Directors’ 
and shareholders’ interests via the linkage to 
TSR and to other long-term performance 
measures which are aligned to the achievement 
of the Company’s long-term strategy.
Our performance 
The key performance outcomes which have been taken 
into account in the assessment of performance and 
reward for our Executive Directors are as follows 
(further details are provided on pages 73 to 79):
  
Read our Directors’ remuneration policy,  
approved at the 2015 AGM, at henderson.com/IR
70 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Henderson vs FTSE General Financials TSR 2013-2015 (%)
250
150
200
100
50
0
-50
210
186
181
162
156
150
141
127
102 102
95
90
84 83
75 74 73 72 71
65
27
23 -13
-18
-4
48
S&U
London Stock ex.Group
Provident Financial
Henderson Group
Man Group
3I Group
Hargreaves Lansdown
Intermediate Capital GP.
Charles Taylor
IG Group Holdings
ICAP
Schroders
Rathbone Brothers
Jupiter Fund Management
Tullett Prebon
City of London Inv. GP.
Close Brothers Group
IP Group
SVG Capital
Brewin Dolphin
Paragon GP. of Cos.
Investec
F&C Asset Management
Camellia
Aberdeen Asset Man
Ashmore Group
International PSNL. Fin.
-17
Non-financial 
Strategic objectives (assessed as 78% achievement, 19.5% out of 
possible 25%)
• Positive progress against the five year strategy, which remains 
well communicated and understood by investors
• Sale of the remaining 40% stake in TH Real Estate at  
an attractive price
• Build out of our Australian proposition via the acquisition of 90 
West and Perennial, increasing Group AUM by £5.3bn or 6%  
• Strengthening of the Group’s regulatory capital position from  
a significant deficit to a surplus and enabling the £25m share 
buyback programme which has been well received by 
shareholders
• Further strengthening of new capabilities, notably US High 
Yield, Emerging Markets and Agriculture
For details of personal contributions of the Executive Directors, 
see pages 76 to 77 .
Henderson vs ASX 100 TSR 2013-2015 (%)
250
150
200
50
100
0
-50
-100
top 10
1
20 to 100
1
248
245
182
174
169
162 161
134
127
121
95
64
53
44
33
-29
-51
-90
10
Aristocrat Leisure
Henderson Group cdi.
Challenger
Qantas Airways
Macquarie Group
Ramsay Health Care
Harvey Norman 
Holdings
Seek
Bank of QLND.
Toll Holdings -
 delist.29/05/15
Treasury Wine 
Estates
Flight Centre 
Travel gp.
Westpac Banking
Duet Group
Alumina
Westﬁeld Group 
Dead - delist.
Orica
Regis 
Resources
Arrium
Note:
1. For illustrative purposes, the top 1 0 ASX 100 companies, ranked by TSR, are shown plus the firms occupying each subsequent decile.
STI performance measures
Financial
Weighting Target
2
Actual 
outcome
Percentage  
of max
3
Weighted 
achievement  
of max  
(out of 50%)
Return on equity (ROE) pre tax (pre variable compensation
1
) growth vs 2014 10% 5% 2.1% 42.8%
35.9%
Underlying pre tax profit (pre variable compensation
1
) growth vs 2014 30% 5% 16.6% 83.2%
Revenue growth (management fees only) vs 2014 15% 5% 16.1% 80.3%
Operating margin (pre variable compensation
1
) growth vs 2014 15% 0.5% 0.5% 49.8%
One and three year investment performance 15% 70% 81.5% 75.6%
Net inflows 15% 6% 15.0% 78.5%
1. These measures exclude performance fee revenues and all variable compensation. 
2. The figure shown is the target at which 50% of the maximum STI award (500% and 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
respectively) would be awarded.
3. This shows actual achievement as a percentage of the outcome at which the maximum STI award would be awarded.
Strategic report Governance
71 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration 
Role and membership of the Remuneration 
Committee
The Committee reviews and approves, where appropriate, the 
Group’s remuneration plans and overall Human Resources (HR) 
policies and practices. 
Its key responsibilities are to:
• Approve the Group’s Remuneration Policy Statement and  
the remuneration terms and arrangements for Code Staff in 
accordance with the relevant regulatory remuneration codes
• Approve the policy and terms of the Group’s employee  
and executive share incentive schemes
• Determine annually the remuneration of the Chairman,  
the Executive Directors and the direct reports of the  
Chief Executive
• Consider pay levels and employment conditions  
for all employees. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed 
annually, are available on the Company’s website (www.
henderson.com/ir).
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive 
Directors. In 2015, it consisted of Tim How (Committee 
Chairman), Sarah Arkle, Kevin Dolan and Angela  
Seymour-Jackson. In practice, all Non-Executive Directors, 
including the Chairman and the Chief Executive, attend  
all Committee meetings, although they do not attend  
if their own remuneration is under consideration.
The Committee meets regularly and takes advice on a range  
of matters, including the scale and composition of total 
remuneration payable to executives with similar qualifications, 
skills and experience holding similar roles and with similar levels 
of responsibility in comparable FTSE companies. In addition to 
regular agenda items in 2015, the Committee took advice on  
the potential remuneration impacts of the EBA guidelines on 
Sound Remuneration under CRD IV, FCA guidance on the 
implementation of UCITS V regulations in the UK, the HMRC 
Employee Benefit Trust settlement opportunity and market 
practice in relation to deferral regimes, share plans and changing 
pension practice and legislation.
In 2015, the Committee was supported by the Chief Financial 
Officer, the General Counsel, the Global Head of HR, the Head 
of Reward and the Chief Risk Officer. The Global Head of HR 
and Head of Reward attend all meetings, except when their  
own remuneration is under consideration.
The Committee Chairman and the Chief Executive make 
remuneration recommendations for the ExCo, members of  
which report to the Chief Executive. The Chairman is also 
consulted about the remuneration of the Executive Directors.  
The remuneration of the Chief Executive is recommended by  
the Committee Chairman and the Chairman, and approved by  
the Committee.
No Executive Director, other member of the ExCo or Non-
Executive Director, is involved in any decision on their  
own remuneration.
The Committee held five meetings during the year. There was  
full attendance at all meetings.
External advisers
The Committee does not retain a formal appointed remuneration 
adviser although it receives consultancy advice from Deloitte  
LLP (Deloitte) on an ad hoc basis. Deloitte do not attend all 
Committee meetings. During 2015 Deloitte have provided advice 
to the Committee on regulatory matters, competitive market 
benchmarking, emerging market practices, remuneration plan 
design and approach to shareholder engagement activities. 
Deloitte have no other connection to the Company.
Contents
72  Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee
72 External advisers
73  Total remuneration
73  Fixed pay and benefits
73 Pension entitlements and contributions 
74  STI for the year ended 31 December 2015
77   L TI vesting in respect of performance periods  
ended in 2015
78   Y ear-on-year percentage increase in the remuneration 
of the Chief Executive
79  Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
79  Chief Executive remuneration over last seven years
79  Relative importance of the spend on pay
79  How the policy will be applied in 2016
82 Outstanding L TI and other share scheme awards
83   Directors’ personal shareholding and beneficial  
share interests
83 Shares personally held
83  Payments within the year to past Directors
84  External directorships
84  Statement of shareholder voting
72 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Total remuneration
The tables below report the single figure remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. The amounts 
shown represent earned remuneration in accordance with the regulations and are shown graphically in the Committee Chairman’s 
statement on page 69.
Single total figure of remuneration – Executive Directors (audited information)
Executive Director Base pay Benefits Pension STI LTI Other Total
£’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Andrew Formica 420 403 5 3 37 18 1,560 1,650 4,427 2,176 20 65 6,469 4,315
Roger Thompson 338 330 2 1 27 15 650 650 1,058 741 7 3 2,082 1,740
Notes:
•  Remuneration of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors is for the calendar year or , if applicable, from the date of appointment or to the date of resignation.
• Benefits consist of the provision of life assurance, critical illness insurance, private medical insura nce and lunch allowance.
•  Pension includes any additional employer contribution in respect of a Self-Invested Personal Pension and as applicable, a cash allowance taken in lieu of contribution  
to the Company pension scheme.
• It should be noted that, as part of a wider change covering all members of the Group defined contribution pen sion plan, the internal scheme earnings cap was removed 
with effect from 1 April 2015., such that contributions for all members, including Executive Directors, are now based on their full basic salary.
•  STI is the gross annual discretionary award for the performance year before mandatory deferral is applied.
•  The split of deferral between Group shares and fund interests is given on page 77 .
•  L TI includes L TIP awards vesting during the year (including dividend equivalents), SAYE, RSP and ESOP matching shares which vested during the year.
•  Other comprises amounts paid in relation to dividends earned on beneficial interests in Company share plans.
•  The 2014 figures for Andrew Formica have been restated to reflect the actual share prices on vesting of both the L TIP and ESOP awards (£2.90/£2.85 for L TIP/
ESOP respectively, versus a forecast price of £2.08). The 2014 L TI figure for Roger Thompson relates to an RSP award which vested in December 2014 and therefore 
does not need to be restated.
Single total figure of remuneration – Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Director Fees Benefits/expenses
£’000 2015 2014 2015 2014
Chairman
Richard Gillingwater 200 200 3 4
Other Non-Executive Directors
Sarah Arkle 90 90 0 1
Kevin Dolan 70 70 7 7
Tim How 103 103 0 0
Robert Jeens 93 93 0 0
Angela Seymour-Jackson 70 66 3 1
Kalpana Desai 18 n/a 7 n/a
Note: 
• Kalpana Desai’s fees reflect service since her appointment on 5 October 2015.
Fixed pay and benefits
The Chief Executive’s base pay remained unchanged throughout 2015 at £420,000. The Chief Financial Officer’s base pay was 
increased by 3% to £340,000 with effect from 1 April 2015, which was in line with average increases awarded to the wider employee 
population. The fixed pay shown in the table represents the amounts paid during the year.
The benefits consist of life insurance, critical illness insurance and private medical insurance, plus a lunch allowance, in line with benefits 
provided to other employees.
Pension entitlements and contributions
The Executive Directors participate in the non-contributory section of the Henderson Group Pension Scheme that provides defined 
contribution benefits on the same basis as other employees. The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are each entitled to  
a contribution, currently 10.5% of base pay, into the Group’s defined contribution pension plan. Contributions to the Scheme were 
previously limited by the operation of the annual Scheme earnings cap which was £143,600 until 31 March 2015, after which, as set  
out in the 2014 report, the Scheme earnings cap was removed for all participants in the defined contribution plan (including Executive 
Directors). Due to the application of HMRC pension limits (Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance), both the Chief Executive and  
the Chief Financial Officer elected to take the cash alternative during 2015. 
In 2015, the Group contributed £7 ,445 to Andrew Formica’s pension plan in the period up to 30 April 2015 and paid a pension cash 
allowance of £29,400 to cover the period after that date. In addition, the Group contributed £3,770 to the Chief Financial Officer’s 
pension plan in the period up to 31 March 2015 and paid a pension cash allowance of £22,950 to cover the period after that date.
Strategic report Governance
73 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STI for the year ended 31 December 2015
For the purpose of determining the 2015 bonus, the Committee assessed the performance of the business overall and of each  
of the Executive Directors.
Financial performance
The Group delivered financial results which were a significant improvement on those for 2014 – which was in itself a record year –  
and exceeded those set out in the 2015 business plan. This was even in the context of mixed market conditions during the year.  
The key financial highlights are summarised in the Committee Chairman’s statement and the At a Glance section on pages 70 to 71.
The overall assessment of financial performance under the STI scorecard is a total score of 71.9% (35.9%
1
 out of a possible 50%  
as shown in the table on page 71).
Strategic and personal contributions
During the year, the progress on business strategy exceeded expectations with a number of strategic initiatives being driven  
by the Executive Directors including:
• 2nd positive year of progress against the five year growth and globalisation strategy, which remains well communicated  
and understood by investors
• The sale of the remaining 40% stake in the TH Real Estate joint venture at an attractive price
• The build out of our Australian proposition via the acquisition of the 90 West and Perennial purchases which has increased  
Group AUM from Australian domiciled clients by £5.3bn or 6% of continuing Group AUM
• Strengthening of the Group’s regulatory capital position from a significant deficit to a surplus, preparing the Group for the expiry  
of the Company’s investment firm consolidation waiver in April 2016 and enabling a £25m share buyback programme which has  
been well received by investors
• Further strengthening of new capabilities (such as US High Yield, Emerging Markets and Agriculture) as reflected in strong investment 
performance and in flows within those areas.
The Executive Directors each exceeded their agreed personal objectives.
In particular, Andrew Formica has:
• Delivered on the Group’s growth and globalisation strategy, with strong results across all aspects of the plan
• Maintained strong leadership, despite a senior departure during 2015, and rationalised the ExCo to enhance its cohesiveness  
and agility
• As Chief Executive, directed the Perennial acquisition successfully to close in November 2015 
• Together with the Chief Financial Officer, been a key driver of the Company’s People Strategy as reflected in consistently low turnover 
rates and staff engagement scores which significantly outscore sector benchmarks
• Maintained and enhanced strong and enduring relationships with regulators
• Co-chaired the Investment 2020 programme, established in 2012
• From an external perspective, played a key role within the Investment Association and been appointed as a Non-Executive Director  
at Hammerson plc, both of which enable him to provide valuable insights and bring external perspectives to the management  
of the Company.
Roger Thompson has:
• Delivered on the Group’s growth and globalisation strategy, with strong results across all aspects of the plan 
• Following implementation of the first phase of a new global finance platform in 2014, overseen the stabilisation and embedding  
of the new platform including delivery of the Purchase-to-Pay and Reporting workstreams, to materially enhance business as usual  
and reporting capabilities during 2015
• Together with the Chief Executive, been a key driver of the Company’s People Strategy as reflected in consistently low turnover  
rates and staff engagement scores which significantly outscore sector benchmarks
• Successfully implemented succession plans in place for two of his senior team following their departures, managing the departures 
with minimum disruption to the business
• Continued to develop his good working relationship with investors and analysts, travelling globally to deliver the key messages behind 
the 2014 full year and 2015 interim results
• As an ambassador for Henderson, spoken at a variety of external events. 
Note:
1. This represents the contribution towards the maximum STI opportunity (out of a maximum 50% relating to financial measures) = weighting x achievement x 50%.
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
74 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
Strategic contribution Achievement
----------------------------------------- Progress against the five year strategy ------------------------------------ Strong progress
----------------------------------------- Completion of sale of remaining TH Real Estate stake ------------------ Fully achieved
----------------------------------------- Completion of Perennial and 90 West acquisitions ---------------------- Fully achieved
----------------------------------------- Continuing geographical and capability expansion ----------------------- Strong progress
----------------------------------------- Strengthening of the Company’s capital position ------------------------- Strong progress
Overall assessment 78% Overall assessment 78%
Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 19.5% Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 19.5%
Personal contribution Personal contribution
Delivering against strategic plan Exceptional Delivering against strategic plan Exceptional
Strong leadership contribution Strong progress Finance platform Strong progress
Direction of Perennial/90  
West transactions
Fully achieved
Direction of Perennial/90 West  
transactions
Fully achieved
Contribution to People Strategy Exceptional progress Contribution to People Strategy Exceptional progress
Regulatory relationships Strong progress
Contribution to investor relations/ 
communications
Strong progress
Investment 2020 programme Strong contribution External ambassador Strong contribution
External insights/perspectives Strong contribution
Overall assessment 75% Overall assessment 76%
Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 18.8% Weighted assessment (out of 25%) 19%
The individual STI outcomes, relative to the maximum STI opportunity (500%/300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer respectively) are shown graphically on the following page.
Strategic report Governance
75 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Weighting
25.0%
25.0%
50.0%
5%
5%
0.5%
70%
6%
n/a
n/a
5%
2.1%
16.1%
0.5%
81.5%
15.0%
n/a
n/a
16.6%
Performance 2015 – Chief Executive
Achievement
vs max
Weighted
achievement
vs max
Contribution 
to bonus 
(% of salary)
42.8%
80.3%
83.2%
49.8%
35.9%
(out of 
maximum 
of 50%)
179.7%
75.6%
78.5%
78.0%
75.0%
19.5% 
(25%)
18.8% 
(25%)
74.2%
97.5%
93.8%
370.9%
Target (50% 
of maximum)
Actual 
outcome Threshold Maximum
0 25 50 75 100
ROE growth
Management fee growth
Operating margin growth
Investment performance
Flows
Strategic objectives
Personal objectives
Target
Underlying pre-tax proﬁt growth
The Committee determined the Chief Executive’s bonus against a balanced scorecard of:
•  financial measures (net flows, one and three year investment performance, and growth in operating margin, underlying profit befor e tax, revenue and ROE); and
•  non-financial measures (strategic contribution and performance against personal objectives).
The targets are set as part of the annual planning process overseen and ultimately approved by the Board. The T arget represents the planned outcome for the Group  
with Maximum aligned with the stretch target and Threshold representing a minimum requirement for any incentive bonus to be paid. The same process is used to guide 
incentive decisions more widely across the ExCo.
The performance against each of these measures is set out in the graphic above. The weighted outcome of these measures as a percentage of maximum bonus 
opportunity (500% x salary for 2015) resulted in an aggregate bonus equivalent to 371% of salary (i.e. £1.56m) prior to any adjustments determined by the Committee  
at its discretion.
Weighting
25.0%
25.0%
50.0%
5%
5%
0.5%
70%
6%
n/a
n/a
5%
2.1%
16.1%
0.5%
81.5%
15.0%
n/a
n/a
16.6%
Performance 2015 – Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Target (50% 
of maximum)
Actual 
outcome
Achievement
vs max
Weighted
achievement
vs max
Contribution 
to bonus 
(% of salary)
42.8%
80.3%
83.2%
49.8%
35.9% 107.8%
75.6%
78.5%
78.0%
76.0%
74.4%
58.5%
57.0%
223.3%
19.5% 
(25%)
19.0% 
(25%)
(out of 
maximum 
of 50%)
Threshold Maximum
0 25 50 75 100
ROE growth
Management fee growth
Operating margin growth
Investment performance
Flows
Strategic objectives
Personal objectives
Target
Underlying pre-tax proﬁt growth
The Committee determined the CFO’s bonus against a balanced scorecard of:
•  financial measures (net flows, one and three year investment performance, and growth in operating margin, underlying profit befor e tax, revenue and ROE); and 
•  non-financial measures (strategic contribution and performance against personal objectives).
The targets are set as part of the annual planning process overseen and ultimately approved by the Board. The T arget represents the planned outcome for the Group  
with Maximum aligned with the stretch target and Threshold representing a minimum requirement for any incentive bonus to be paid. The same process is used to guide 
incentive decisions more widely across the ExCo.
The performance against each of these measures is set out in the graphic above. The weighted outcome of these measures as a percentage of maximum bonus 
opportunity (300% x salary for 2015) resulted in an aggregate bonus equivalent to 223% of salary (i.e. £759,000) prior to any adjustments determined by the Committee 
at its discretion.
In a further enhancement to prior year disclosures, the T arget for each financial metric, which is the level at which 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity would be 
achieved, is set out in the tables above.
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
76 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 As part of the annual review process, the Committee considered the recommendations of the Board Risk Committee in relation to  
the nature, incidence and materiality of risk issues arising during the year and an overall assessment of risk management relative to the 
risk appetite statement. As a result of that review, the Committee determined that no adjustments were required in relation to the bonus 
pools (2014: adjustment of £1m), although an adjustment was applied to the vesting outcome of the 2013 L TIP (see below).
The Committee also has the discretion to adjust the final STI outcome (upwards or downwards at either an overall funding level and/or  
in respect of awards to specific Executive Directors) to ensure that the outcome of the STI scorecard is fair in the context of overall 
Group performance, business performance and individual strategic/personal objectives, or in the event that an exceptional event 
occurred outside of the Executive Directors’ control which, in the Committee’s opinion, may have materially affected the STI outcome. 
The Committee decided that no such adjustment was required. However, it should be noted that the Chief Financial Officer proposed 
that his bonus be adjusted in the interest of consistency of reward outcomes across the wider business. As a result he will receive  
an STI bonus of £650,000 as set out in the table below.
The awards for Executive Directors were subject to the Group’s mandatory deferral policy.
The resulting STI awards (annual bonuses) for 2015 were as follows:
Deferred 
£’000
As a % of 
base salary
As a %  
of maximum 
opportunity Executive Director 
Total 
£’000
Cash 
£’000 Company shares
1
Funds
2
Andrew Formica 1,560.0 850.0 – 710.0 371% 74.2%
Roger Thompson 650.0
3
 395.0 127 .5 127 .5 191% 63.7%
Notes:
1.  The deferred Company shares referred to in the table above will be awarded at a price equal to the average purchase price of the underlying shares acquired to satisfy 
all awards (to all participants) under the Deferred Equity Plan (DEP) immediately prior to the date of award.
2. The deferred fund interests referred to in the table above will be awarded at the unit value of the relevant fund(s) at the date that the fund investment is made 
(expected to be 1 April 2016).
3. Although the calculated STI award for the Chief Financial Officer was £7 59,000 as set out in the graphic opposite, he waived entitlement to the incremental amount 
relative to 2014 as referred to above. 
LTI vesting in respect of performance periods ended in 2015 
The performance period for the 2013 L TIP ended on 31 December 2015. The table below shows the calculation to determine  
the percentage vesting based on the TSR result over the performance period. This accounts for vesting of 95% of the award. The 
Committee was satisfied that this reflected the financial and operating performance of the business over the period. In addition, the 
Committee assessed performance against a range of risk and sustainability measures which account for the other 5% of the award and 
determined that this element should be reduced to 3% of the maximum 5% available. This reflects the Committee’s recognition of a small 
number of legacy control and governance issues which have been identified and addressed (or are in the process of being addressed). 
The responsibility for these shortcomings ultimately rests with the senior cadre of the firm who make up the material proportion of 
participants within this plan, and it was concluded that the timing of these legacy issues correlated with the performance period of  
the 2013 LTIP. Therefore, the Committee felt that a reduction in the element relating to the risk and sustainability metrics was justified.
Metric Condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual % vesting
Relative TSR
TSR vs FTSE  
General Financials 
25% at  
50th percentile
100% at  
75th percentile
90th 
percentile 95%
Risk and sustainability
Subjective assessment by the Committee, taking in to account the recommendations 
of the Board Risk Committee, across a range of risk and sustainability metrics 3%
Total (% of maximum) 98%
The table below shows the vesting details of the 2013 L TIP for Andrew Formica and Roger Thompson. The awards vest on 6 April 2016. 
The value of the vested shares is based on a share price of £2.88, this being the average share price during the last quarter of 2015  
in accordance with the regulations. Any material change to the valuation based on the actual share price as at 6 April 2016 will be 
disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report for 2016.
Executive Director
Number of  
options at grant 
Number of 
options vested
Number of 
lapsed options
Vesting 
share price
(£)
L TIP value 
(£’000)
Value of 
dividends 
accrued on 
vested shares 
(£’000)
T otal value 
(£’000)
Andrew Formica 1,050,000 1,029,000 21,000 2.88 2,966 259 3,225
Roger Thompson 350,000 343,000 7 ,000 2.88 989 69 1,058
Note:
• In addition to the vested award under L TIP 2013, the single figure disclosure (£4,427 ,375) for Andrew Formica set out in page 73 in this report includes matching 
shares vesting under ESOP 201 1 of £1,183,420, being 410,540 shares at a share price of £2.88 and gain on options vesting under Sharesave 2012 of £18,973 being 
9,736 options with an option gain of £1.95 per option.
Strategic report Governance
77 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 LTI awards made during 2015
Under the L TIP, the Committee may make awards to Executive Directors up to a maximum number of ordinary shares determined by the 
Committee at the date of grant. Vesting of awards is partly after three years (2/3 of initial award) and partly after four years (1/3 of initial 
award). Under the 2015 L TIP, the vesting of awards is subject to the achievement of relevant performance targets over the measurement 
period, and continued employment. Vested shares under the plan are subject to additional holding periods (two years for the first vested 
tranche and one year for the second vested tranche) such that the minimum period between grant and release is five years. Vested 
awards must be exercised any time within the holding period or the following five years, otherwise the award automatically lapses. 
The performance measures under the 2015 L TIP are:
• TSR performance measured equally against the FTSE 350 and the ASX 100 (50% in aggregate)
• Net flows (15%)
• Three year investment performance (15%)
• Growth in operating margin (10%)
• Success in execution of the People Strategy (10%).
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that the above performance conditions appropriately reflect the Company’s underlying 
financial performance over the measurement period. 
The Committee has the power to vary or lapse individual unvested awards in cases of poor risk management, or where results have been 
misstated or where there has been serious misconduct, a material failure in risk management or a downturn in financial performance.  
The Committee also has the ability in certain cases to claw back vested awards. 
In 2015, the following L TI awards were granted to Executive Directors:
Executive Director T ype of award
Basis of award 
(% of salary)
Share price 
(£)
Number of 
options granted
Face value 
of award 
(£’000) 
% of face  
value that  
would vest 
at threshold 
performance 
Vesting determined by 
performance over
Andrew Formica Nil priced options 500% 2.793 751,879 2,100 25% 2015-2017 (2/3) 
2015-2018 (1/3)
Roger Thompson Nil priced options 300% 2.793 354,457 990 25% 2015-2017 (2/3) 
2015-2018 (1/3)
Notes:
• Our policy for L TIP awards to our Executive Directors is, other than where a material performance or other concern was present, to grant L TIP options at the maximum 
face value permitted under the shareholder approved plan (i.e. at 500% and 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively)  
to maximise their alignment with the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
• The face value of the award is based on the share price at the d ate of award (£2.793).
• The L TIP awards made to the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer on 1 May 2015 were in the form of nil priced options. This gives them rights over shares 
at the time of vesting subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions over the plan measurement period.
• The resulting value of the award will be based on the number of options that vest and the prevailing share price at the point of vesting.
Y ear-on-year percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive
This table reports the year-on-year percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive between 2015 and 2014 compared  
to that of the average employee. For comparative reasons, STI for the average employee population includes annual bonus, sales 
commission, performance fees and investment incentive schemes.
Employee Salary Benefits STI
Andrew Formica 0% 67% (5%)
Average employee 3% 12% 6%
Notes:
• Average employee data has been calculated by dividing the annual costs, excluding the Chief Executive, by the average number of staff employed during the year.
• Benefits above include provision of life assurance, critical illness insurance and private medical insurance and lunch allowance – the apparent high percentage increase 
in the value of benefits provided to the Chief Executive reflects the material increase in the critical illness premium, which partly reflects the general increase in the 
policy premium plus an adjustment to reflect the Chief Executive’s salary increase awarded in 2014. In absolute terms, the increase is small (i.e. £5,483 in 2015  
vs £3,285 in 2014).
• For the average employee, this percentage change reflects the impact on benefit costs of increased salaries, increases to the private medical insurance premium  
and the increase in lunch allowance – on a per capita basis, the absolute increase is small (i.e. average of £1,307 in 2015 vs £1,171 in 2014). 
The Committee continues to believe that shareholders’ interests are best served by ensuring that a significant proportion of variable  
pay is performance related. Across the wider business, STI has marginally increased relative to that for 2014 to reflect continuing strong 
business performance in 2015. Despite this strong performance, the STI awarded to the Chief Executive is marginally reduced (-5%) 
relative to that for 2014, which reflects his reduced maximum STI opportunity (reduced from 600% to 500% of base salary in respect  
of the 2015 performance year) offset by the increased financial and non-financial assessment scores in respect of his STI scorecard.
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
78 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
This graph provided by Towers Watson (calculated using Datastream data and according to a methodology that is compliant with the  
UK Companies Act) shows Henderson’s performance against the FTSE 350 General Financial Services Index over the last seven years 
based on the change in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding since December 2008:
0
200
400
600
£
Henderson
2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2014 2009 2008
 FTSE 350 General Financial Services Index
Total Shareholder Return
Chief Executive remuneration over last seven years
The total remuneration of Andrew Formica as Chief Executive for the last seven financial years is shown in the following table. The total 
remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in each year. The LTIP vesting 
figures show the pay-out for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£’000) 2,205 3,516 6,420 2,802 4,989 4,315 6,469
STI % maximum 50% 66% 71% 43% 79% 65% 74%
L TIP % maximum vesting 100% 100% 100% 0% 78% 43% 98%
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The following table shows the year-on-year movement in total remuneration of all employees compared to the increase in dividends  
paid and declared on ordinary shares:
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
%  
change
Cost of remuneration of all employees (continuing operations)
1
233.4 273.0 17
Dividends on ordinary shares 101.8 116.0 14
Profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent (continuing operations)
2
126.9 161.2 27 
Notes:
1. The figure for cost of employee remuneration for 20 14 in the table above excludes remuneration for employees transferred to TH Real Estate on 1 April 2014 (£9.6m).
2. The figure in the table above for profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent for 2014 excludes: 
• A non-recurring gain of £125.3m on the TIAA-CREF transactions; and 
• Profits after tax of £6.3m arising in the first quarter of 20 14 from the discontinued Property business that transferred to TH Real Estate on 1 April 2014. 
Including these items, the profit after tax for 2014 would be £258.5m – an excess over 2015 of 38%.
How the policy will be applied in 2016
Base salary
The Committee has generally taken a restrained approach to base salary increases, and only made changes where it feels there  
is a material misalignment with the market, and in the context of good performance. The average percentage increase to base salaries 
across the Group which will be awarded as part of the 2016 compensation review is 3%.
It is proposed to increase the Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s salaries to £432,500 and £350,000 respectively –  
in both cases an increase of 3% which is in line with the average salary increase across the general workforce.
The Committee takes the issue of pay discipline very seriously and firmly believes that while base pay should be set at a reasonable level, 
it takes equally seriously the need to retain high-performing executives by ensuring that their pay is competitive. Getting this balance right 
is clearly in the interests of shareholders.
Executive Director 2015 2016 Increase
Andrew Formica £420,000 £432,500 3%
Roger Thompson £340,000 £350,000 3%
Strategic report Governance
79 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Fees for the Board Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors
The table below shows the annualised fees payable to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors in 2015. Following  
a comprehensive review of fee levels across our immediate listed peer group and FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 benchmarks, modest 
increases to the current fee rates are proposed with effect from 1 January 2016. Prior to the increases highlighted in the table below,  
the Chairman’s and other Non-Executive Directors’ fee rates had been unchanged since 1 January 2014. The proposed increases  
are as follows:
• The Chairman’s fee to be increased by 10% (5% on an annualised basis since the last increase at the beginning of 2014); and
• Other Non-Executive Directors’ fees to be increased on average by 6.4% (annualised increase 3.2% since the last increase in 2014).
 The table below also reflects a forecast of the annualised fees payable in 2016, taking into account the proposed increases:
£
Board 
Chairman Base fee
Senior 
Independent 
Director fee
Committee 
Chair
Committee 
member T otal 2015
Proposed 
Total 2016
Proposed 
increase 
(annualised)
Chairman
Richard Gillingwater 200,000 200,000 220,000 5.0%
Other Non-Executive Directors
Sarah Arkle 60,000 20,000 10,000 90,000 96,500 3.6%
Kevin Dolan 60,000 10,000 70,000 74,000 2.9%
Tim How 60,000 12,500 20,000 10,000 102,500 109,000 3.2%
Robert Jeens 60,000 22,500 10,000 92,500 99,000 3.5%
Angela Seymour-Jackson 60,000 10,000 70,000 74,000 2.9%
Kalpana Desai 60,000 10,000 70,000 74,000 2.9%
Total 200,000 360,000 12,500 62,500 60,000 695,000 746,500 3.7%
Other Non-Executive Directors only 3.2%
Notes:
• The increases proposed above are: Base fee £62,500 (2015: £60,000); Committee Chair fee £22,500 (2015: £20,000); and Committee member fee £1 1,500  
(2015: £10,000).
• The Chair of the Audit Committee’s fee includes an additional fee of £2,500 for responsibility for the Conflicts of Interest Committee, a sub-committee of the  
Audit Committee.
• The figures for 2015 above are annualised – for Kalpani Desai (appointed 5 October 2015), the actual fees received during the year were £17 ,500.
Performance targets for STI and LTI awards to be granted in 2016
For 2016, the annual bonus will continue to be based on performance against a scorecard of financial targets and the achievement  
of non-financial objectives, as detailed in the remuneration policy
1
, which are illustrated on pages 73 and 77 respectively. The Committee 
has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee 
considers commercially sensitive. However, retrospective disclosure of performance will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual report  
on remuneration.
The main KPIs taken into account are:
• Growth in underlying profit, ROE and operating margin
2
 and revenue (management fees only), indicative of meeting our shareholders’ 
expectations for profitable growth and strong financial control
• Net new business growth, indicative of our success in delivering investment performance and service, but also in delivering 
appropriate products which meet our clients’ long-term investment needs
• Proportion of funds which outperform, indicative of our success in delivering excellent investment performance to our clients  
and a key driver in our objective of growing long-term, stable AUM and to grow sustainable revenues streams.
The Committee has decided to adopt the same measurement and vesting periods for the 2016 L TIP as applied to the 2015 L TIP, with:
• two thirds of the award being eligible to vest after three years subject to the plan performance over a three year measurement  
period; and
• one third of the award being eligible to vest after four years, subject to the plan performance over a four year measurement period.
Each tranche of the award will be subject to additional holding periods (two years in respect of the first tranche and one year in respect 
of the second tranche), such that the period between award grant and ultimate release will increase to five years, thereby aligning 
participant and shareholder interests over a five year period.
Notes:
1. The remuneration policy, though not included with this year’s report, can be read at www.henderson.com/ir/content/corporate-governance-ir
2. These measures exclude performance fee revenues and all variable compensation.
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
80 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 The performance measures associated with the 2016 L TIP are set out below:
Measure Weighting Detail Rationale
Relative TSR 
(measured equally 
against the FTSE 350 
and the ASX 100)
50% <50th percentile  
50th percentile  
>75th percentile
0%  
25%  
100%
TSR remains a key measure of shareholder value creation.  
The choice of comparator indices seeks to encourage 
outperformance against the key indices relevant to our major 
UK and Australian shareholders, accounting for 89% of our 
total shareholder base. Previous practice of using a more 
bespoke comparator group has been replaced due to the 
relatively small number of relevant listed peers which could 
result in outcomes being highly volatile by reference to under-/ 
over-performance, or consolidation activities, of a small number 
of comparators in the peer group.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that  
the TSR outcome reflects the Company’s underlying  
financial performance.
Net fund flows 15% Average annual flows 
between 3.5% (25% 
vest) and 7% (100% 
vest) over the relevant 
performance period.
Key component of our five year growth and globalisation 
strategy is to double AUM over that period – positive  
fund flows are integral to achievement of this objective.
Three year investment 
performance
15% Performance relative  
to relevant benchmarks 
of 55% (25% vest) 
and 70% (100% vest) 
over the relevant 
performance period.
Long-term investment performance is key to increasing  
AUM and increasing profitability.
Growth in  
operating margin
10% Average annual improvement  
by 0.5% (25% vest) and 1%  
(100% vest) over the relevant 
performance period.
Our five year strategy is focused on growth and globalisation 
and in addition to doubling AUM, requires us to:
• increase efficiency (growth in operating margin); and
• maximise the retention, development and motivation  
of our people, who are the Company’s greatest asset. 
The strategic measures have been chosen by the Committee 
as key elements in ensuring the success of the strategy.
People Strategy 10% Assessment by the Committee  
of performance against our 
objective of recruiting, retaining, 
incentivising and developing  
our key employees, including 
assessment of culture and 
conduct, retention and employee 
engagement metrics and strength 
of our succession planning  
and execution.
Note:
• Between Threshold and Maximum performance, awards vest between 25% and 1 00% on a straight-line basis.
Strategic report Governance
81 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Outstanding LTI and other share scheme awards
The table below shows the vesting results of L TIP awards for 2011 to 2013. The 2014 and 2015 plans may vest, depending on 
performance over the measurement period, in 2016 and 2017 (2014 L TIP) and 2017 and 2018 (2015 L TIP) respectively. The table  
also shows the outstanding interests of Executive Directors in these plans.
2011 L TIP 2012 L TIP 2013 L TIP 2014 L TIP 2015 L TIP
Awards made March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 May 2014 May 2015
Performance period 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 (2/3) 
2014-2017 (1/3)
2015-2017 (2/3) 
2015-2018 (1/3)
Performance criteria TSR vs FTSE 
General 
Financials  
Below 50th = 
zero
TSR vs FTSE General Financials (95%) 
Risk and sustainability (5%) 
Below 50th = zero
As set out in the 
table on page 81
At 50th = 25% 
Above 75th = 
100%  
Straight line 
between these 
points
At 50th = 25% 
Above 75th = 100% 
Straight line between these points
Vesting dates 1 March 2014 6 April 2015 6 April 2016 1 April 2017 (2/3) 
1 April 2018 (1/3)
1 April 2018 (2/3) 
1 April 2019 (1/3)
Exercise by 1 March 2019 6 April 2020 6 April 2021 1 April 2022 (2/3) 
1 April 2023 (1/3)
1 April 2025 (2/3) 
1 April 2025 (1/3)
Outcome TSR of 86% 
68th percentile 
78% vested
TSR of 116% 
55th percentile 
43% vested
TSR of 171% 
90th percentile
Performance 
period not  
complete
Performance 
period not 
complete
Vesting date  
share price
£2.54 £2.90 £2.88 n/a n/a
Executive Director Plan Type
2013 award  
vests 2016
2014 award  
vests 2017/18
2015 award 
vests 2018/19
Interest at  
31 December 2015
Andrew Formica LTIP Options 1,050,000 790,000 751,879 2,591,879
Roger Thompson LTIP Options 350,000 372,500 354,457 1,076,957
Notes:
• The share price shown for the 20 13 L TIP is the average share price during the last quarter of 2015.
• The 2013 L TIP will vest on 6 April 2016 with a vesting percentage of 98%.
The table below shows the Executive Directors’ outstanding interests in the Group share schemes at 31 December 2014 and 2015, 
together with the additional interests in shares held beneficially by the Executive Directors outside of the Group share schemes.
It includes the movements in the employee and executive share plans during 2015.
Movement during year
Executive Director Plan Type
Interest at  
31 December 
2014 Awarded 
Vested 2015 
not exercised
Vested 2015 
and exercised
Vested in 
previous years 
and exercised Lapsed
Interest at  
31 December 
2015
Andrew Formica SAYE Options 13,941 3,964 9,736 8,169
BAYE Shares 57 ,477 4,001 61,478
DEP/ESOP Shares 410,542 102,635 307 ,905 205,272
LTIP Options 3,240,000 751,879 602,000 798,000 2,591,879
Total outstanding interests in Group share schemes 2,866,798
Total shares held outright outside of Group share schemes 6,721,414
Total interests in Group shares 9,588,212
Roger Thompson BAYE Shares 2,961 2,127 5,088
LTIP Options 722,500 354,457 1,076,957
DEP Shares 37 ,549 44,289 12,516 69,322
SAYE Options 8,411 8,411
Total outstanding interests in Group share schemes 1,159,778
Total shares held outright outside of Group share schemes 188,239
Total interests in Group shares 1,348,018
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
82 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ personal shareholding and beneficial share interests
Over time, each Executive Director is required to maintain a personal target shareholding equivalent to 300% of base salary (excluding 
unvested interests in Company share schemes). Andrew Formica has achieved this target. Roger Thompson, who was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer on 26 June 2013, currently holds shares with a value equivalent to 159% (2014: 114%) of base salary, and is expected 
to achieve the 300% target over time.
The table below shows the financial value of the personal holding as a multiple of base salary as at 31 December 2015:
Executive Director
Value  
(£’000)
Multiple of base  
salary (rounded)
Andrew Formica 19,357 46
Roger Thompson 542 2
Note:
• Based on share price of £2.88, being the average over the three months prior to the end of 2015.
There is no personal target shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Shares personally held
As at 10 February 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, the Directors had the following beneficial interests in shares  
in the Company:
1 0 Feb 2016
31 Dec 2015
(or date of appointment)
31 Dec 2014
(or date of appointment)
Executive Directors
Andrew Formica (Chief Executive) 6,721,414 6,721,414 6,721,249
Roger Thompson (Chief Financial Officer) 188,239 188,239 181,606
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Richard Gillingwater 15,000 15,000 15,000
Other Non-Executive Directors
Sarah Arkle 20,663 20,663 20,663
Kevin Dolan 3,083 3,083 3,083
Tim How 11,780 11,780 11,780
Robert Jeens 14,694 14,694 14,694
Angela Seymour-Jackson 11,082 11,082 11,082
Kalpana Desai (appointed 5 Oct 2015) – – –
Total 6,985,855 6,985,855 6,979,157
Note: Directors’ figures include interests of connected persons.
Payments within the year to past Directors
Payments made to past Directors during 2015, in relation to awards vesting under relevant Company share plans, are set out  
in the following table:
Executive Director Plan Type Vested Lapsed
Value vested 
(£)
Shirley Garrood LTIP 
ESOP 
DEP
Options 
Shares 
Fund units
193,500 
19,585 
71,903
256,500 
– 
–
578,017 
55,941 
236,076
David Jacob DEP 
DEP 
LTIP 
ESOP
Shares 
Fund units 
Shares 
Shares
6,979 
113,268 
143,333 
20,680
– 
– 
190,000 
–
16,952 
269,888 
412,626 
59,068
James Darkins DEP 
DEP 
LTIP 
ESOP
Shares 
Fund units 
Options 
Shares
5,177 
144,093 
215,000 
10,283
– 
– 
285,000 
–
14,100 
226,815 
618,940 
29,371
Strategic report Governance
83 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 External directorships
Andrew Formica is a member of the Board of the Investment Association and, until his resignation on 1 June 2015, was a member  
of the Board of TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited. He received no remuneration for either of these roles. On 26 November 2015,  
he became a Non-Executive Director of Hammerson plc. In 2015, he was remunerated £5,692 for this role.
Statement of shareholder voting
At last year’s AGM held on 30 April 2015, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Directors’  
remuneration policy Prior year
Directors’ 
 remuneration report Prior year
Votes cast in favour 664,781,669 84.2% 561,937 ,891 72.2% 672,179,298 85.4% 698,574,933 89.7%
Votes cast against 123,355,647 15.6% 216,129,042 27 .8% 115,986,335 14.6% 79,883,565 10.3%
Votes at proxy’s discretion 1,616,979 0.2% – – 1,621,804 0.2% – –
Total votes cast 789,754,295 100.0% 778,066,933 100.0% 789,769,437 100.0% 778,458,498 100.0%
Abstentions 737 ,070 – 13,254,986 – 721,148 – 12,794,480 –
The Committee was encouraged by the material increase in the positive voting for the remuneration policy relative to that in 2014.  
The Committee has analysed the reasons for the negative voting above and believe it arises in relation to two key factors, mainly  
in relation to its Australian shareholder base, these being:
• Material differences in market pay levels for the chief executives within the European asset management sector  
(against whom our Chief Executive’s pay is benchmarked) and those within the Australian financial sector
• The degree of stretch implicit in the threshold, target and maximum targets of the L TIP programme.
The Committee has sought to engage on, and provide rationale to, these matters via correspondence with major shareholders  
(and proxy voting agencies) and with face-to-face discussions where appropriate. The Committee believes that its policy and decisions 
in this regard are appropriate for the Company, are reflective of the continued strong performance of the Company, and appropriately 
balance and align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders. The Committee anticipates similar, or increased, levels  
of support for the 2015 Directors’ remuneration report.
Directors’ remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued
84 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 The Company is subject to the high standards of corporate 
governance contained in both the UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the FRC in September 2014 (UK Code) and the 
Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations issued 
by the ASX Corporate Governance Council in March 2014 (ASX 
Principles). The UK Code and the ASX Principles can be found 
on the websites of their respective organisations at www.frc.org.
uk and www.asx.com.au. The Company’s corporate governance 
policies can be found on our website. 
Throughout the year, the Company applied the main principles  
of the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations. 
The Company has complied with all the provisions of the  
UK Code and the ASX Recommendations as set out in the 
Corporate Governance Statement except in regard to the  
setting and disclosure of gender diversity targets as set out  
in ASX Recommendation 1.5. The reasons for non-compliance 
are set out on page 58. 
This section, together with the Directors’ remuneration report, 
describes how we applied the ‘main principles’ set out in the UK 
Code and complied with the ASX Principles. Further details can 
be found in the Corporate Governance section of our website. 
The ASX Principles also encourage companies that are not 
subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001 to adopt 
practices and make disclosures to achieve the aims of the 
provisions contained in certain sections of that Act.
We achieved the aims of some of the provisions, although  
not fully on senior executives’ remuneration. Our disclosure  
of individuals’ remuneration is limited to the Executive Directors  
who were members of the Board in 2015. Disclosure of the 
remuneration of non-directors is not a requirement in the UK  
and we consider this information to be commercially sensitive. 
However, we have disclosed the aggregate annual remuneration 
of FCA Code Staff on our website at www.henderson.com/ir
Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
Set out below is the Board’s assessment of the Company’s 
compliance with the main principles of the UK Code.
A. Leadership
A.1 The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for making all key strategic, 
management and commercial decisions which are necessary  
for the conduct of the Company’s business as a whole, including 
the approval of corporate strategy, annual budgets, interim and 
full year financial statements and reports, dividends, accounting 
policies and all significant capital projects, acquisitions and 
disposals. The Chief Executive and the ExCo are responsible  
for developing the appropriate business strategy and, once 
approved by the Board, for ensuring that the strategy is 
effectively implemented in accordance with the approved 
operating plan and within a sound system of internal controls  
to achieve agreed objectives. A schedule of matters reserved  
for approval by the Board is reviewed annually and is also on  
our website. The Board has granted specific delegated 
authorities (with financial limits approved by the Board) to  
the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior 
executives in respect of financial, accounting, treasury, regulatory 
and other matters relating to the Group’s business and these 
were reviewed and updated during 2015. A number of other 
Committees have been appointed to manage aspects of our 
business and form part of the risk management framework  
that monitors and mitigates the risks and uncertainties. 
See pages 54 and 55 for a description of Board business  
and activities in 2015.
A.2 Division of responsibilities 
There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is 
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, 
and the Chief Executive who is responsible to the Board for the 
overall management and performance of the Group. A summary 
of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out  
in the Corporate Governance Policy on our website.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman provides the appropriate leadership to the Board 
as demonstrated by the recent Board evaluation and ensures  
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. He also holds meetings 
to discuss and agree the setting of its agenda to ensure that  
all matters are considered and provided with sufficient time 
according to their importance. See pages 54 to 56 for a 
summary of the Board evaluation and the activities of the Board.
A.4 Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman is committed to making certain that the Board 
devotes enough time to consider the Group’s strategy and its link 
to the business. At the end of each Board meeting, a discussion 
is held with the Non-Executive Directors to ensure that matters 
are being considered and addressed to their satisfaction.  
The Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to 
question and challenge any initiatives and proposals from 
management on a regular basis.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee reviews the mix of diversity, skills  
and experience on the Board and succession planning for the 
Non-Executive Directors. See pages 57 and 58 for a summary  
of the activities of the Committee. Directors’ biographies are  
set out on pages 52 to 53. See page 53 for a summary of 
independence of Directors on the Board and page 56 for  
a further summary of skills and experience.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board when appointing new Directors. A summary of any 
appointment process is also reported when applicable. See page 
57 for an overview of the induction process for Kalpana Desai. 
A summary of our policy on the appointment and reappointment 
of Directors is on our website, as is a summary of the terms and 
conditions of their appointment. 
B.3 Commitment
Directors are notified of the time commitment expected from 
them in their letters of appointment and reappointment. The 
schedule of Board and Committee meetings is prepared and 
agreed two years in advance where possible, to ensure that  
the Directors are aware of and can meet their commitments.
B.4 Development
Regular training sessions to update Directors’ skills  
and knowledge of the business and regulatory matters  
when appropriate are held during the year and details are  
set out on page 56. See page 57 for an overview of the  
induction process for Kalpana Desai.
Compliance statements and  
application of principles and recommendations
Strategic report Governance
85 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Compliance statements and application of principles  
and recommendations continued
B.5 Information and support
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold 
agenda-setting meetings before each Board meeting to review 
the items of business, the likely time to be spent on each agenda 
item, who should present particular items and to ensure that 
appropriate papers are provided. These are provided both in  
hard copy and in a secure format electronically as requested  
by the Directors in advance of Board and Committee meetings. 
B.6 Evaluation
The Board carries out an internal evaluation exercise of its own 
performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors 
on an annual basis. Every three years, an external evaluation 
specialist is appointed to carry out the process and report to  
the Board. The last external evaluation was undertaken in 2014.  
The results of the 2015 evaluation are set out on page 56.
B.7 Re-election of Directors
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a fixed term, 
normally three years, and any subsequent terms are considered 
by the Board. If a Non-Executive Director is reappointed after 
having served six years, such reappointment, and any subsequent 
reappointment, will normally be for a period of 12 months.  
At our AGM held on 30 April 2015, shareholders reappointed 
Sarah Arkle, Kevin Dolan, Andrew Formica, Richard Gillingwater, 
Tim How, Robert Jeens, Angela Seymour-Jackson and Roger 
Thompson as Directors. Our next AGM is due to take place  
on 28 April 2016 in London, when all Directors on the Board  
at that date will be seeking reappointment in accordance with  
the recommendations of the UK Code.
C. Accountability 
C.1 Financial and business reporting
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report which sets  
out the Company’s position and prospects to ensure that it is  
fair, balanced and understandable, to assist the Board in making  
their decision. Further detail regarding this process is set out  
on pages 62 and 63.
C.2 Risk management and internal control
The Board Risk Committee considers the Group’s risk appetite 
statement and risk management framework. Further details  
are set out on pages 59 to 61. The Audit Committee considers  
the system on internal controls and the annual internal controls  
report and further information is set out on pages 59 and 64. 
C.3 Audit Committee and auditors
The Board has in place a framework of formal and transparent 
arrangements to apply the corporate reporting and risk 
management and internal control principles and for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the Company’s auditors.  
A description of these arrangements can be found in the  
relevant Board Risk and Audit Committee reports on pages  
60 to 61 and 62 to 65 respectively.
D. Remuneration 
D.1 The level and components of remuneration
Details of the Executive Directors’ remuneration and how  
this promotes the long-term success of the Company is set  
out in the the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 84.  
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at  
the 2015 AGM.
D.2 Procedure 
The Group’s approach to setting remuneration policy is set out  
in the Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at the  
2015 AGM. For ease of reference, a summary of the Company’s 
key remuneration principles and remuneration elements is also 
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
E. Relations with shareholders
E.1 Dialogue with shareholders 
We actively engage with investors and investor bodies and 
welcome the opportunity to discuss their views on relevant 
issues. The Board also receives regular feedback from the 
Investor Relations team and the Executive Directors about 
investors’ and analysts’ views on the Group and wider  
industry matters.
We publish our financial results on both the LSE and the ASX. 
The 2014 Annual Report was sent to all shareholders that had 
requested it and all other shareholders were notified, via post or 
email, that the 2014 Annual Report was available on our website. 
More information regarding dialogue with our shareholders 
is set out on page 66.
E.2 Constructive use of General Meetings
The AGM provides our shareholders with an opportunity  
to question the Board and the Chairman invites questions  
during the course of the meeting. All shareholders were invited  
to the AGM held on 30 April 2015, held in London and 
simultaneously broadcast to Sydney, Australia. All Directors 
attended the AGM. Notice of the AGM was given to 
shareholders and a summary of the questions asked at  
the AGM and the answers given, together with the results  
of resolutions put to the AGM, are on our website.
86 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Compliance with the ASX Corporate  
Governance Principles and Recommendations
Principle 1 – Lay solid foundations for management  
and oversight 
1.1 Role of the Board and delegation of responsibilities
See pages 54 and 85 for a description of the role of the Board 
and delegation of responsibilities. In addition, a copy of our 
Corporate Governance Policy, which sets out the roles of  
the Board and the Directors, is on our website.
1.2 Appropriate checks undertaken when  
appointing Directors and information relevant to the 
appointment of Directors
As the Group has a number of subsidiaries which are regulated, 
the appointment of every Director to the Board of Henderson 
Group plc is subject to pre-approval from the FCA before such 
an appointment can be made. Biographies for each of the 
Directors are set out on pages 52 and 53.
1.3 Terms of appointment 
The terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out 
in their letters of appointment, an example of which is available on 
the website. The Executive Directors and senior executives have 
service contracts. 
1.4 The Company Secretary
Jacqui Irvine, the General Counsel and Company Secretary,  
is directly accountable to the Board and all Directors have 
access to her services. The Company Secretary can be 
appointed or removed only with the approval of the Board. The 
Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice,  
at the Company’s expense, where they judge it necessary for 
them to discharge their responsibilities.
1.5 Diversity policy and objectives 
A copy of our Diversity Policy is on our website. Page 43 
contains the relevant proportions of men and women on the 
Board, ExCo and across the whole organisation. See page 58  
for our diversity disclosures and the reasons why Henderson 
does not set diversity targets. 
1.6 Evaluation of the Board
See page 56 for further information regarding our Board 
evaluation process.
1.7 Evaluation of senior executives
See page 56 for further information regarding the evaluation  
of our senior executives. A copy of the policy is available  
on our website.
Principle 2 – Structure the board to add value 
2.1 Nomination Committee
See pages 57 and 58 for a description of the activities of  
the Nomination Committee. Terms of reference of the Committee 
are available on the website. Committee attendance is set out  
on page 55.
2.2 Board skills matrix 
Page 56 contains a summary of the skills and experience of each 
of the Directors. A note on Henderson’s policy on diversity is set 
out on page 58. A skills matrix is also reviewed on an annual 
basis by the Nomination Committee.
2.3 Independence of Directors 
See page 53 for a summary of the independence of Directors. 
Dates of appointment are set out on page 55. In addition, page 
58 sets out the tenure of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.4 A majority of the board of a listed entity should be 
independent directors
Independent Non-Executive Directors constitute a majority  
of the Board. See page 53 for a summary.
2.5 Independence of the Chairman 
See page 53 for a summary of the independence of Directors 
and the Chairman.
2.6 Induction and training 
See page 57 for an overview of the induction process for  
Kalpana Desai. Regular training sessions to update Directors’ 
skills and knowledge of the business and regulatory matters 
when appropriate are held during the year and details are  
set out on page 56.
Principle 3 – Act ethically and responsibly 
3.1 Code of Conduct 
A copy of the Code of Conduct, which is applicable to  
all members of the organisation, is available on the website.
Principle 4 – Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting 
4.1 Audit Committee 
A description of the activities of the Audit Committee is set out 
on pages 62 to 65. Terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
are available on our website. Committee attendance is set out  
on page 55.
4.2 Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Declaration
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s declaration  
to the Board is set out on page 59. 
4.3 External auditors and AGM 
The external auditors will be asked to attend the Company’s  
AGM on 28 April 2016 and will be available to answer questions 
from shareholders about the conduct of the audit and the 
preparation and content of the independent auditors’ report  
as shown on pages 92 to 98.
Strategic report Governance
87 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Principle 5 – Make timely and balanced disclosure
5.1 Market Disclosure Policy 
A copy of the Group’s Market Disclosure Policy is available on 
our website. In addition, the Company has a Market Disclosure 
Committee which supports the Company Disclosure Officer  
(the Chief Financial Officer) and ensures that full consideration  
is given to the appropriateness, quality and adequacy of material 
information that is released to the market by the Group and that 
there is an adequate system in place for the timely disclosure  
of all material information to the ASX and UK Listing Authority  
and other authorities. It advises the Board members where  
the Committee considers there is an obligation to disclose 
information in accordance with the Group’s continuous disclosure 
obligations. The Committee meets regularly and reviews the 
status of projects and the employee insider list as well as some 
other materials that may be published internally or externally  
from time to time.
The Company also has a Share Trading Policy (available on  
our website) which sets out a procedure and situations when  
the Directors and employees of the Company can and cannot 
deal in shares in Henderson Group plc.
Principle 6 – Respect the rights of security holders
6.1 Online information 
Our website provides online services, which includes a Corporate 
Governance page, to help shareholders manage their holding 
and engage with the Investor Relations team and Share Registry. 
To assist shareholders in accessing up-to-date information on the 
Group, market briefings and other Company announcements and 
presentations are available on our website as well as the other 
policies required by the UK Code and ASX Principles, including 
the Company’s Market Disclosure and Communication and 
Shareholder Communication Policies.
6.2 Investor Relations programme
Information regarding our Investor Relations programme with  
our shareholders is set out on page 66.
6.3 Policies and processes to facilitate and encourage 
participation at meetings of security holders
Henderson’s approach to communicating to shareholders  
and our markets is set out in the Market Disclosure and 
Communication Policy, designed to ensure compliance with  
our disclosure obligations. A Chief Disclosure Officer has been 
appointed to oversee this via the Market Disclosure Committee 
as set out in 5.1 above.
6.4 Electronic communications
E-mail details for the Investor Relations team and Computershare, 
the Registrar, can be found on our website.
Computershare routinely sends a ‘Deemed Consent’ mailing.  
This gives the option for shareholders to opt for electronic 
(E-comms) or full hard copy communications. If they do not reply, 
the shareholder is ‘deemed’ to have opted for a reduced hard 
copy mailing and will receive paper shareholder documents 
(dividend tax vouchers) but they are notified that company 
documents (Annual Reports etc.) can be found online. This 
preference can be changed at any point by phoning, writing  
to or e-mailing Computershare. A shareholder can also make 
these changes themselves online on the Investor Centre.
Principle 7 – Recognise and manage risk 
7 .1 Board Risk Committee
A description of the responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee 
and our risk management framework is set out on pages 60 to 61 
and 23 to 25 respectively. Terms of reference of the Committee 
are available on our website. Committee attendance is set out  
on page 55.
7 .2 Risk Management Framework
Our risk management framework is set out on pages 23 to 25. 
Disclosures relating to the review of the risk management 
framework are set out on page 59.
7 .3 Internal Audit Function
Disclosures relating to the Internal Audit Function are included  
on page 65.
7 .4 Risks and Sustainability
A description of our principal risks and uncertainties can be 
found on pages 26 and 27 . See also the Corporate Responsibility 
section on pages 44 to 47 .
Principle 8 – Remunerate fairly and responsibly 
8.1 Remuneration Committee
A description of the responsibilities and activities of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 84. Terms of reference  
of the Committee are available on our website. Committee 
attendance is set out on page 55.
8.2 Remuneration Policies and Practices 
The Group’s Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders 
at the 2015 AGM. For ease of reference, a summary of the 
Company’s key remuneration principles and remuneration 
elements is also set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
8.3 Share Trading Policy
A copy of the Share Trading Policy which prohibits the use of 
derivatives in respect of employee holdings in Henderson Group 
securities is available on our website.
Compliance statements and application of principles  
and recommendations continued
88 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Reporting
Shares in Henderson Group plc are listed on both the LSE  
and the ASX (in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs)) 
and therefore, the Company is required to comply with both sets 
of disclosure requirements.
Management report 
Together, the Strategic report and Directors’ report make  
up the Management report for the purpose of Disclosure  
and Transparency Rule 4.1.8.
Branches
The Group continues to operate a number of overseas branches. 
Directors
Details of the Board members who served during the year and  
at the date of this report are set out on pages 52 and 53. 
Powers
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association and provisions 
of relevant statutes, the Board may exercise all powers of  
the Company.
Appointment/removal of Directors
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code,  
all Directors will offer themselves for reappointment at the AGM 
on 28 April 2016. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, 
shareholders may remove a Director before the end of his  
or her term by passing an ordinary resolution at a meeting  
of shareholders. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Directors have put in place procedures to deal with conflicts 
of interest and these have operated effectively throughout 2015. 
A Register of Conflicts of Interest is maintained by the Company 
and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. 
Indemnification and insurance of Directors and officers
The Company provides an indemnity to Directors to the extent 
permitted by the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. The indemnity 
was enforced throughout the financial year and at the date of  
the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company continues to maintain appropriate insurance  
cover against certain liabilities for all Directors and officers  
of the Group.
Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year.
Rounding
In accordance with the Australian Securities and Investments 
Commission Class Order 98/100, amounts in this Directors’ 
report and other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts 
have been rounded to the nearest £0.1m, unless stated otherwise.
Annual General Meeting
A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
2016, covering the AGM of the Company to be held on 28 April 
2016, will be sent or made available to all shareholders and will 
contain an explanation of the business before that meeting. 
Share capital and structure
Details of the movements in allotted share capital during  
the year, together with the rights and obligations attaching  
to the Company’s shares, are given in note 25 to the  
financial statements.
No restrictions exist on the transfer or holding of securities  
in the Company under its Articles of Association and there  
are no shares carrying special rights with regards to the control  
of the Company.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 10 February 2016, the Company had received notification 
of holdings in the Company’s issued share capital as set out in 
the table below:
Substantial shareholder
T otal number of 
shares %
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 58,098,373 5.09
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 57 ,201,717 5.01
Hyperion Asset Management 
Limited 56,136,581 4.92
Wellington Management Company, 
LLP 55,342,341 4.88
IOOF Holdings Limited 49,005,304 4.40
AMP Limited 34,461,477 3.04
Employee share schemes
The Company has a number of employee share schemes and  
the rights attached to the shares of certain share schemes are 
not exercisable by employees. The discretion to vote remains  
with the trustees with two exceptions: 
1. in cases of takeover or reconstruction; and
2.  the trustee of the Henderson Group plc Buy As Y ou Earn 
Share Plan (and its international equivalent) does not  
have discretion on how to vote and seeks instructions  
from the beneficiaries. 
Restrictions on voting rights
There are no restrictions on voting rights of securities in  
the Company. The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for 
determining attendance and voting entitlements at the AGM.
Directors’ report
Further disclosures, where applicable to the Company, are 
contained in the sections of this Annual Report and Accounts 
identified below and form part of this Directors’ report: 
Page(s)
Corporate Governance 48-66 and 85-88
Dividend 21
Events after the reporting date 145
Directors’ Remuneration & Interests 67-84
Financial Risk Management & Financial 
Instruments 137
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 46
Strategic report Governance
89 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Amendment to the Articles of Association  
of the Company
The Company may only amend its Articles of Association  
if its shareholders pass a special resolution to that effect. 
New issues of share capital and disapplication  
of pre-emption rights
At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders 
to allot the Company’s unissued shares up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £47 ,501,641, or £95,003,282 when in 
connection with an offer of equity securities by way of a rights 
issue to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings. 
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority up to a limit  
of £47 ,160,087 , and £94,320,175 respectively at the AGM  
on 28 April 2016. 
The Directors also have authority to allot equity securities for cash 
or sell ordinary shares held in treasury (treasury shares) for cash 
on a non-pre-emptive basis: (a) pursuant to a rights issue; or (b) 
up to an aggregate nominal amount of £7 ,125,246. Shareholders 
will be asked to renew this authority up to an increased limit of 
£14,148,026, in accordance with the Pre-Emption Group’s 
Statement of Principles, at the AGM on 28 April 2016.
Purchase of own share capital
At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were authorised to purchase  
up to a maximum of 114,003,938 ordinary shares minus the 
number of shares purchased as CDIs under a Contingent 
Purchase Contract. 
During the year, in light of the Company’s improved capital 
position, the Directors decided to implement a share buyback 
programme to enhance returns to shareholders. The Company 
bought back, and subsequently cancelled, a total of 9,012,801 
ordinary shares with a nominal value of 12.5 pence per share, 
representing 0.79% of the total issued share capital.  
The aggregate amount of consideration paid for the shares  
was £25m.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities up to  
a limit of 113,184,210 ordinary shares at the AGM on 28 April 
2016. Further information, including the maximum and minimum 
prices which may be paid for the shares and CDIs, is set out  
in the Notice of AGM.
Significant agreements
Henderson UK Finance plc (a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company) has in issue £150,000,000 2016 Notes maturing on 
24 March 2016 which are listed on the LSE. Condition 7 .3 of the 
terms and conditions of the 2016 Notes gives each noteholder 
the option to require Henderson UK Finance plc to redeem or  
(at Henderson UK Finance plc’s option) to purchase that 2016 
Note at its principal amount together with accrued interest in the 
event of a ‘Change of Control’. A ‘Change of Control’ will be 
deemed to have occurred if any person or persons acting 
together come(s) to own more than 50% of the share capital  
of Henderson Group plc (or more than 50% of the voting rights 
attached to the share capital of Henderson Group plc) save in 
circumstances where the ultimate shareholders remain the same. 
In the event that 80% or more in the nominal amount of the 2016 
Notes then outstanding has been redeemed or purchased in 
accordance with this condition, Henderson UK Finance plc may 
redeem, at its option, the remaining 2016 Notes as a whole  
at their principal amount plus accrued interest. 
Independent auditors
It is proposed that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be reappointed 
as independent auditors and a resolution for shareholders will  
be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Financial reporting and going concern
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in  
the Directors’ responsibilities statement in relation to the 
consolidated financial statements and those of the Company  
for the year ended 31 December 2015 (refer to page 91).
Our business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
their future development, performance and position, are set out  
in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 7 to 10. The financial 
position of the Group, and its cash flow and liquidity position,  
are described in the consolidated financial statements and notes. 
In particular, note 27 to the financial statements summarises  
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing  
its financial risk management objectives, details of financial 
instruments used and hedging activities and its exposures  
to price, interest rate, liquidity, foreign currency and credit risks.  
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with diverse 
revenue streams. As a consequence, the Directors believe 
 that the Group is well placed to manage its business  
risks successfully. 
The Directors closely monitored the material uncertainties 
inherent in current and expected market conditions, the trading 
performance of the Group and the debt instruments issued by 
the Group. 
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company 
has sufficient financial resources to continue operating in the 
foreseeable future, and therefore, continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors:
Richard Gillingwater  Andrew Formica
Chairman   Chief Executive
10 February 2016   10 February 2016
 
Directors’ report continued
90 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ responsibilities statement
In relation to the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts which includes the Directors’ report, the Strategic 
report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial 
statements. The Directors are required to prepare and approve 
the financial statements for the Group and Parent Company  
in accordance with Jersey law for each financial year which show 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period  
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
The Directors have elected to prepare the Group and Company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS).
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that financial 
statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s and 
Company’s financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows. In preparing the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are also required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS  
8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates  
and Errors and then apply them consistently
• Make judgements and accounting estimates that are  
reasonable and prudent
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the  
specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users  
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other  
events and conditions on the Group’s and Company’s  
financial position and financial performance
•  State that the Group and Company have complied with  
IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and  
explained in the financial statements
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the  
Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm they have complied with all the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of 
approving this Directors’ report are listed on pages 52 and 53. 
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Company’s 
auditors, each of these Directors confirms that:
• So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information needed by the Company’s external auditors in 
connection with preparing their report, of which the Company’s 
external auditors are unaware
• The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought  
to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware  
of any relevant audit information needed by the Company’s 
external auditors in connection with preparing their report and 
to establish that the Company’s external auditors are aware  
of that information
• The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any 
time, the financial position of the Group and the Company to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with Jersey law. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and the Company, and for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge:
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group and Company for the 
year ended 31 December 2015
• The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group 
• The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy and is 
fair, balanced and understandable
• The accounting records have been properly maintained. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the corporate and financial information included  
on the Group’s website, www.henderson.com/IR. Legislation  
in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Andrew Formica   Roger Thompson
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
10 February 2016   10 February 2016 
Strategic report Governance
91 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Henderson Group plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Henderson Group plc’s Group financial statements 
and Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and  
of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and  
of the Group’s and the Company’s profit and cash flows  
for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual  
Report, comprise:
• the Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial 
Position as at 31 December 2015;
• the Consolidated and Company Income Statements and the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive 
Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows 
 for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes  
in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include  
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied  
in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable  
law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Context
In planning for our audit, we met with the Audit Committee,  
other Board members and management to discuss and 
understand significant changes during the year and to understand 
their perspectives on associated business risks. We used this 
insight when forming our own views regarding the business  
as part of developing our audit plan.
The Group has continued to grow, both organically and as a result 
of acquisitions. We considered general market conditions and the 
performance of the Group when scoping and performing our 
work, in particular over revenue which is driven by the value  
of assets under management (‘AUM’).
We also focused on the two significant transactions which  
took place during the year being the disposal of the Group’s 
investment in the TH Real Estate joint venture and the acquisition 
of two boutique asset managers (‘Perennial’) in Australia.
Overview
Materiality – Overall Group materiality: £10.6m which 
represents 5% of profit before tax, 
adjusted for the amortisation of intangible 
assets and the gain on disposal of the 
Group’s investment in the TH Real Estate 
joint venture.
Scope – The Group comprises a number of 
subsidiaries, the majority of which are UK 
incorporated entities. 
 – The UK Group engagement team 
conducted all audit work in respect of the 
audit of the Group financial statements, 
including in relation to certain entities 
incorporated overseas as accounting is 
centralised primarily in the UK.
 – Taken together, the subsidiaries and 
functions in the scope of our audit work 
accounted for 96% of Group revenues. 
Our work over the six principal 
subsidiaries accounted for 84% of 
adjusted Group profit before tax which we 
supplemented with procedures over other 
balances in entities across the Group. 
Non-recurring 
areas of focus
 – Disposal of the investment in the TH Real 
Estate joint venture.
 – Acquisition of Perennial business.
Recurring areas 
of focus
 – Recognition of management fees and 
performance fees.
 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
impairment review.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK and Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.  
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias 
by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set 
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not  
a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
92 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Non-recurring areas of focus
We have identified two areas of focus which relate to specific events or transactions which have taken place during the year ended  
31 December 2015. 
Non-recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Disposal of the investment in the TH Real Estate joint venture
  Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee report), note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates and note 1 5.2 for further information.
On 1 June 2015, the Group sold its 40% stake in TH Real 
Estate to TIAA-CREF for £84.3m. The Group’s Investment  
in Associate has therefore been derecognised and a gain  
of £12.3m has been recognised as a non-recurring item. 
Accounting for this disposal was an area of focus due to  
the size of the transaction and the inherent risk of misstatement 
associated with any one off transaction.
 
We tested, without exception, the mathematical accuracy  
of the calculation of the gain as the difference between the 
carrying value of the investment and the consideration received. 
We tested the significant inputs to the calculation, with no 
differences noted, by:
 – Agreeing the consideration received to the Sale and 
Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) and bank statement; and 
 – Recalculating the carrying value of the Investment in 
Associate at 1 June 2015.
We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the 
transaction in the financial statements and read the SPA to 
determine whether there were any additional terms which could 
impact the accounting. Based on our work, the disposal has 
been correctly accounted for and disclosed in accordance  
with accounting standards.
Acquisition of Perennial business
  Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee report), note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates and note 32 for further information.
On 1 November 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share 
capital of Perennial Fixed Interest Partners Pty Ltd and Perennial 
Growth Management Pty Ltd (together ‘Perennial’). An initial 
cash payment of A$76.5m (£35.3m) was made and a further 
amount of between A$nil and A$15m (£nil and £6.9m) is 
payable over four years, contingent on future performance.  
This is currently estimated to have a net present value of A$0.8m 
(£0.4m) resulting in a total cost of A$77 .3m (£35.7m). 
At the time of the acquisition, the Group also agreed to make 
future payments to executives of Perennial contingent on their 
continuing employment and future performance. This is currently 
estimated to be at the mid to lower end of a range of possible 
outcomes. As this is considered remuneration under IFRS, 
rather than consideration for the business, it is recognised  
over the service period. 
Accounting for the Perennial acquisition is an area of focus  
due to the inherent complexities associated with business 
combinations. In particular there is subjectivity regarding future 
performance impacting the valuation of contingent consideration 
and acquired investment management contracts (‘IMCs’).
IMCs and contingent consideration
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation  
models with no differences identified and, for the contingent 
consideration model, we confirmed that the methodology used 
was in accordance with the SPA. We identified the significant 
inputs to the models (investment performance and client 
inflows/outflows) and challenged these assumptions by: 
 – Comparing AUM performance rates with historical 
performance and forecasts for the Australian market;
 – Considering the client attrition rate with reference to the 
average life of a fund based on independent third party 
research and past experiences of businesses acquired.  
For the IMC model we also tested that this was consistent 
with the period of time over which revenue was expected  
to be generated and the amortisation period; and
 – Comparing net inflows/outflows from investors in the 
contingent consideration model with historical results.
Strategic report Governance
93 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
Non-recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition of Perennial business continued
Goodwill
The goodwill is the difference between the net assets acquired 
(including the IMCs) and the consideration paid (including 
contingent amounts).
Remuneration
The valuation is calculated on a similar basis to contingent 
consideration. The terms of the SPA determine whether the 
amounts should be classified as remuneration or consideration.
We performed sensitivity analysis over these assumptions to 
quantify the impact of changing them to reasonably possible 
alternatives. We discussed these alternative assumptions with 
the Directors and the Audit Committee and determined that the 
assumptions are within an acceptable range, although 
uncertainties always exist.
Goodwill
We recalculated the goodwill recognised and agreed the key 
inputs to supporting documentation such as the SPA, the 
valuation models for contingent consideration and IMCs and 
financial information from Perennial. No differences were 
identified and the calculation was mathematically accurate. 
Remuneration
We recalculated the Directors’ valuation of the amounts to be 
paid to key individuals based on the SPA and tested that the 
assumptions were consistent with the IMC and contingent 
consideration models, where appropriate. We also read  
the SPA to ensure that the amounts were contingent on 
continuing in employment and thus appropriately classified  
as remuneration.
We evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the transaction 
in the financial statements and read the SPA to determine 
whether there were any additional terms which could impact  
the accounting or disclosure. Based on our work, the 
acquisition has been correctly accounted for and disclosed  
in accordance with accounting standards.
94 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Recurring areas of focus
There are two areas of focus which we expect to recur each year because they relate to significant balances in the financial statements 
and are an integral part of the business.
Recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recognition of management fees and performance fees
   Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee report), note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements  
and estimates and note 3 for further information.
Management and performance fees are an area of focus due to 
the size and importance of revenue to the Group’s results. The 
existence of multiple fee arrangements on different terms creates 
a further risk that fees may be incorrectly calculated and/or 
recognised in the wrong period.
Fees are calculated as a percentage of AUM, net of any rebates. 
The fee rates vary across different funds and products and, for 
performance fees, are only earned once investment performance 
exceeds a certain level.
Performance fees are inherently more complex as judgement  
can be required to determine whether performance criteria have 
been met, particularly when the performance period runs over 
more than one financial reporting period.
The correct recognition of management and performance fees  
is dependent on:
a)  The fee rate and calculation methodology set out in the 
terms of the underlying contracts between the Group and  
its clients and/or the funds;
b)  The valuation, existence and completeness of the AUM  
of the funds or the client portfolio;
c)  The mathematical accuracy of the fee calculation; and
d)  The posting of the fees to the general ledger, including 
recognition of the fees in the correct period.
 We focused our testing on the following areas:
a) Basis of calculation
We agreed a sample of fee rates and calculation methodologies 
to contracts and did not identify any differences.
b) Accuracy and completeness of AUM
We understood and evaluated the systems, processes and 
controls in place in respect of the valuation and existence of 
AUM and tested the relevant controls on which we sought to 
place reliance. This included testing in-house controls (including 
IT general controls) and obtaining independent third party 
controls reports where functions are outsourced to Third Party 
Administrators (‘TPAs’) or Transfer Agents (‘TAs’). In such 
instances, we read the reports and determined that they were 
appropriate for our purposes. Where the reports did not cover 
the full financial year we obtained bridging letters from the TPAs/
TAs to confirm the relevant controls had continued to operate 
consistently within the gap period and that no deficiencies had 
been identified. The results showed that the relevant controls 
were operating effectively.
c) Fee calculations
We used a combination of data auditing and manual sampling  
to independently recalculate management fees, rebates and 
performance fees. We obtained AUM data from source systems 
at Henderson and/or the TPAs and TAs in our calculations.  
We did not identify any differences as a result of this testing.
d) Posting of fees
We reconciled the fees we recalculated against the general 
ledger postings and investigated differences, where applicable. 
For a sample of fees recognised either side of the year-end  
we tested that they had been recognised in the correct period, 
paying particular attention to performance fees. Based on our 
work, the fees have been correctly calculated and recognised.
We also tested a sample of bank reconciliations and performed 
tests over journals impacting revenue which appeared to  
be unusual. We did not identify any exceptions as a result  
of this testing.
Strategic report Governance
95 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements  
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
the Group operates. 
The Group’s accounting process is structured around a primary finance function in the UK. The UK and overseas finance functions 
maintain their own accounting records but use the same, integrated general ledger system. 
All audit work in relation to the financial statements was performed in the UK by the Group engagement team, including in relation  
to overseas territories such as the US, Luxembourg and Australia where applicable.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined which entities within the Group were of most financial 
significance. We audited the complete financial information of six principal subsidiaries within the Group, each of which contributed  
more than 15% of the profit before tax of the Group. We supplemented this with additional testing over certain balances. This included 
procedures over specific transactions (such as acquisitions and disposals), testing of consolidation adjustments (such as goodwill) and 
certain other balances (such as pensions and debt) which were recognised within entities not considered to be financially significant. 
Taken together, the subsidiaries and functions in the scope of our audit work accounted for 96% of Group revenues. Our work over  
the six principal subsidiaries accounted for 84% of Group profit before tax (adjusted for the amortisation of intangible assets and the 
gain on disposal of the Group’s investment in the TH Real Estate joint venture) which was further supplemented by testing of other 
balances as described above. These combined procedures enabled us to determine that we had obtained sufficient evidence to  
support the opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually 
and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
Recurring area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review
   Refer to page 63 (Audit Committee report), note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates and note 1 4 for further information.
The Group’s intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill of 
£556.7m and IMCs of £109.3m from historical and current  
year acquisitions. Of the total intangible assets, £39.8m relates 
to the current year acquisition of Perennial which has been 
addressed under ‘Acquisition of Perennial business’ on pages 
93 and 94. Intangible assets is the most significant balance  
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position which  
makes this an area of focus. The amounts relating to acquisitions 
which occurred in prior periods are treated as follows: 
Goodwill: Assessed annually for impairment by calculating the 
current ‘value in use’ of the business and comparing this with  
the carrying value. This requires judgements to be made about 
future performance, the most subjective of which are the 
projected future cash flows and the discount rate. The current 
year assessment showed that there was significant headroom 
before an impairment would be required. 
IMCs: Amortised over the period they are expected to generate 
revenue and considered for indicators of impairment at each 
reporting date. The Directors have not identified any impairment 
indicators which may arise if, for example, the value of AUM  
was to decrease at a higher rate than anticipated at the time  
the amortisation period was determined. 
Goodwill
We recalculated the difference between the carrying value and 
the Directors’ valuation of goodwill to test there was sufficient 
headroom. We tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation 
and tested the inputs to the model by:
 – Comparing the cash flow forecasts to the latest Board 
approved five year plans and considering the accuracy of  
the budgeting process with reference to historical forecasts;
 – Challenging the growth rates by reference to economic  
and industry forecasts and historical results; and
 – Challenging the discount rate by comparing it to the cost  
of capital for the Group.
IMCs
We considered whether there was any indication that the  
IMCs may be impaired with reference to recent performance  
and performance since the acquisition dates. No such indicators 
were identified. We also compared the amortisation periods 
being used against the average life of investors and funds  
based on independent third party research and our knowledge 
of the industry.
Sensitivity analysis
We performed sensitivity analysis in respect of goodwill  
and IMCs to consider which changes to assumptions, either 
individually or collectively, could result in an impairment. We 
discussed the likelihood of the analysis with the Directors and, 
although uncertainties always exist with regards to forecasts, the 
Directors’ conclusion that there is no impairment, is consistent 
with the audit evidence obtained.
96 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group 
materiality
£10.6m (2014: £9.8m).
How we  
determined it
5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the amortisation of intangible assets and the gain on disposal of the 
Group’s investment in the TH Real Estate joint venture.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
We adjusted profit before tax to arrive at a profit measure which, in our judgement, is a relevant benchmark  
as it is the key performance measure reported by management and used by others to reflect the underlying 
performance of the business in both its internal and external reporting to stakeholders, including shareholders 
and analysts. These adjustments were:
 – The deduction of the gain on disposal of the Group’s investment in the TH Real Estate joint venture. This was 
adjusted for as it is a non-recurring transaction that is not reflective of the Group’s underlying performance; and
 – The adding back of amortisation of intangible assets. This adjustment has been made to reflect the fact  
that this is a predictable, recurring charge which has arisen as a result of acquisition accounting. It is also 
non-cash and is not reflective of the underlying performance of the business. 
The adjusted profit before tax benchmark is the profit measure against which the Group’s performance  
is more commonly measured and was communicated to the Audit Committee.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.5m  
(2014: £0.4m) as well as any misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation  
to the Directors’ responsibilities statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of that statement. 
As noted in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern  
basis in preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources 
to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were 
signed. As part of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group  
and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group  
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
The statement given by the Directors on page 91, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced  
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and 
Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 62 to 65 , as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the 
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
The Directors’ confirmation on page 59 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code,  
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten their business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed  
or mitigated.
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
The Directors’ explanation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code,  
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation  
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
Strategic report Governance
97 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Henderson Group plc continued
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in 
relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 
59. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and 
only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors’ 
process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether 
the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to 
report having performed our review.
Propriety of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, we are required  
to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
• proper accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company; or
• proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance statement
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part  
of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the 10 further 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
Other voluntary reporting
Opinion on other matters 
In our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement 
set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied  
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for,  
and only for, the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for  
no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept  
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands  
it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent  
in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free  
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing  
the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming  
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary  
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.  
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness  
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with  
the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course  
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Parwinder Purewal
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors 
London, 10 February 2016
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Henderson Group plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept 
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom and Jersey governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
98 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Contents
100 Consolidated Income Statement
101 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
102 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
103 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
104 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
105 Company Income Statement 
105 Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
105 Company Statement of Financial Position
106 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
106 Company Statement of Cash Flows
107 Notes to the Financial Statements
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Strategic report Financial statements
99 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Notes
Underlying 
profit  
£m
Acquisition 
related and 
non-recurring 
items (note 7) 
£m
Total  
£m
Underlying  
profit  
£m
Acquisition 
related and 
non-recurring 
items (note 7) 
£m
Total  
£m
Income
Gross fee and deferred income 3 756.0 – 756.0 651.2 – 651.2
Commissions and deferred acquisition costs 3 (154.2) – (154.2) (132.4) – (132.4)
Net fee income 601.8 – 601.8 518.8 – 518.8
(Loss)/income from associates  
and joint ventures 15.2 (0.2) (0.5) (0.7) 5.1 (7 .2) (2.1)
Finance income 3 17.3 12.4 29.7 10.1 11.5 21.6
Net income from continuing operations 618.9 11.9 630.8 534.0 4.3 538.3
Expenses 
Operating expenses 4.1 (381.6) (5.9) (387 .5) (329.9) (1.3) (331.2)
Amortisation and depreciation (5.2) (56.2) (61.4) (4.7) (53.7) (58.4)
Total operating expenses (386.8) (62.1) (448.9) (334.6) (55.0) (389.6)
Finance expenses 6 (12.1) (1.9) (14.0) (11.6) (1.5) (13.1)
Total expenses from continuing operations (398.9) (64.0) (462.9) (346.2) (56.5) (402.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax from  
continuing operations 220.0 (52.1) 167.9 187 .8 (52.2) 135.6
Tax (charge)/credit on continuing operations (22.9) 16.2 (6.7) (20.6) 11.9 (8.7)
Profit/(loss) after tax from  
continuing operations 197.1 (35.9) 161.2 167 .2 (40.3) 126.9
Discontinued operation
Profit before tax 9.1 – – – 7.6 140.2 147 .8
Tax charge 9.1 – – – (1.3) (14.9) (16.2)
Profit after tax from discontinued operation – – – 6.3 125.3 131.6
Profit/(loss) before tax from  
total operations 220.0 (52.1) 167.9 195.4 88.0 283.4
Tax (charge)/credit on total operations 8 (22.9) 16.2 (6.7) (21.9) (3.0) (24.9)
Profit/(loss) after tax attributable to  
owners of the parent 197.1 (35.9) 161.2 173.5 85.0 258.5
Total profit attributable to owners of the 
parent arises from:
Continuing operations 161.2 126.9
Discontinued operation – 131.6
161.2 258.5
Basic and diluted earnings per share  
from continuing operations
Basic 10.3 14.7p 11.7p
Diluted 10.3 14.1p 11.1p
Basic and diluted earnings per share  
from total operations
Basic 10.4 14.7p 23.8p
Diluted 10.4 14.1p 22.7p
100 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit after tax 161.2 258.5
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that may be reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8.8 0.1
Exchange differences transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of foreign 
operations 0.5 (1.9)
Available-for-sale financial assets:
Net gains on revaluation 14.8 3.5
Reclassification to the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal (9.6) (6.7)
Reclassification to the Consolidated Income Statement on impairment due to distribution – 0.6
Tax effect of revaluation – 0.1
Items that will not be reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement
Actuarial (losses)/gains:
On defined benefit pension schemes (after tax deducted at source) 21.2 (2.9) 17.6
On other items – 0.1
Tax effect of actuarial (losses)/gains (0.1) 0.1
Other comprehensive income after tax 11.5 13.5
Total comprehensive income after tax 172.7 272.0
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 164.0 273.6
Non-controlling interests 8.7 (1.6)
172.7 272.0
Strategic report Financial statements
101 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 680.6 677 .9
Investments accounted for using the equity method 2.9 74.4
Property and equipment 16 14.4 15.1
Retirement benefit assets 21.2 130.0 128.1
Deferred tax assets 23 37.5 36.0
Trade and other receivables 18 0.1 1.3
 865.5 932.8
Current assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 17 64.6 71.0
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 17 145.7 35.9
Current tax assets 0.9 2.3
Trade and other receivables 18 232.7 275.9
Cash and cash equivalents 19.1 381.6 234.5
  825.5 619.6
Assets classified as held for sale 9.2 – 84.8
Total assets 1,691.0 1,637 .2
Non-current liabilities
Debt instrument in issue 20 – 149.4
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 17 22.6 31.4
Trade and other payables 24 10.7 13.2
Retirement benefit obligations 21.2 8.1 8.5
Provisions 22 10.0 9.7
Deferred tax liabilities 23 31.6 38.9
 83.0 251.1
Current liabilities
Debt instrument in issue 20 149.9 –
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 17 96.7 25.8
Trade and other payables 24 291.3 290.2
Provisions 22 1.9 3.1
Current tax liabilities 20.5 23.0
  560.3 342.1
Liabilities classified as held for sale 9.2 – 26.0
Total liabilities 643.3 619.2
Net assets 1,047 .7 1,018.0
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25.2 141.5 142.4
Share premium 747.9 743.9
Own shares held (106.9) (94.7)
Translation reserve 6.3 (1.7)
Revaluation reserve 7.6 9.8
Profit and loss reserve  240.7 216.4
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,037 .1 1,016.1
Non-controlling interests 10.6 1.9
Total equity  1,047 .7 1,018.0
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 10 February 2016. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
102 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share 
capital  
£m
Share 
premium  
£m
Own  
shares  
held  
£m
Translation 
reserve  
£m
Revaluation 
reserve  
£m
Profit and 
loss  
reserve  
£m
Equity 
attributable to 
owners of the 
parent  
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests  
£m
Total 
equity  
£m
At 1 January 2014 140.4 708.6 (69.4) 0.1 10.7 41.9 832.3 4.0 836.3
Profit after tax – – – – – 258.5 258.5 – 258.5
Other comprehensive (expense)/income 
after tax – – – (1.8) (0.9) 17.8 15.1 (1.6) 13.5
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 
after tax – – – (1.8) (0.9) 276.3 273.6 (1.6) 272.0
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – – – (92.9) (92.9) – (92.9)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Purchase of own shares for employee 
share schemes – – (33.0) – – – (33.0) – (33.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 44.2 – – (44.2) – – –
Issue of shares for share schemes 2.0 35.3 (36.5) – – – 0.8 – 0.8
Movement in equity-settled share  
scheme expenses – – – – – 35.3 35.3 – 35.3
At 31 December 2014 142.4 743.9 (94.7) (1.7) 9.8 216.4 1,016.1 1.9 1,018.0
Profit after tax – – – – – 161.2 161.2 – 161.2
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 
after tax – – – 8.0 (2.2) (3.0) 2.8 8.7 11.5
Total comprehensive income/(expense)  
after tax – – – 8.0 (2.2) 158.2 164.0 8.7 172.7
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – – – (105.4) (105.4) – (105.4)
Purchase of own shares for employee 
share schemes – – (63.0) – – – (63.0) – (63.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 55.0 – – (55.0) – – –
Issue of shares for share schemes 0.2 4.0 (4.2) – – – – – –
Movement in equity-settled share  
scheme expenses – – – – – 39.2 39.2 – 39.2
Tax on equity-settled share schemes – – – – – 11.2 11.2 – 11.2
Purchase and cancellation of shares (1.1) – – – – (23.9) (25.0) – (25.0)
At 31 December 2015 141.5 747.9 (106.9) 6.3 7.6 240.7 1,037 .1 10.6 1,047 .7
Strategic report Financial statements
103 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 19.2 269.8 123.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (37 .8) (76.1)
Proceeds from disposal of:
 – Property business, net of cash disposed – 104.7
 – interests in associates 84.3 13.7
 – net available-for-sale financial assets – consolidated funds – 17.5
 – available-for-sale financial assets – seed capital 26.6 17.2
 – financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – seed capital 3.5 –
 – plant and equipment – 0.4
Dividends from associates and distributions from joint ventures and funds 1.6 3.8
Purchases of:
 – net financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – consolidated funds (26.4) (72.0)
 – available-for-sale financial assets – seed capital – (1.9)
 – property and equipment 16 (1.9) (1.6)
 – computer software intangible assets 14 (6.0) (4.1)
 – investment management contracts (2.6) –
 – interests in associates and joint ventures (4.0) (0.8)
Net cash flows generated from investing activities 37.3 0.8
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares 10.3 7.3
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes (63.0) (33.0)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 12 (105.4) (92.9)
Interest paid on debt instruments in issue (10.9) (10.9)
Non-controlling interests’ investments in consolidated funds 21.5 16.6
Purchase of shares (25.0) –
Net cash flows used in financing activities (172.5) (112.9)
Effects of exchange rate changes 4.2 (0.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 138.8 10.5
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 242.8 232.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 381.6 242.8
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 19.1 381.6 234.5
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale 9.2 – 8.3
Total cash and cash equivalents 381.6 242.8
104 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Company Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Dividends received 277.0 98.4
Administration expenses (4.8) (3.0)
Profit before tax 272.2 95.4
Tax 8 – –
Profit after tax 272.2 95.4
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit after tax 272.2 95.4
Total comprehensive income after tax 272.2 95.4
Company Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 15.1 1,029.8 1,030.8
  1,029.8 1,030.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 8.8 2.6
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 17 41.7 34.6
Cash and cash equivalents 19.1 7.2 7.3
  57.7 44.5
Total assets 1,087 .5 1,075.3
Liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 9.4 7.8
Current financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 18.8 18.3
Current trade and other payables 24 21.2 129.1
Total liabilities 49.4 155.2
Net assets 1,038.1 920.1
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25.2 141.5 142.4
Share premium 747.9 743.9
Own shares held (106.9) (94.7)
Profit and loss reserve 255.6 128.5
Total equity  1,038.1 920.1
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 10 February 2016. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
Strategic report Financial statements
105 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share  
capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
£m
Own shares 
held  
£m
Profit and  
loss reserve 
 £m
Total  
equity  
£m
At 1 January 2014 140.4 708.6 (69.4) 134.9 914.5
Total comprehensive income after tax – – – 95.4 95.4
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – (92.9) (92.9)
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes – – (33.0) – (33.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 44.2 (44.2) –
Issue of shares for share schemes 2.0 35.3 (36.5) – 0.8
Movement in equity-settled share scheme expenses – – – 35.3 35.3
At 31 December 2014 142.4 743.9 (94.7) 128.5 920.1
Total comprehensive income after tax – – – 272.2 272.2
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – (105.4) (105.4)
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes – – (63.0) – (63.0)
Vesting of share schemes – – 55.0 (55.0) –
Issue of shares for share schemes 0.2 4.0 (4.2) – –
Movement in equity-settled share scheme expenses – – – 39.2 39.2
Purchase and cancellation of shares (1.1) – – (23.9) (25.0)
At 31 December 2015 141.5 747.9 (106.9) 255.6 1,038.1
Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash flows generated from operating activities
Profit before tax 272.2 95.4
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 19.3 (89.2) 21.7
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 183.0 117 .1
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares 10.3 7.3
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes (63.0) (33.0)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (105.4) (92.9)
Purchase of shares (25.0) –
Net cash flows used in financing activities (183.1) (118.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (0.1) (1.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 7.3 8.8
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 19.1 7.2 7.3
106 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements
Group and Company
1.  Authorisation of financial statements and 
statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
Directors on 10 February 2016 and the respective statements  
of financial position were signed on the Board’s behalf by the 
Chairman. Henderson Group plc is a public limited company 
incorporated in Jersey and tax resident and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded  
on the LSE and CDIs are traded on the ASX. 
The Group and Company financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations 
Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European 
Union and the provisions of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
2. Accounting policies
2.1 Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Group and Company financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost 
basis, except for certain financial instruments that have been 
measured at fair value. 
The Group and Company financial statements are presented  
in GBP and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred 
thousand pounds (£0.1m), except when otherwise indicated.
See the glossary to the Annual Report for definitions of certain 
accounting terms used in these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise  
the financial statements of Henderson Group plc and its interests 
in subsidiaries and consolidated structured entities (together 
consolidated entities), associates and joint ventures as at  
31 December each year. 
The financial statements of all the Group’s significant consolidated 
entities are prepared to the same year end date as that of the 
Company. The financial statements of all material consolidated 
entities are prepared under either IFRS or local GAAP. Where 
prepared under local GAAP, balances reported by consolidated 
entities are adjusted to meet IFRS requirements for the purpose 
of the consolidated financial statements.
The results of consolidated entities acquired or disposed of during 
the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from 
the effective date of acquisition, being the date on which the 
Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the 
date that the control ceases. Control is achieved when the Group 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with an entity and has the ability to affect those returns through  
its power over the entity.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an entity if facts 
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more 
of the elements of control.
The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
income are attributed to the owners of the parent of the Group 
and to any non-controlling interests. All intra-group assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between members of the Group are eliminated  
in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated  
entity, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction. If the Group loses control over a consolidated entity,  
it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, 
non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any 
resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
Interests in private equity funds and open-ended pooled  
funds, such as OEICs, unit trusts and absolute return funds,  
are accounted for as subsidiaries, consolidated structured entities 
or other financial investments depending on the economic interest 
of the Group assessed via fees earned and equity holdings and on 
the level of influence and control that the Group exercises through 
investment management and other contractual agreements. The 
Group’s investment in associates, where the Group has the ability 
to exercise significant influence as well as joint ventures where 
there is joint control, are accounted for using the equity method  
of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, the Group 
presents its share of its economic interest in these investments  
in the financial statements.
Presentation of the Consolidated Income Statement 
The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation  
of its Consolidated Income Statement. The columnar format 
enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the 
understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year  
before certain acquisition related and non-recurring items.  
This is the profit measure used to calculate EPS on underlying 
profit (refer to note 10) and is considered to be most appropriate 
as it better reflects the Group’s underlying trading performance. 
Profit before acquisition related and non-recurring items is 
reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the Consolidated 
Income Statement. 
The column ‘Acquisition related and non-recurring  
items’ comprises: 
• acquisition related items: the amortisation of intangible assets, 
fair value changes and finance charges on contingent deferred 
consideration on business combinations, long-term 
remuneration plans recognised as part of a business 
combination and void property finance charges; and 
• non-recurring items: deemed to be one-off and material,  
when considering both size and nature.
These items are disclosed separately to give a clearer 
presentation of the Group’s results and are analysed further  
in note 7 .
Strategic report Financial statements
107 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
2.1 Significant accounting policies continued
Re-presentation of liabilities
In 2015, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, 
excluding provisions, are shown separately from within trade  
and other payables where they have been previously presented. 
As a result, £31.4m and £25.8m have been transferred from 
non-current and current trade and other payables respectively  
in the 2014 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
In addition, £7 .8m and £18.3m have been transferred from 
non-current and current trade and other payables respectively  
in the 2014 Company Statement of Financial Position. 
Income recognition
Gross fee income 
Fee income includes management fees and performance fees 
(including earned carried interest), net of rebates. Management 
fees are recognised in the accounting period in which the 
associated investment management service is provided. 
Performance fees are recognised when the prescribed 
performance hurdles are achieved and it is probable that  
a fee will crystallise as a result. 
Commissions
Commissions on management fees are accounted for on an 
accruals basis and are recognised in the accounting period  
in which the associated management fee is earned.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses are accrued and recognised as incurred.
Finance income and expenses
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective 
interest rate method. Other net investment income is recognised 
on the date that the right to receive payment has been 
established. The net interest credit on the Group’s retirement 
benefit asset has been recognised in finance income.
Finance expenses are recognised on an accruals basis.
Post-employment retirement benefits
The Group provides employees with retirement benefits  
through both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. 
The assets of these schemes are held separately, from the 
Group’s general assets, in trustee administered funds. 
Defined benefit obligations and the cost of providing benefits are 
determined annually by independent qualified actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. 
The obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated 
future cash outflows using a discount rate based on AA rated 
corporate bond yields of appropriate duration. The resulting 
surplus or deficit of defined benefit assets less liabilities is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, 
net of any taxes that would be deducted at source. The Group’s 
expense relating to the defined benefit schemes is recognised 
over the employees’ service lives, based upon the actuarial cost 
for the accounting period, having considered the net interest 
credit or cost on the net defined benefit asset or liability. 
Recognised actuarial gains and losses are included in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the 
accounting period in which they occur, net of any taxes that  
would be deducted at source. Normal contributions to the defined 
contribution scheme are expensed in the Consolidated Income 
Statement as and when they become payable. 
Share-based payment transactions
The Group issues share-based awards to employees, all of which 
are classified as equity-settled share-based payments. Equity-
settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of 
the shares at the grant date. The awards are expensed, with a 
corresponding increase in reserves, on either a straight-line basis 
or a graded basis (depending on vesting conditions) over the 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest. Based on the Group’s estimate, the determination 
of fair value, using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model at the 
date of grant is adjusted for the effects of market performance  
and behavioural considerations.
Income taxes
The Group provides for current tax expense according to the tax 
laws in each jurisdiction in which it operates, using tax rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the reporting 
date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred  
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised on goodwill but are recognised  
on separately identifiable intangible assets, where appropriate. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow  
all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax liabilities  
are not recognised for taxable differences arising on investments 
in consolidated entities, branches, associates and joint ventures 
where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences and where the reversal of the temporary 
differences is not anticipated in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected  
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset  
is realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Income tax relating to items recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity is also recognised in the respective statement 
and not in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Sales taxes
Income and expenses are recognised net of sales taxes, except 
where the sales tax is irrecoverable, in which case the sales tax  
is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of an asset or as  
an expense. Receivables and payables are stated with the amount 
of sales taxes included. The net amount of sales tax recoverable 
from, or payable to, the tax authority, is included within receivables 
or payables in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
108 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is GBP. Transactions  
in foreign currencies are recorded at the appropriate exchange 
rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency 
monetary balances at the reporting date are converted at the 
prevailing exchange rate. Foreign currency non-monetary balances 
carried at fair value or cost are translated at the rates prevailing  
at the date when the fair value or cost is determined. Gains and 
losses arising on retranslation are taken to the Consolidated 
Income Statement, except for available-for-sale financial assets 
where the unhedged changes in fair value are recognised in  
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s 
overseas operations whose functional currency is not GBP  
are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Income and expense items are recognised at daily exchange rates 
for the accounting period. Exchange differences arising, if any,  
are taken through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income to the translation reserve. Where net investment hedge 
accounting is applied using forward foreign currency contracts, 
the fair value movement on these contracts is also recognised 
within the translation reserve. In the period in which an operation 
is disposed of, translation differences previously recognised in  
the translation reserve are recognised in the Consolidated  
Income Statement.
Business combinations
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the 
acquirer. The fair value of a business combination is calculated  
at the acquisition date by recognising the acquiree’s identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the 
recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date. The acquisition 
date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control  
of the acquiree. The cost of a business combination in excess of 
fair value of net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including 
intangible assets identified, is recognised as goodwill. Any costs 
incurred in relation to a business combination are expensed  
as incurred. 
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, 
is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the 
business combination, and discounted where the time value  
of money is material. The determination of the fair value is based 
on discounted cash flows, with the key assumptions being the 
probability of meeting each performance target and the discount 
factor applied. When the contingent consideration meets the 
definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently remeasured  
to fair value at each reporting date through the Consolidated 
Income Statement, along with finance charges where discounting 
has been applied. 
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position. Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 
1 January 2004 is carried at its value on 1 January 2004 less any 
subsequent impairments. 
Goodwill arising on investments in associates and joint  
ventures is included within the carrying value of the equity 
accounted investments.
Where goodwill forms part of an entity or sub-group and  
the entity or sub-group or part thereof is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the entity or sub-group disposed of is included in 
the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or 
loss on disposal. 
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently  
if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired. For this purpose, management prepares a valuation 
for the Group’s cash generating unit based on its value in use.  
The value in use is based on forecasts approved by the Board, 
extrapolated for expected future growth rates and discounted  
at a risk-adjusted discount rate based on the Group’s pre-tax 
weighted average cost of capital. Where the value in use is less 
than the carrying amount, an impairment is recognised. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately through the Consolidated 
Income Statement and cannot subsequently be reversed. 
Investment management contracts
Investment management contracts have been identified as  
a separately identifiable intangible asset arising on the acquisition  
of subsidiaries. Such contracts are recognised at the present value 
of the expected future cash flows of the investment management 
contracts at the date of acquisition. The intangible asset is then 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected life of the 
contracts, currently estimated at between three and eight years.
Computer software
The costs of purchasing and developing computer software are 
capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits that 
are attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the cost  
of the assets can be measured reliably. Computer software is 
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over  
a period of three to seven years. 
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments by the Company in subsidiary undertakings are held 
at cost less any impairment in value where circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Equity accounted investments
The Group’s investment in associates, where the Group has the 
ability to exercise significant influence, as well as joint ventures, 
where there is joint control, are accounted for using the equity 
method of accounting. Investments are recognised initially at cost 
where purchased for cash, or at the fair value of shares received 
where acquired as part of a wider transaction. The investments 
are subsequently carried at cost adjusted for the Group’s share  
of profits or losses and other changes in comprehensive income 
of the associate or joint venture, less any dividends or distributions 
received by the Group. The Consolidated Income Statement 
includes the Group’s share of profits or losses after tax for  
the year, or period of ownership, if shorter.
Strategic report Financial statements
109 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
2.1  Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of assets (excluding goodwill  
and financial assets)
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is  
any indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator 
of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of the 
recoverable amount, being the higher of an asset’s fair value  
less costs to sell, and its value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their net present  
value using a risk-adjusted discount rate based on the Group’s 
post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Discontinued operation
During 2014, the Group presented its Property business as  
a discontinued operation with its results excluded from those  
of continuing operations in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Transaction costs, net of tax, incurred by the Group due to the 
disposal of the Property business, were also included within  
the discontinued operation line in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. Management determined that the Property business 
represented a major line of business and therefore reported  
it as a discontinued operation.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value in  
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group 
becomes party to the contractual provisions of an instrument. The 
fair value recognised is adjusted for transaction costs, except for 
financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, where 
transaction costs are immediately recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the 
rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired  
or where they have been transferred and the Group has also 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial liabilities cease to be recognised when the obligation 
under the liability has been discharged or cancelled or  
has expired.
Financial assets
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised at the 
trade date, being the date when the purchase or sale becomes 
contractually due for settlement. Delivery and settlement terms  
are usually determined by established practices in the  
market concerned.
Debt securities, equity securities and holdings in authorised 
collective investment schemes are designated as either fair value 
through profit or loss or available-for-sale and are measured at 
subsequent reporting dates at fair value. The Group determines 
the classification of its financial assets on initial recognition. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 
comprise the Group’s manager box positions in OEICs and unit 
trusts, investments in the Group’s fund products held by employee 
benefit trusts and investments designated as fair value through 
profit or loss relating to the initial seeding of funds. Where 
securities are designated as fair value through profit or loss,  
gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included  
in the Consolidated Income Statement. Where investments in  
the Group’s fund products are held against outstanding deferred 
compensation liabilities, any movement in the fair value of these 
assets will be offset by a corresponding movement in the deferred 
compensation liability in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets
For available-for-sale financial assets, gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value which are not part of a designated 
hedge relationship are recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. When an asset is disposed of, the 
cumulative changes in fair value, previously recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, are taken  
to the Consolidated Income Statement in the current  
accounting period.
Unrealised gains and losses on financial assets represent  
the difference between the fair value of financial assets at the 
reporting date and cost or, if these have been previously revalued, 
the fair value at the last reporting date. Realised gains and losses 
on financial assets are calculated as the difference between the 
net sale proceeds and cost or amortised cost. 
Where a fall in the value of an investment is prolonged or 
significant, it is considered an indication of impairment. In such  
an event, the investment is written down to fair value and the 
amounts previously recognised in the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income in respect of cumulative changes  
in fair value, are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement  
as an impairment charge.
Trade and other receivables and cash
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 day payment terms, 
are initially recognised at fair value, normally equivalent to the 
invoice amount. When the time value of money is material, the  
fair value is discounted. Provision for specific doubtful debts is 
made when there is evidence that the Group may not be able  
to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the 
receivable amount is deemed irrecoverable.
Cash amounts represent cash in hand and on-demand deposits. 
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid government 
securities or investments in money market instruments with  
a maturity date of three months or less.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, excluding deferred consideration, provisions, 
derivatives, fund deferral liabilities and non-controlling interests  
in consolidated funds, are stated at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated  
by taking into account any issue costs and any discount  
or premium on settlement.
110 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Provisions
Provisions which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount,  
are recognised when: the Group has a present obligation, legal  
or constructive, as a result of a past event, it is probable that  
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount. In the event that the time value of money is 
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at a discount rate that reflects a current market 
assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. When discounting, the increase  
in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as  
a finance charge.
Non-controlling interests in consolidated funds
For consolidated funds where a non-controlling interest is present, 
the non-controlling interest is presented as a liability where there 
is an obligation on the fund to repurchase units at the investor’s 
request and is recognised in financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss. Where the assets of the fund are  
presented as held for sale, the non-controlling interest  
is presented within held for sale liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group may, from time to time, use derivative financial 
instruments to hedge against price, interest rate, foreign currency 
and credit risk. Derivative financial instruments are classified as 
financial assets when the fair value is positive or as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
At the inception of a hedge, the Group formally designates and 
documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to 
apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and 
strategy for undertaking the hedge. Such hedges are expected to 
be effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value and are 
assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they have been 
effective throughout the reporting periods for which they were 
designated and are expected to remain effective over the 
remaining hedge period.
Forward foreign currency contracts that are used to hedge the 
currency nominal value of certain non-GBP denominated financial 
assets are classified as fair value hedges. The change in the fair 
value of a hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. The change in the fair value of the hedged 
item, attributable to the risk being hedged, is also recognised  
in the Consolidated Income Statement, offsetting the fair value 
changes arising on the designated hedge instrument.
Fair value estimation
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value of financial 
instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded 
securities and derivatives) is based on quoted market prices  
at the reporting date. The quoted market price used for financial 
instruments is the last traded market price for both financial assets 
and financial liabilities where the last traded price falls within the 
bid-ask spread. In circumstances where the last traded price is 
not within the bid-ask spread, management will determine the 
point within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair 
value current bid price. The fair value of financial instruments that 
are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation 
techniques commonly used by market participants, including the 
use of comparable recent arm’s length transactions, discounted 
cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Equity shares
The Company’s ordinary equity shares of 12.5 pence each are 
classified as equity instruments. Equity shares issued by the 
Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received 
or the market price on the day of issue. Direct issue costs, net of 
tax, are deducted from equity through share premium. When share 
capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including 
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Purchase of own shares 
Own shares held
Own shares held are equity shares of the Company acquired  
by or issued to employee benefit trusts. Own shares held are 
recorded at cost and are deducted from equity. No gain or loss  
is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on the 
purchase, issue, sale or cancellation of the Company’s own  
equity shares. 
Share buyback programmes
Shares purchased as part of a share buyback programme  
are immediately cancelled. The nominal value of each share 
purchased and cancelled is debited against share capital and  
the remaining balance, being the difference between the price 
paid per share and the nominal value, is debited against the  
profit and loss reserve.
Dividend recognition
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are 
recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are 
paid and, in the case of final dividends, when these are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders at the AGM. Dividend 
distributions are recognised in equity.
Investing activities in consolidated funds re-presentation
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows now presents 
additions and disposals in financial instruments made by 
consolidated funds on a net basis within investing activities  
as these funds invest and divest investments frequently for trading 
purposes. The 2014 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has 
been re-presented to reflect this change with the reported figures 
relating to seed capital additions of £77 .1m and disposals of 
£37 .9m separated out on the following lines: (a) proceeds from 
disposal of net available-for-sale financial assets – consolidated 
funds; (b) proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial 
assets – seed capital; (c) purchases of net financial assets at  
fair value through profit or loss – consolidated funds; and (d) 
purchases of available-for-sale financial assets – seed capital. 
There is no impact on reported cash flows from investing activities.
Strategic report Financial statements
111 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
2.2  Significant accounting judgements, estimates  
and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
management has made significant judgements involving 
estimations and assumptions which are summarised below:
Acquisition of Geneva Capital Management LLC 
The acquisition of Geneva Capital Management LLC (Geneva) 
requires certain judgements and estimates to be made around  
the future performance of the business when accounting for  
the contingent deferred consideration payable in the future.  
The contingent deferred consideration is calculated in two 
tranches and payable over six years on an annual basis if  
revenue retention and growth targets are achieved. Management 
has estimated the revenue of the business over the six year period 
to arrive at a discounted liability which is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
In arriving at the recognised liability, management has applied 
estimates, including market growth rates based on long-term  
US equity data, expectations about the product range and growth 
potential of the business post acquisition and net flow data using 
client-specific information and other assumptions supported by 
management’s industry knowledge. 
Acquisition of Perennial 
The acquisition of Perennial required certain judgements  
and estimates to be made around the future performance of  
the business when accounting for the investment management 
contracts acquired. The key estimates applied in valuing the 
investment management contracts were market growth and 
attrition rates which have been based around industry data  
for equities and fixed income and data specific to the  
acquired business. 
Impairment of intangible assets
Goodwill and investment management contracts are reviewed  
for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indicators 
that the carrying value may be impaired.
The judgement exercised by management in arriving at these 
valuations includes the selection of market growth rates, fund  
flow assumptions, expected margins and costs. Further details  
on these assumptions are given in note 14.
Share-based payment transactions
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled share schemes  
at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them over the 
vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of shares that  
will eventually vest.
Consolidation of funds
From time to time, the Group invests seed capital on the launch  
of products, such as OEICs, SICAVs, hedge funds and private 
equity funds and other investment vehicles. The seed capital 
investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the 
investment. The Group reviews the size and nature of these 
investments to consider its level of influence or control over the 
underlying funds to warrant accounting for them using the equity 
method, consolidating them into the Group’s financial statements 
or classifying them as investments carried at fair value. 
Where the Group does not control the fund it holds seed capital 
investments in, the Group is also not deemed to hold significant 
influence over these funds. As the seed capital investments are 
intended to help establish a fund track record and provide 
sufficient capital until a fund has sufficient external client capital,  
it is more appropriate for the Group’s interest to be shown as 
either an available-for-sale financial asset or a financial asset 
carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Interests in other entities
The Group has assessed whether the funds it manages are 
structured entities. The Group has considered the voting rights 
and other similar rights afforded to other parties in these funds 
including the rights to remove the Group as fund manager, 
liquidate the funds or redeem holdings in the funds and has 
concluded as to whether these rights are the dominant factor  
in deciding who controls the funds.
The Group has judged that its pooled investment funds are 
structured entities unless substantive removal or liquidation  
rights exist. Further details are provided in note 15.
Pension and other post-employment benefits
The costs of, and period end obligations under, defined benefit 
pension schemes are determined using actuarial valuations. The 
actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount 
rates, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the long-term nature of these schemes, such 
estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Further details  
are given in note 21.
Provisions
By their nature, provisions often reflect significant levels  
of judgement or estimates by management. The nature and 
amount of the provisions included in the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position are detailed in note 22 and contingencies  
not provided for are disclosed in note 31. 
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the losses can be utilised. Significant judgement is 
required by management in determining the amount of deferred 
tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing 
and level of future taxable profits and the likely timing of deduction 
of the relevant expenses.
Held for sale classification 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group classified assets and 
liabilities of consolidated seed capital investments invested  
in 2014 as held for sale, on the basis that the seed capital 
investments would be redeemed within a year. During the period, 
it has been identified that redeeming a seed capital investment 
within a year is less than probable unless there is specific 
information available about a redemption on a certain seed capital 
investment. This change in estimate by management is based on 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
112 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 the length of time exceeding one year to build a track record that 
is sufficient to fully dispose of these investments. Based on this 
change in assumption, the Group has transferred the assets and 
liabilities that were held for sale as at 31 December 2014 to their 
respective line items in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position as at 31 December 2015. 
2.3 Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted in this Annual Report are 
consistent with those of the previous financial year. 
2.4 Future changes in accounting policies
A number of new standards and amendments to standards  
and interpretations are effective for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2016. The following new standards are not applicable 
to these financial statements but are expected to have an impact 
when they become effective. The Group plans to apply these 
standards in the reporting period in which they become effective. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements  
for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge 
accounting. This standard is currently expected to become 
effective in 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers requires 
revenue to be recognised at an amount that reflects the 
consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange 
for transferring services to a customer. This standard is currently 
expected to become effective in 2018.
IFRS 16 Leases requires a lessee to recognise lease assets  
and liabilities, currently accounted for as operating leases,  
on the balance sheet and recognise amortisation of lease assets 
and interest on lease liabilities over the lease term. This standard 
is currently expected to become effective in 2019.
IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are subject to endorsement  
from the European Union.
The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards  
on the Group’s future financial statements.
3. Income
Group
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Gross fee and deferred income 
Gross fee income 754.6 648.9
Amortisation of deferred income 1.4 2.3
756.0 651.2
Commissions and deferred acquisition costs
Commissions and fees payable (150.1) (130.5)
Amortisation of deferred acquisition and commission costs (4.1) (1.9)
(154.2) (132.4)
Net fee income 601.8 518.8
Loss from associates and joint ventures 15.2 (0.7) (2.1)
Finance income
Interest on cash and cash equivalents 1.0 0.8
Gain on sale of associate 7 12.3 11.5
Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 11.0 3.9
Loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (1.2) (1.1)
Other net investment income 1.8 2.0
Net interest credit on defined benefit pension schemes 21.2 4.8 4.5
 29.7 21.6
Net income from continuing operations 630.8 538.3
Strategic report Financial statements
113 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
4. Expenses
4.1 Operating expenses
Group 
Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Employee compensation and benefits 5.2 273.0 233.4
Investment administration 31.6 30.2
Information technology 19.8 17.6
Operating leases 7.7 6.9
Office expenses 9.3 8.1
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 3.2 (3.5)
Other expenses 42.9 38.5
Operating expenses from continuing operations 387.5 331.2
Other expenses include marketing, travel and subsistence, legal and professional costs and irrecoverable indirect taxes. 
4.2 Auditors’ remuneration
Group and Company
This note discloses the total remuneration payable to the Group’s auditors. 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Fees payable to PwC for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.1
Fees payable to PwC and their associates for other services:
 – statutory audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.6 0.5
 – audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2
 – other assurance services 0.3 0.2
 – tax services – 0.1
Total fees 1.5 1.1
The above analysis reflects the amounts billed by PwC or accrued by the Group in 2015. Included in the fees payable to the Group’s 
auditors for the audit of the Group’s 2015 consolidated financial statements are fees of £29,411 for the audit of the Company’s 2015 
financial statements (2014: £28,544). 
Audit related assurance services include the half year review of the Group’s interim results, the auditors’ regulatory engagements covering 
client assets and a review of the European Economic Area consolidated group. Other assurance services primarily relate to the work on 
the Group’s AAF controls report. The Group has strict policies in place that restrict the use of the Group’s auditors with respect to 
non-audit services.
5. Employee compensation and benefits
5.1 Number of employees
Group 
The number of full-time employees was as follows:
Average
1
As at 31 December
1
2015  
no.
2014  
no.
2015  
no.
2014  
no.
Number of employees relating to continuing operations 955 875 1,016 922
Number of employees relating to total operations 955 928 1,016 922
Note:
1. Excluding those working on capitalised projects.
Company
The Company has no full-time employees. Non-executive directors of the Company are not classified as full-time employees.
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
114 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 5.2 Analysis of employee compensation and benefits expense
Employee compensation and benefits expense comprises the following:
Group Company
 Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Salaries, wages and bonuses 196.2 175.3 0.7 0.3
Share-based payments 11.2 28.9 27.4 – –
Social security costs 39.2 24.1 0.1 –
Pension service cost 8.7 6.6 – –
Employee compensation and benefits expense  
from continuing operations 273.0 233.4 0.8 0.3
6. Finance expenses
Group
Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Debt instruments interest expense 11.3 11.3
Deferred consideration finance charge 1.2 0.3
Void property finance charge 22 0.7 1.2
Other 0.8 0.3
Total finance expenses 14.0 13.1
7 . Acquisition related and non-recurring items from continuing operations 
Group
2015 2014
Notes
Acquisition 
related items 
£m
Non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Acquisition 
related items 
£m
Non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Loss/(income) from associates and joint 
ventures
Associate intangible amortisation 0.8 – 0.8 1.8 – 1.8
TH Real Estate establishment costs – (0.3) (0.3) – 5.4 5.4
0.8 (0.3) 0.5 1.8 5.4 7.2
Finance income
TH Real Estate gain on sale – (12.3) (12.3) – – –
Australia acquisitions – (0.1) (0.1) – – –
ICICL gain on sale – – – – (11.5) (11.5)
– (12.4) (12.4) – (11.5) (11.5)
Operating expenses and amortisation
Intangible amortisation 14 56.2 – 56.2 53.7 – 53.7
FSCS refund – – – – (2.9) (2.9)
Acquisition and integration costs 0.7 5.2 5.9 – 4.2 4.2
56.9 5.2 62.1 53.7 1.3 55.0
Finance expenses
Void property finance charge 22 0.7 – 0.7 1.2 – 1.2
Deferred consideration finance charge 1.2 – 1.2 0.3 – 0.3
1.9 – 1.9 1.5 – 1.5
Total loss/(profit) before tax from continuing 
operations 59.6 (7 .5) 52.1 57.0 (4.8) 52.2
Tax credit 8 (12.7) (3.5) (16.2) (11.2) (0.7) (11.9)
Total loss/(profit) after tax from continuing 
operations 46.9 (11.0) 35.9 45.8 (5.5) 40.3
Non-recurring items in the prior year relating to the discontinued operation are analysed in note 9.1.
Strategic report Financial statements
115 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
7 .1 Non-recurring items
2015
TH Real Estate
• Loss/(income) from associates and joint ventures
A £0.3m adjustment to the Group’s £5.4m share of one-off establishment costs recognised in 2014 was made in the current period.
• Finance income
On 1 June 2015, the Group sold its 40% stake in TH Real Estate, resulting in a £12.3m gain. Refer to note 15.2 for further detail 
regarding the transaction.
Australia acquisitions
• Finance income
A £0.1m gain has been recognised on the revaluation of the Group’s previous 41.4% stake in 90 West, based on the transaction price on 
29 May 2015 when the Group acquired the remaining 58.6% of shares. Refer to note 32 for further detail regarding the transaction.
Acquisition and integration costs 
• Operating expenses and amortisation
The Group has incurred costs of £5.2m in the period including costs related to the acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest Partners Pty Ltd 
and Perennial Growth Management Pty Ltd (together Perennial) and 90 West. Refer to note 32 for further detail regarding the transactions. 
2014
TH Real Estate
• Loss/(income) from associates and joint ventures
TH Real Estate incurred one-off establishment costs, of which £5.4m is the Group’s share (after tax where applicable), for the year ended 
31 December 2014. 
Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited (ICICL) gain on sale
• Finance income
The Group completed the sale of its 50% stake in ICICL in 2014, resulting in an £11.5m gain.
FSCS refund
• Operating expenses and amortisation
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) made a partial refund to the Group of £2.9m relating to the 2010/2011 Keydata 
cross subsidy levy in 2014. This amount was recognised as a credit in operating expenses to reflect the original treatment of the expense 
recognised in 2010 and 2012.
Acquisition and integration costs
• Operating expenses and amortisation
Deal and integration costs of £4.2m were incurred by the Group during 2014 relating to the acquisition of Geneva.
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
116 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 8. Tax
Tax recognised in the income statement
Group Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Current tax:
 – charge for the year 21.4 42.1 – –
 – prior year adjustments (4.6) (5.4) – –
Deferred tax: 
 – credit for the year (9.7) (13.4) – –
 – prior year adjustments (0.4) 1.6 – –
Total tax charged to the income statement 6.7 24.9 – –
Reconciliation of profit before tax to tax charge/(credit)
The tax charge/(credit) for the year is reconciled to the profit before tax in the income statement as follows:
Group
2015 2014
Underlying 
profit  
£m
Acquisition 
related and 
non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Total  
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax from total operations 220.0 (52.1) 167.9 283.4
Tax charge/(credit) at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 44.6 (10.6) 34.0 60.9
Factors affecting the tax charge/(credit):
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas profits (12.0) (1.1) (13.1) (11.2)
Staff compensation deductions (6.9) – (6.9) –
Prior period adjustments (2.1) (2.9) (5.0) (3.8)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (1.5) (0.1) (1.6) (2.2)
Non-taxable income and disallowable expenditure 0.2 (1.6) (1.4) (20.0)
Changes in statutory tax rates – 0.1 0.1 0.9
Other items 0.6 – 0.6 0.3
Total tax charged/(credited) to the Consolidated Income Statement 22.9 (16.2) 6.7 24.9
During 2015, the Group came to a settlement with HMRC in respect of the treatment of certain compensation expenditure paid to staff in 
prior years. This settlement allowed the Group to claim a deduction in respect of compensation expenditure incurred in prior years, giving 
rise to a tax credit of £6.9m in 2015 (see Staff compensation deductions line item in the table above).
Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit before tax 272.2 95.4
Tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 55.1 20.5
Factors affecting the tax charge:
Non-taxable income and disallowable expenditure (55.9) (21.0)
Group relief surrender 0.8 0.5
Total tax charged to the Company Income Statement – –
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the pro-rata UK corporation tax 
rate for the year is 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). 
Strategic report Financial statements
117 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
9. Discontinued operation and assets and liabilities classified as held for sale
Group
9.1 Discontinued operation 
On 1 April 2014, the Group completed transactions which resulted in the disposal of the Property business and simultaneous recognition 
of a 40% share in the newly formed joint venture – TH Real Estate. Prior to the disposal, the Group continued to consolidate the Property 
business and recognised a £6.3m underlying profit after tax from its operations in 2014. The Property business was classified as a 
discontinued operation in 2014. The results of this business for 2014 are presented below:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Net fee income – 19.3
Income from associates and joint ventures – 0.1
Finance income – 0.2
Net income – 19.6
Operating expenses – (12.0)
Underlying profit before tax from discontinued operation – 7.6
Tax charge on underlying profit – (1.3)
Underlying profit after tax from discontinued operation – 6.3
Non-recurring items – profit on disposal of Property business – 148.9
Non-recurring items – deal and separation costs – (8.7)
Tax charge on non-recurring items – (14.9)
Profit after tax from discontinued operation – 131.6
Profit on disposal of Property business
2014  
£m
Cash consideration 114.2 
40% contribution of TH Real Estate joint venture 74.8 
Amounts receivable in respect of net assets sold at net book value 9.1 
Total consideration 198.1 
Disposal of:
 – goodwill and other intangible assets allocated to Property business (33.3)
 – other net tangible assets (15.9)
Net assets disposed (49.2)
Profit on disposal before tax and deal and separation costs 148.9 
Deal and separation costs (8.7)
Profit on disposal before tax 140.2
Tax charge on profit on disposal (14.9)
Profit on disposal after tax 125.3
9.2 Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale relating to seed capital investments
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – 71.7
Available-for-sale financial assets – 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents – 8.3
Total assets classified as held for sale – 84.8
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 26.0
Total liabilities classified as held for sale – 26.0
See note 2.2 for further information on classification of assets as held for sale.
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
118 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 10.  Earnings per share
Group
The weighted average number of shares for the purpose of calculating earnings per share is as follows:
 
2015 no. 
(millions)
2014 no. 
(millions)
Issued share capital 1,139.2 1,130.9
Less: own shares held (46.1) (45.7)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 1,093.1 1,085.2
Add: potential dilutive impact of share options and awards 49.9 54.6
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 1,143.0 1,139.8
Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on the profit attributable to owners of the parent. The difference between the 
weighted average number of shares used in the basic earnings per share and the diluted earnings per share calculations reflects the 
dilutive impact of options and awards of shares to employees, which are anticipated to be exercised based on market conditions as at the 
reporting date.
10.1 On continuing underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent
Earnings
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Continuing profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 161.2 126.9
Add back: 
Acquisition related and non-recurring items after tax from continuing operations (note 7) 35.9 40.3
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 197.1 167 .2
Earnings per share
2015  
pence
2014  
pence
Basic 18.0 15.4
Diluted 17.2 14.7
10.2 On total underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent
Earnings
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Total profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 161.2 258.5
Add back/(less): 
Acquisition related and non-recurring items after tax 35.9 (85.0)
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 197.1 173.5
Earnings per share
2015  
pence
2014  
pence
Basic 18.0 16.0
Diluted 17.2 15.2
10.3 On continuing profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent
Earnings
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 161.2 126.9
Strategic report Financial statements
119 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
10.3 On continuing profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent continued
Earnings per share
2015  
pence
2014  
pence
Basic 14.7 11.7
Diluted 14.1 11.1
10.4 On total profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent
Earnings
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 161.2 258.5
Earnings per share
2015  
pence
2014  
pence
Basic 14.7 23.8
Diluted 14.1 22.7
10.5 On discontinued profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent
Earnings
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share – 131.6
Earnings per share
2015  
pence
2014  
pence
Basic – 12.1
Diluted – 11.5
11. Share-based payments
Group
11.1 Share-based compensation plans
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans, being the Restricted Share Plan, Employee Share Ownership Plan, 
Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Equity Plan, Buy As Y ou Earn Share Plan, Company Share Option Plan, Executive Shared Ownership 
Plan and Sharesave Scheme. Further details of the material plans in operation during 2015 are set out below:
Deferred Equity Plan (DEP)
Employees who receive cash-based incentive awards over a preset threshold, have an element deferred. The deferred awards are deferred 
into the Company’s shares, or into Group managed funds. The DEP trustee purchases Company shares and units or shares in Group 
managed funds and holds them in trust. Awards are deferred for up to three years and vest in three equal tranches. Those employees who 
elected to participate in the 2011 ESOP, have their restricted shares, upon vesting, automatically transfer into the 2011 ESOP as 
purchased shares. They may attract matching shares subject to the performance and employment conditions of that plan. 
The 2013 DEP has a matching share element where employees, excluding Executive Directors, are awarded one matching share for every 
three restricted shares held in trust on the third anniversary of the award. One third of the restricted shares will become unrestricted on 
each anniversary. If an employee requests to receive any of the unrestricted shares prior to the third anniversary, the related matching 
shares will be forfeited. Forfeiture conditions apply in the case of leavers.
The expense of deferred short-term incentive awards (including social security costs) is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 
over the period of deferral. As at 31 December 2015, £57 .0m (2014: £42.8m) of the expense of deferred awards relating to continuing 
operations is to be recognised in future periods.
120 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
The 2011 ESOP enabled all staff, including Executive Directors, to defer part of their cash-based incentive awards up to a specified limit 
through the purchase of Company shares. The 2011 ESOP awards up to three matching shares for every share purchased depending  
on the performance of the Henderson Group TSR and Company share price. The matching shares vest on the third, fourth and fifth 
anniversaries, if the conditions have been met on each anniversary. At the end of 2015, the TSR performance condition allows for 2.0 
matching shares on one third of the purchased shares to vest in May 2016 (2014: 0.5 matching shares; 2013: 1.5 matching shares). 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The RSP allows employees to receive shares in the Company for £nil consideration at a future point, usually after three years. The awards 
are made typically for staff recruitment and retention purposes and larger awards generally have performance hurdles. The Remuneration 
Committee approves awards to Code Staff, any awards over £500,000 and award vestings that exceed £50,000. On vesting, the 
employee must satisfy any employee tax and social security obligations.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The L TIP awards provide selected employees restricted shares or £nil cost options that have employment conditions and performance 
conditions attached as shown below. Employees who have been awarded such options have five years to exercise their options following 
the three year vesting period for 2013 LTIP and five and four years to exercise their options following the three and four year vesting 
periods (respectively) for the 2014 L TIP. Two thirds of the 2015 L TIP can be exercised from the end of year three and one third from  
the end of year four.
2013 and 2014 award criteria Amount vesting
Henderson Group TSR less than the 50th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies nil%
Henderson Group TSR at the 50th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies 25%
Henderson Group TSR at or above the 75th percentile of the FTSE 350 General Financial Services companies 100%
If the Henderson Group TSR is between the 50th and 75th percentiles, the amount vesting will increase on a linear basis. The Remuneration 
Committee must also be satisfied that the Henderson Group TSR reflects the underlying performance of the Group. For the 2012, 2013 
and 2014 L TIP, the performance hurdle is 95% relative to Henderson Group TSR and 5% on risk and sustainability metrics. 
Employees may be entitled to dividend equivalents for the 2013 and 2014 L TIP, subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee,  
once the L TIP is vested based on the dividends declared during the three year vesting period in respect of the shares that vest. The 
dividend equivalents are payable in two equal tranches, one and two year(s) after vesting. However, employees are not entitled to vote  
or receive dividends in respect of these awards until the vesting conditions are met, nor are they allowed to pledge, hedge or assign  
the expected awards in any way.
The 2015 L TIP award vesting and release of the award are subject to performance against the following performance conditions measured 
(as appropriate) over, or at the end of, the relevant three or four year performance period (in respect of the first and second tranche of the 
award respectively):
2015 award criteria Weighting
Market conditions
 – FTSE 350 25%
 – ASX 100 25%
Non-market
 – Net Fund Flows Condition 15%
 – Investment Performance Condition 15%
 – Operating Margin Condition 10%
 – People Strategy Condition 10%
In respect of the first tranche of the award, an additional holding period of two years shall apply commencing on the relevant vesting date, 
during which time the participant may not sell, pledge, charge, assign, dispose of or otherwise transfer ownership of the underlying shares 
pertaining to the award, other than to meet mandatory liabilities to tax and/or social security contributions. In respect of the second tranche 
of the award, an additional holding period of one year shall apply commencing on the relevant vesting date with similar conditions. 
The 2012 L TIP met its vesting conditions on 31 December 2014 and 43% of awards vested in April 2015. The 2013 L TIP met its vesting 
conditions on 31 December 2015 and 98% of awards will vest in April 2016.
Strategic report Financial statements
121 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
11.2 Share-based payments charged to the Consolidated Income Statement from continuing operations
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
DEP 12.6 12.5
LTIP 5.7 3.8
RSP 5.4 5.4
BAYE 1.9 0.8
ExSOP 1.3 0.9
CSOP 1.1 0.9
SAYE 0.5 0.4
ESOP 0.4 2.7
Share-based payments expense 28.9 27.4
The total amount settled through the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity is analysed between:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Share-based payments charged to the Consolidated Income Statement from continuing operations 28.9 27.4
Share-based payments charged to the Consolidated Income Statement from discontinued operation – 1.4
Other equity-settled bonuses and other movements 10.3 6.5
Amounts settled through equity 39.2 35.3
All amounts above exclude related employment taxes which are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
11.3 Fair value of share-based compensation plans
The following share schemes involve the grant of shares and options for £nil consideration. The fair value of these grants is calculated 
using the share price at grant date, which is set out in the following table. L TIP fair values have been discounted on the basis that the 
option holder has no entitlement to dividends over the vesting period of the option. Dividend equivalents, should they be awarded,  
will be treated as separate, cash-settled awards. No adjustments have been made for dividends relating to the DEP and BAYE.
2015 2014
Shares/
options 
granted  
no.
 Average grant 
share price 
£
Shares/ 
options  
granted  
no.
Average grant 
share price 
£
LTIP 6,192,531 2.73 5,842,500 2.40
DEP 4,982,915 2.86 4,334,868 2.60
RSP 1,262,989 2.60 2,496,305 2.42
The fair value calculation for the L TIP includes a statistical assessment of the likelihood of the Company achieving performance targets  
as set out in the plan.
12. Dividends paid and proposed
Company
2015  
£m
2015  
pence per 
share
2014  
£m
2014  
pence per 
share
Dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid in the year
Final dividend in respect of 2014 (2013) 70.9 6.40 64.0 5.85
Interim dividend in respect of 2015 (2014) 34.5 3.10 28.9 2.60
Total dividends paid and charged to equity 105.4 9.50 92.9 8.45
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
122 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 2015  
£m
2015  
pence per 
share
2014  
£m
2014  
pence per 
share
Dividends proposed on ordinary shares for approval  
by the shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for 2015 (2014) 81.5 7 .20 72.9 6.40
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2015 of 7 .20 pence per share which, when added to the interim 2015 dividend  
of 3.10 pence per share, results in a total dividend for 2015 of 10.30 pence per share. The final dividend proposed in respect of 2015  
of £81.5m is based on the total number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2015. There was a £2.9m decrease between the 
proposed dividends (2014 final: £72.9m and 2015 interim: £35.4m), as reported in the 2014 Annual Report and the Interim Report for  
the six months ended 30 June 2015, versus the dividends paid out during the year (2014 final: £70.9m and 2015 interim: £34.5m).  
This represents dividends waived by employee benefit trust trustees on shares held in trust on behalf of Group employees. The amount 
waived in respect of the final dividend declared in respect of 2015 will be established by the employee benefit trust trustees on 6 May 
2016, being the dividend record date.
13. Segmental information
Group
Henderson is a global investment manager. The Group manages a broad range of actively managed investment products for institutional 
and retail investors, across five capabilities, being European Equities, Global Equities, Global Fixed Income, Multi-Asset and Alternatives, 
including Private Equity and Property. Management operates across product lines, distribution channels and geographic regions.  
All investment product types are sold in most, if not all, of these regions and are managed in various locations.
Information is reported to the chief operating decision-maker, the Board, on an aggregated basis. Strategic and financial management 
decisions are determined centrally by the Board and, on this basis, the Group is a single segment investment management business. 
Entity-wide disclosures
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Revenues by product on continuing operations
UK OEICs/unit trusts 262.5 254.9
SICAVs 257 .0 178.7
US mutuals 82.8 57.1
Institutional segregated mandates and cash funds 62.8 51.8
Offshore absolute return funds 50.0 63.3
Other 40.9 45.4
Gross fee and deferred income 756.0 651.2
The Group does not have a single client which accounts for more than 10% of revenues.
Geographic information
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Revenues from clients on continuing operations
UK 457.9 447.2
Luxembourg 179.0 132.3
Americas 112.6 66.5
Australia 3.7 1.1
Singapore 1.4 1.9
Japan 1.2 0.8
Other 0.2 1.4
Gross fee and deferred income 756.0 651.2
The geographical revenue information is split according to the country in which the revenue is generated, not necessarily where the client 
is based. 
Strategic report Financial statements
123 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
13. Segmental information continued
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Non-current assets
UK 558.1 670.4
Americas 85.2 88.3
Australia 53.9 8.0
Other 0.7 0.7
697.9 767 .4
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible assets, investments accounted for using the equity method and property  
and equipment.
14. Intangible assets
Group
Intangible assets are analysed as follows:
2015
Goodwill  
£m
Investment 
management 
contracts  
£m
Computer 
software  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 523.7 361.5 14.9 900.1
Additions 29.5 18.7 6.0 54.2
Impact of foreign exchange movement 3.5 3.8 – 7.3
At 31 December 556.7 384.0 20.9 961.6
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January – (218.5) (3.7) (222.2)
Charge – (56.2) (2.6) (58.8)
At 31 December – (274.7) (6.3) (281.0)
Carrying value at 31 December 556.7 109.3 14.6 680.6
2014
Goodwill  
£m
Investment 
management 
contracts  
£m
Computer 
software  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 482.8 310.7 10.8 804.3
Additions 34.2 48.9 4.1 87.2
Adjustment to assets classified as held for sale 5.4 – – 5.4
Impact of foreign exchange movement 1.3 1.9 – 3.2
At 31 December 523.7 361.5 14.9 900.1
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January – (164.8) (1.6) (166.4)
Charge – (53.7) (2.1) (55.8)
At 31 December – (218.5) (3.7) (222.2)
Carrying value at 31 December 523.7 143.0 11.2 677 .9
The Group considers itself to have one cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated. 
The recoverable value of goodwill for the Group at 31 December 2015 has been determined by a value in use calculation, using cash 
flows based on the Group’s annual budget and five year forecasts approved by the Board and a terminal value for the period thereafter. 
The key assumptions applied to the Group’s annual budget and five year forecast are market performance and net fund flows. 
Management determined these key assumptions by assessing current market conditions and through the utilisation of forward looking 
external evidence. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
124 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 The terminal value has been calculated assuming a long-term growth rate of 2% per annum in perpetuity, based on the Group’s view  
of long-term nominal growth, which does not exceed market expectations.
A pre-tax risk-adjusted discount rate of 12.7% per annum has been applied. The resultant value in use calculation has been compared 
with the carrying value of the Group’s goodwill to determine if any goodwill impairment arises. The calculation shows significant headroom 
in the recoverable value of goodwill. Sensitivities were performed by adjusting key assumptions for reasonable possible changes, with  
the model continuing to show significant headroom. 
Recent market transactions and the Group’s current market capitalisation provide additional evidence that the recoverable value  
of goodwill is in excess of the carrying value.
15. Interests in other entities
The Group operates as a global investment manager and reports its results to the Board on an aggregated basis. The Group manages  
its operations via investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and interests in structured entities. 
The Group’s interests in structured entities are through employee benefit trusts and seed capital investments in funds. Employee benefit 
trusts are consolidated and are for the purpose of administering the Group’s share-based payment arrangements. Further details of the 
Group’s share-based payment arrangements are set out in note 11. The Group holds interests in funds via seed capital investments and 
investment management agreements, for which it earns management fees and, in certain funds, performance fees. Segregated mandates 
and investment trusts do not give the Group any rights over the client or trust who have the right to remove the Group as manager, being  
a right similar to a voting right. As such, segregated mandates and investment trusts are not structured entities. Management has 
determined that the Group acts as agent for unconsolidated funds due to its relatively low economic exposure and variability of returns. 
The Group is exposed to structured entities via the risk that their AUM decreases which will cause a fall in the Group’s income. 
Considering the potential for changes in the AUM of structured entities, management has determined that the Group’s structured entities 
should be aggregated by the type of vehicle. As all of the Group’s unconsolidated funds that meet the definition of a structured entity are  
in pooled investment funds, disclosures have been made on this basis. Refer to note 15.3.
15.1 Subsidiaries
Company
Investment in subsidiaries
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 31 December 1,029.8 1,030.8
The wholly owned and directly held subsidiary of the Company is as follows:
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of operation Functional currency
Henderson Group Holdings Asset Management Limited UK GBP
Group
Refer to note 34 for the subsidiaries of the Group, excluding the directly held subsidiary of the Company shown above.
15.2 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Group 
The Group holds interests in the following associates and joint ventures managed through shareholder agreements with third party 
investors, accounted for under the equity method: 
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of operation
Functional 
currency
2015  
Percentage 
owned
2014  
Percentage 
owned
Northern Pines Henderson Capital GP LLC USA USD 50% 50%
Northern Pines Henderson Capital LLC USA USD 50% 50%
Optimum Investment Management Limited UK GBP 50% 50%
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited UK GBP – 40%
90 West Asset Management Limited Australia AUD – 41%
Strategic report Financial statements
125 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
15.2 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued
On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 58.6% of the share capital of 90 West. As a result, this investment has been 
transferred from an investment in associate to an investment in subsidiary. See note 32 for further details. 
The Group’s share of income/(loss) after tax from associates and joint ventures is as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
TH Real Estate share of underlying profit 0.1 2.7
TH Real Estate share of acquisition related and non-recurring items (0.5) (7 .2)
TH Real Estate share of loss (0.4) (4.5)
Share of (loss)/income from other associates and joint ventures (0.3) 2.4
Total share of loss (0.7) (2.1)
A summary of the total net assets and total profit and loss of TH Real Estate is provided below: 
As at 31 
December 
2015  
£m
As at 31 
December 
2014  
£m
Non-current assets – 173.7
Current assets – 50.9
Current liabilities – (51.2)
Non-current liabilities – (3.4)
Net assets – 170.0
No assets or liabilities are shown as at 31 December 2015 as the Group sold its stake in TH Real Estate on 1 June 2015. Included in  
TH Real Estate’s current assets as at 31 December 2014 was £21.7m of cash and cash equivalents. 
Disposal of TH Real Estate 
On 1 June 2015, the Group sold its 40% stake in TH Real Estate, with a carrying value of £72.9m, for consideration of £84.3m. At 31 
December 2014, the Group was due £15.5m from TH Real Estate relating to trading and other assets. This was fully repaid in 2015 prior 
to or as a part of the 1 June 2015 transaction.
For the 5 months ended 31 May 2015 For the 9 months ended 31 December 2014
Underlying 
profit  
£m
Acquisition 
related and 
non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Underlying 
profit  
£m
Acquisition 
related and 
non-recurring 
items  
£m
Total  
£m
Income 28.0 – 28.0 49.4 – 49.4
Operating expenses (25.2) – (25.2) (39.4) (2.8) (42.2)
Amortisation and depreciation (0.7) (2.6) (3.3) (1.2) (5.6) (6.8)
Profit/(loss) before tax 2.1 (2.6) (0.5) 8.8 (8.4) 0.4
Tax (charge)/credit (0.5) 0.5 – (2.1) 1.6 (0.5)
Profit/(loss) after tax 1.6 (2.1) (0.5) 6.7 (6.8) (0.1)
In addition to the £0.1m loss above for the nine months ended 31 December 2014, TH Real Estate also incurred establishment costs of 
£11.3m (Group’s share after tax of £4.5m recognised in non-recurring items). During 2015, a £0.3m reduction was made to the Group’s 
share of establishment costs within non-recurring items. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
126 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 15.3 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities
Group
A reconciliation of AUM reported by the Group to AUM in funds that meet the definition of an unconsolidated structured entity  
is shown below:
£bn T otal AUM
Less: 
segregated 
mandates and 
investment 
trusts
Less: 
consolidated 
pooled 
investment 
funds
Pooled 
investment 
funds AUM
31 December 2015 92.0 (25.5) (0.2) 66.3
31 December 2014 81.2 (26.6) (0.1) 54.5
During the year, the Group recognised gross fee and deferred income of £657 .6m (2014: £575.4m) from unconsolidated structured 
entities in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group has the following exposure to unconsolidated structured entities, which equates to the Group’s maximum exposure to loss:
£m
Trade  
debtors
Accrued 
income
Seed capital 
investments Total
31 December 2015 5.5 92.9 4.3 102.7
31 December 2014 7.6 127 .5 3.5 138.6
16. Property and equipment
Group
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 25.0 32.1
Additions 1.9 1.6
Disposals – (8.8)
Impact of foreign exchange movement – 0.1
At 31 December 26.9 25.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January (9.9) (15.1)
Charge (2.6) (2.6)
Disposals – 7.8
At 31 December (12.5) (9.9)
Net book value at 31 December 14.4 15.1
Strategic report Financial statements
127 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
17 . Fair value of financial instruments
Group
Total financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the financial assets and liabilities of the Group:
Carrying value Fair value
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 145.7 35.9 145.7 35.9
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss classified as held 
for sale 9.2 – 71.7 – 71.7
Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 145.7 107.6 145.7 107.6
Available-for-sale financial assets 64.6 71.0 64.6 71.0
Available-for-sale financial assets classified as held for sale 9.2 – 4.8 – 4.8
Total available-for-sale financial assets 64.6 75.8 64.6 75.8
Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust debtors, trade debtors and 
other debtors 221.4 267 .6 221.4 267 .6
Cash and cash equivalents 19.1 381.6 234.5 381.6 234.5
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale 9.2 – 8.3 – 8.3
Total loans and receivables 603.0 510.4 603.0 510.4
Total financial assets 813.3 693.8 813.3 693.8
Debt instrument in issue 20 149.9 149.4 151.4 157 .4
Trade and other payables (excluding deferred income) 301.0 300.9 301.0 300.9
Total loans and payables carried at amortised cost 450.9 450.3 452.4 458.3
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 119.3 57.2 119.3 57.2
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss classified as held 
for sale 9.2 – 26.0 – 26.0
Provisions 22 11.9 12.8 11.9 12.8
Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 131.2 96.0 131.2 96.0
Total financial liabilities 582.1 546.3 583.6 554.3
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mainly consist of seed capital investments, investments and derivatives held in 
consolidated funds and investments in the Group’s fund products which are held, in employee benefit trusts, against outstanding deferred 
compensation arrangements. Any movement in the fair value of the assets held against deferred compensation liabilities is offset by  
a corresponding movement in deferred compensation liabilities. Both movements are recognised through the Consolidated Income 
Statement. Available-for-sale financial assets consist of seed capital investments and investments in consolidated funds.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge seed capital investments denominated in foreign currency. Forward 
foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the translation of certain consolidated structured entities. In addition, the Group 
entered into a number of contracts for difference (CFDs), credit default indices (CDXs), futures and total return swaps (TRSs) to hedge 
the market movements of specific available-for-sale and fair value through profit or loss financial assets. Current loans and receivables and 
trade and other payables carried at amortised cost, included in the table above, represent balances mainly settling in a short timeframe, 
and accordingly, the fair value of these assets and liabilities is considered to be materially equal to their carrying value after taking into 
account any impairment.
Company
As at 31 December 2015, the Company held financial assets at fair value through profit or loss with a carrying and fair value of £41.7m 
(2014: £34.6m). These investments are classified as Level 1 and Level 2 using the hierarchy set out on the following page. As at 31 
December 2015, the Company held financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss with a carrying and fair value of £28.2m (2014: 
£26.1m), which were classified as Level 3 using the hierarchy set out on the following page. During 2015, there were no transfers in  
to or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 (2014: £nil).
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
128 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Group 
Fair value hierarchy
The following asset and liability types are carried at fair value after initial recognition.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial assets and liabilities  
by valuation technique:
• Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2: other techniques where all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value, are observable, either directly  
or indirectly; and
• Level 3: techniques where inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market 
data. These are predominantly investments in property and private equity funds and valuations are derived by the relevant fund manager 
teams based on a variety of valuation techniques.
At 31 December 2015
Total  
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 145.7 79.0 66.2 0.5
Available-for-sale financial assets 64.6 10.1 15.5 39.0
Total financial assets measured at fair value 210.3 89.1 81.7 39.5
At 31 December 2014
Total  
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 107.6 98.7 8.9 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 75.8 28.0 – 47.8
Total financial assets measured at fair value 183.4 126.7 8.9 47.8
At 31 December 2015
Total  
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 119.3 8.8 5.4 105.1
Provisions 11.9 – – 11.9
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 131.2 8.8 5.4 117.0
At 31 December 2014
Total  
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 83.2 – – 83.2
Provisions 12.8 – – 12.8
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 96.0 – – 96.0
Level 2 financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivative instruments related to seed capital investments and  
investments made by consolidated funds. Level 3 financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss represent non-controlling  
interests in consolidated funds, the deferred compensation liabilities which are held against the investments in the Group’s fund products, 
contingent deferred consideration and provisions. With respect to non-controlling interests in consolidated funds, the fair value movements 
are primarily driven by fair value changes in investments held in these funds. Details of the inputs used to calculate the fair value of 
contingent deferred consideration and provisions can be found in notes 2.2 and 22 respectively. Sensitivity analysis around likely possible 
changes to the inputs into the valuations of these liabilities has been performed and resulted in no significant difference to the fair values 
recognised that, if adjusted for, would impact the profit attributable to owners of the parent. Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 
and classified as Level 3 have increased by £21.0m in the year to £117 .0m as at 31 December 2015. This movement is primarily due  
to £21.5m additional investment in consolidated funds. The remaining difference reflects the movement in provisions and other items 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Strategic report Financial statements
129 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
17 . Fair value of financial instruments continued
During 2015, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 (2014: £nil). 
The following is a reconciliation of the movements in the Group’s financial assets classified as Level 3 during the year:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Fair value at 1 January 47.8 61.4
Additions 0.5 1.9
Disposals (23.9) (22.8)
Movements recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 9.9 –
Transferred from Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income to Consolidated Income Statement (9.6) (0.6)
Fair value movements recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 14.8 7.9
Fair value at 31 December 39.5 47.8
Level 3 investments at 31 December 2015 mainly comprise private equity investments. Private equity investments are valued using  
a combination of the enterprise value/EBITDA multiple method and the discounted cash flow method. Significant unobservable inputs 
include long-term revenue growth rates and pre-tax operating margin, taking into account management’s experience and knowledge  
of market conditions of the specific industries. The Group disposed of its Level 3 property investments during 2015. As the fair value 
measurement of the financial assets included in Level 3 is based on unobservable inputs, a change in one or more underlying assumptions 
could result in a significant change in fair value. However, due to the numerous different factors affecting the assets, the impact cannot  
be quantified. 
The fair value of the Level 3 financial assets are based on 30 September 2015 valuations. The events between valuation date and 
reporting date have been considered with respect to the 30 September 2015 valuations and no adjustments were considered necessary.
18. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Accrued income 120.6 147 .1 – –
OEIC and unit trust debtors 77 .7 87.1 – –
Trade debtors 10.4 10.0 – –
Other debtors 12.7 23.4 0.1 0.3
Prepayments 7.4 7.6 – –
Deferred acquisition costs 4.0 2.0 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 8.7 2.3
232.8 277.2 8.8 2.6
Non-current 0.1 1.3 – –
Current 232.7 275.9 8.8 2.6
232.8 277.2 8.8 2.6
19. Cash and cash equivalents
19.1 Cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents
Group Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 308.5 197 .6 7.2 7.3
Cash equivalents 73.1 36.9 – –
Cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents 381.6 234.5 7.2 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank, cash in hand and short-term highly liquid government securities or investments in 
money market instruments with a maturity date of three months or less.
Included within cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2015 are £1.7m (2014: £2.1m) of cash at bank and in hand that was held 
in the Group’s manager dealing accounts which represent payments due to and from OEICs and units trusts as a result of client trading, 
£0.1m (2014: £0.2m) rental guarantee deposits and £27 .2m (2014: £4.5m) of cash held by consolidated structured entities.  
After deducting these restricted cash balances, total unrestricted cash is £352.6m (2014: £227 .7m). 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
130 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 19.2 Net cash flows generated from operating activities
Group
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Net cash flows generated from operating activities
Profit before tax from total operations 167.9 283.4
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax from total operations to net cash flows generated from 
operating activities:
 – debt instruments interest expense 11.3 11.6
 – share-based payment charges 28.9 28.8
 – intangible amortisation 59.6 57.6
 – share of (income)/loss from associates and joint ventures (0.1) 0.3
 – property and equipment depreciation 16 2.6 2.6
 – gain on disposal of seed capital investments (11.0) (3.7)
 – loss on disposal of property and equipment – 0.8
 – contributions to Group pension schemes in excess of costs recognised (5.0) (5.5)
 – net movements on other provisions 0.4 0.1
 – other finance charges 2.7 1.5
 – other finance income (0.2) –
 – seed capital investment impairment 1.0 0.6
 – gain on sale of associates 7 (12.4) (11.5)
 – profit on disposal of Property business before tax and deal and separation costs 9.1 – (148.9)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities before changes in operating assets and 
liabilities 245.7 217.7
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 19.3 33.5 (74.7)
Net tax paid (9.4) (20.0)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 269.8 123.0
Included within net cash flows generated from operating activities are cash outflows relating to non-recurring items of £2.5m  
(2014: £11.3m).
19.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Group Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Changes in OEIC and unit trust debtors and creditors (0.1) (9.7) – –
Decrease/(increase) in other assets 29.6 (31.5) (13.3) (18.5)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and other liabilities 4.0 (33.5) (75.9) 40.2
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 33.5 (74.7) (89.2) 21.7
20. Debt instrument in issue
Group
2015  
Carrying value  
£m
2015  
Fair value  
£m
2014  
Carrying value 
£m
2014  
Fair value  
£m
Senior, unrated fixed rate notes due 24 March 2016 (2016 Notes) 149.9 151.4 149.4 157 .4
On 24 March 2011, the Group issued, at par, £150.0m of 2016 Notes which are listed on the LSE, unsecured, unrated, repayable in full 
on 24 March 2016 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 7 .25% per annum payable six monthly. The fair value of the 2016 Notes has been 
obtained applying a Level 1 valuation technique. 
Strategic report Financial statements
131 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
21. Retirement benefits
Group 
21.1 Characteristics and risks associated with the retirement benefit plans
The main defined benefit pension plan sponsored by the Group is the defined benefit section of Henderson Group Pension Scheme 
(HGPS), which closed to new members on 15 November 1999. The sponsor and principal employer of the HGPS is HGI Group Limited 
and the participating company is Henderson Administration Limited. The appointed investment manager for the final salary scheme is 
Henderson Global Investors Limited. The HGPS is funded by contributions to a separately administered fund. The actuarial advisers  
to the HGPS are Towers Watson. 
Benefits in the HGPS are based on service and final salary. The plan is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is operated separately 
from the Group and managed by an independent Trustee board. The Trustee is responsible for payment of the benefits and management 
of the HGPS assets.
The HGPS is subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustee to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule  
for the scheme.
The triennial valuation of the HGPS as at 31 December 2011, carried out by the Trustee’s independent actuarial advisers, revealed  
a surplus of £10.0m on a technical provisions basis. The triennial valuation as at 31 December 2014 is currently being carried out.  
To the extent that future valuations reveal a funding deficit, additional contributions may be required from the Group.
The Group also has a contractual obligation to provide certain members of the HGPS with additional defined benefits on an unfunded basis.
The valuation of the HGPS under IAS 19 Employee Benefits is based on full membership data as at 31 December 2011 and updated  
to the accounting date by an independent actuary in accordance with IAS 19. The HGPS assets are stated at their fair values  
as at 31 December 2015. 
The Group expects to contribute approximately £7 .5m to the HGPS in the year ending 31 December 2016 (defined benefit and money 
purchase sections) based on the triennial valuation as at 31 December 2011. Benefits paid via the unfunded arrangements are paid 
directly by the Group and are expected to be £0.1m in 2016. 
As with the vast majority of similar arrangements in the United Kingdom, the Group ultimately underwrites the risks relating to these 
defined benefit plans. These risks include investment risks and demographic risks, such as the risk of members living longer than expected. 
21.2  Amounts recognised in the financial statements
Retirement benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Retirement benefit assets recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Henderson Group Pension Scheme 130.0 128.1
Retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Henderson Group unapproved pension scheme (8.1) (8.5)
Net retirement benefit asset recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 121.9 119.6
Pension service cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
2015  
£m
 2014  
£m
Charges/(credits) relating to defined benefit and unapproved schemes
Administration costs 0.9 0.8
Current service cost 1.0 1.1
Net interest credit (4.8) (4.5)
(2.9) (2.6)
Contributions to money purchase members’ accounts 5.3 5.1
Net charge to the Consolidated Income Statement 2.4 2.5
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
132 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1.2) 29.4
Tax at source (1.7) (11.8)
Net (loss)/gain recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (2.9) 17.6
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligations
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 1 January 479.4 414.9
Current service cost 1.0 1.1
Interest cost 16.9 18.4
Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from:
 – experience (3.8) (3.8)
 – changes in financial assumptions (15.6) 62.7
Benefit payments (20.4) (13.9)
At 31 December 457.5 479.4
Reconciliation of fair value of defined benefit scheme assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 1 January 613.0 513.6
Interest credit 21.7 22.9
Administration costs (0.9) (0.8)
Actuarial (losses)/gains arising from scheme assets (20.6) 88.3
Contributions 2.1 2.8
Benefit payments (20.2) (13.8)
At 31 December 595.1 613.0
Net retirement benefit asset recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (457 .5) (479.4)
Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 595.1 613.0
Tax at source (15.7) (14.0)
At 31 December 121.9 119.6
Pension scheme assets
The major categories of assets in the HGPS are as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Growth portfolio
 – infrastructure – 5.5
 – diversified growth 129.9 125.7
Bond assets 435.5 452.0
Buy and maintain credit fund 28.4 28.4
Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.4
At 31 December 595.1 613.0
The assets of the HGPS are allocated to a growth portfolio and bond assets. The majority of the growth portfolio is invested in pooled 
diversified funds, with the objective of achieving a level of growth greater than the bond portfolio. The bond portfolio is managed on a 
segregated basis, with the primary objective of meeting the cash flows as they mature.
The current strategic allocation is broadly 25% growth assets and 75% bond assets. For strategic purposes, the buy and maintain  
credit fund is split evenly between a growth portfolio and bond assets. The Trustee intends to increase the allocation to bond assets  
as the funding level of the HGPS (calculated on a ‘self-sufficiency’ basis) improves. All of the HGPS assets are quoted in active markets.
Strategic report Financial statements
133 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
21.3 Actuarial assumptions
Financial assumptions
For the purpose of the following disclosures, the retirement benefit arrangements have been combined on the grounds of materiality: 
2015  
% per annum
2014  
% per annum
Discount rate 3.8 3.6
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.5 2.5
Inflation (RPI) 3.0 3.1
Inflation (CPI) 2.0 2.1
Post-retirement mortality (expectancy of life): years years
Male currently aged 60 28.5 28.3
Female currently aged 60 30.0 29.3
Male aged 60 in 15 years 30.0 29.7
Female aged 60 in 15 years 31.5 31.3
Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
The approximate impact of changing these main assumptions on the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2015 is as follows:
• reducing the discount rate by 0.1% per annum would increase the IA S 19 defined benefit obligation by £9.0m (2014: £9.0m); 
• increasing RPI inflation by 0.1% per annum would increase the IAS 19 defined benefit obligation by £3.0m (2014: £3.0m); and
• increasing the life expectancy of members by one year would increase the IA S 19 defined benefit obligation by £14.0m  
(2014: £14.0m).
There would also be an impact on the current service cost, but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be 
immaterial.
The above sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual change, as in practice the changes in assumptions may not occur in 
isolation. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations is approximately 19 years (2014: 20 years).
22. Provisions 
Group 
Void properties 
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2015 11.6 1.2 12.8
Additions – 0.4 0.4
Finance charge 0.7 – 0.7
Utilised (2.0) – (2.0)
At 31 December 2015 10.3 1.6 11.9
Non-current 8.8 1.2 10.0
Current 1.5 0.4 1.9
At 31 December 2015 10.3 1.6 11.9
Void properties
The void properties provision reflects the net present value of the excess of lease rentals and other payments on New Star and Gartmore 
properties with onerous contracts, over the amounts expected to be recovered from subletting these properties. The discounting of 
expected cash flows will be unwound during the term of the underlying leases (maximum of 10 years) as a void property finance charge to 
the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Other
Other provisions relate to issues which have arisen as a result of litigation and obligations during the course of the Group’s  
business activities. 
All provisions reflect the Group’s current estimates of amounts and timings. 
134 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 23. Deferred tax
Group
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised by the Group and movements therein are as follows:
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances  
£m
Retirement 
benefits  
£m
Intangible 
assets  
£m
Compensation 
plans  
£m
Other 
temporary 
differences  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2014 1.8 (18.3) (29.3) 26.7 9.0 (10.1)
Reclassification – – – 1.5 (1.5) –
Acquisitions through business combinations – – 0.1 – – 0.1
(Charge)/credit to the Consolidated Income Statement (0.8) (0.2) 10.6 7.3 (5.1) 11.8
Credit to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – 0.1 – – 0.1 0.2
Charge to the Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity – – – (4.8) – (4.8)
Impact of foreign exchange movement – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 1.0 (18.4) (18.6) 30.7 2.4 (2.9)
Acquisitions through business combinations – – (4.8) – – (4.8)
(Charge)/credit to the Consolidated Income Statement (0.4) 1.8 10.6 (2.6) 0.7 10.1
Charge to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Credit to the Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity – – – 3.7 – 3.7
Impact of foreign exchange movement – – (0.4) – 0.3 (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.6 (16.7) (13.2) 31.8 3.4 5.9
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in the above summary represent gross assets and liabilities as follows:
Assets  
£m
Liabilities  
£m
Total  
£m
At 31 December 2014 36.0 (38.9) (2.9)
At 31 December 2015 37.5 (31.6) 5.9
The future reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and then to 18% with effect from  
1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in 2015. These tax rate changes have resulted in a reduction of the Group’s deferred tax assets 
and deferred tax liabilities of £3.0m and £1.9m respectively.
At the reporting date, the Group has unused capital losses in respect of which no deferred tax has been recognised as utilisation of  
the capital losses is dependent on future taxable capital gains. The unrecognised deferred tax asset in respect of capital losses carried 
forward is £14.1m (2014: £10.9m), of which £0.7m (2014: £0.5m) will expire in three years (2014: four years) if unused. The remaining 
capital losses have no expiry date.
At the reporting date, the Group has, in respect of losses and other temporary differences, a deferred tax asset which has not been 
recognised of £1.4m (2014: £6.9m). The asset has not been recognised as the timing of its realisation remains uncertain or its use  
is dependent on the existence of future taxable profits against which the tax losses and other temporary differences can be utilised.  
The tax losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with the Group’s investments in overseas 
subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences  
and where the reversal of the temporary differences is not anticipated in the foreseeable future (2014: £nil). 
Strategic report Financial statements
135 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
24. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
OEIC and unit trust creditors 77 .7 87.2 – –
Other creditors 11.6 11.5 0.9 3.0
Accruals 211.7 202.2 0.2 0.2
Deferred income 1.0 2.5 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 20.1 125.9
302.0 303.4 21.2 129.1
Non-current 10.7 13.2 – –
Current 291.3 290.2 21.2 129.1
302.0 303.4 21.2 129.1
25. Share capital
Group and Company
25.1 Authorised share capital
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2,194,910,776 (2014: 2,194,910,776) ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each 274.4 274.4
25.2 Allotted share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity shares:
Shares in issue no. £m
At 1 January 2014 1,123,422,286 140.4
Issue of shares for share schemes 15,744,909 2.0
At 31 December 2014 1,139,167 ,195 142.4
Issue of shares for share schemes 1,687 ,715 0.2
Cancellation of shares (9,012,801) (1.1)
At 31 December 2015 1,131,842,109 141.5
During the year, the Company purchased and cancelled 9.0m shares at a cost of £25.0m through a share buyback programme. 
All ordinary shares in issue carry the same rights to receive dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company. 
The Directors consider equity attributable to owners of the parent to represent Group capital. The Directors manage the Group’s capital 
structure on an ongoing basis. Changes to the Group’s capital structure can be affected by adjusting the dividend policy, returning capital 
to shareholders or issuing new shares and other forms of capital.
26. Reserves
Group and Company
The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Company Statement of Changes in Equity provide details of movements in equity 
for the Group and Company respectively.
Nature and purpose of reserves
Share premium
Share premium records the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the full value of the consideration received or the 
market price on the day of issue. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
136 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Own shares held
Total own shares held had a cost of £106.9m (2014: £94.7m) and a market value of £143.3m (2014: £103.8m) as at 31 December 2015 
and constituted 4.1% (2014: 4.3%) of the Company’s issued share capital as at that date. 
2015  
no. of shares
2014  
no. of shares
Henderson Employee Trust 2000 2,115,862 316,941
HHG plc Employee Trust 2004 10,000 60,000
Henderson Employee Trust 2009 27 ,826,741 28,656,728
Henderson Group plc Employee Trust 2009 12,180,438 15,603,766
ACS HR Solutions UK Limited 1,119,140 931,116
Henderson Employee Share Ownership Trust 3,035,913 2,933,747
 46,288,094 48,502,298
The above trusts are used by the Group to operate the share-based compensation schemes as set out in note 11. 
Shares are distributed to employees as and when they vest or the holding period ends, in line with the terms of each scheme, under  
the administration of the trustees. ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services (Guernsey) Limited, a Xerox Company, administers all of the 
above trusts. 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises differences on exchange arising from the translation of subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not 
GBP to period end rates. 
The translation reserve also includes unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets which are not part 
of a designated hedge relationship. Upon disposal or impairment of these assets, amounts previously recognised in the translation reserve 
are recycled out and the cumulative amount of the gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve comprises the amount of any unrealised gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income in relation to available-for-sale financial assets which are not part of a designated hedge relationship.
Upon disposal or impairment of these assets, amounts previously recognised in the revaluation reserve are recycled out and the cumulative 
amount of the gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Profit and loss reserve
The profit and loss reserve comprises:
• results recognised through the Consolidated and Company Income Statement;
• actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, net of tax;
• dividends paid to equity shareholders;
• transactions relating to share-based payments; and
• amounts paid in excess of the nominal value of the Company’s shares under the share buyback programme.
27 .  Financial risk management
Financial risk management objectives and policies
Financial assets principally comprise investments in equity securities, fixed income investments, short-term investments, trade and other 
receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Financial liabilities comprise borrowings for financing purposes, trade and other payables, 
non-controlling interests in consolidated funds, deferred consideration on business combinations and provisions. The main risks arising 
from financial instruments are price, interest rate, liquidity, foreign currency and credit. Each of these risks is examined in detail below.  
The Group monitors financial risks on a consolidated basis and intra-group balances are settled when it is deemed appropriate for  
both parties to the transaction. The Company is not exposed to material financial risk and separate disclosures for the Company  
have not been included.
The Group has designed a framework to manage the risks of its business and to ensure that the Directors have in place risk management 
practices appropriate for a listed company. The management of risk within the Group is governed by the Board and overseen by the Board 
Risk Committee.
Strategic report Financial statements
137 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
27 .1 Price risk
Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts on the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to price risk in respect of its direct investment in seed capital investments in Group funds (being available-for-sale 
financial assets, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and held for sale assets) and consolidated structured entities. Seed 
capital investments vary in duration, depending on the nature of the investment, with a typical range of one year to three years for equity, 
fixed income and multi-asset products and approximately seven years for private equity and property products. The total market value  
of the Group’s direct investment in seed capital investments at 31 December 2015, was £117 .3m (2014: £116.4m including those 
designated as held for sale). 
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis. Significant movements in investment values are monitored on a daily 
basis. Where appropriate, management will hedge price risk. At 31 December 2015, investments with a market value of £96.7m  
(2014: £80.0m) were hedged against price risk through the use of CFDs, CDXs, futures and TRSs.
Price risk sensitivity analysis on seed capital investments
2015 2014
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  
£m
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  
£m
Market value movement +/- 10% – 4.3 – 3.6
27 .2 Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from adverse movements in interest rates, either through a mismatch  
of interest-bearing assets and liabilities, or through the effect such movements have on the value of interest-bearing instruments.
The Group is exposed to interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business. However, likely possible movements  
in interest rates on the Group’s bank accounts do not cause a material difference to the Consolidated Income Statement. Seed capital 
investments are not currently exposed to interest rate risk. This exposure is monitored by management on a continuous basis. 
27 .3 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
Group liquidity is managed on a daily basis by the Group’s Finance function, to ensure that the Group has sufficient cash or highly liquid 
assets available to meet its liabilities. Finance also controls and monitors the use of the Group’s non-operating capital resources. It is the 
Group’s policy to ensure that it has access to funds to cover all forecast commitments for at least the next 12 months. 
The maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities and obligations, including those classified as held for sale, are as follows:
At 31 December 2015
Within 1 year  
or repayable  
on demand  
£m
Within  
2-5 years  
£m
After 5 years  
£m
Total  
£m
Carrying  
value in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Financial 
Position  
£m
Debt instrument in issue (including interest) 155.4 – – 155.4 152.9
Trade and other payables (excluding deferred income  
and accrued debt interest) 287 .3 10.7 – 298.0 298.0
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 98.0 26.5 – 124.5 119.3
Provisions 2.6 6.6 2.7 11.9 11.9
543.3 43.8 2.7 589.8 582.1
138 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 At 31 December 2014
Within 1 year  
or repayable  
on demand  
£m
Within  
2-5 years  
£m
After 5 years  
£m
Total  
£m
Carrying  
value in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Financial 
Position  
£m
Debt instrument in issue (including interest) 10.9 155.4 – 166.3 152.4
Trade and other payables (excluding deferred income  
and accrued debt interest) 286.5 11.4 – 297 .9 297 .9
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 52.1 35.8 1.9 89.8 83.2
Provisions 3.4 8.0 3.4 14.8 12.8
 352.9 210.6 5.3 568.8 546.3
27 .4 Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk through its exposure to non-GBP income, expenses, assets and liabilities of its overseas 
subsidiaries as well as net assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than GBP. The currency exposure is managed by 
monitoring foreign currency positions. The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce or eliminate the currency exposure  
on certain individual transactions. The Group also seeks to use natural hedges to reduce exposure. Where there is a mismatch on material 
currency flows and the timing is reasonably certain, they are actively hedged. Where there is insufficient certainty, the currency  
is translated back into GBP on receipt. Foreign currency risk management is overseen by the Hedge Committee.
A rolling programme of forward foreign currency contracts has been implemented to hedge the currency exposures arising from certain 
seed capital investments (being available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss) and consolidated 
structured entities with a year end notional value of USD130.0m, EUR7 .7m and A$38.3m (2014: USD80.2m, EUR10.9m and A$30.0m).
Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis
Fund related investments are either denominated in GBP or hedged back to GBP using forward foreign currency contracts based  
on the Group’s hedging policy. In addition, there are unhedged foreign currency cash balances and net trading receipts in subsidiaries  
of the Group.
The table below illustrates the impact of adjusting year end exchange rates on all unhedged financial assets and liabilities, including those 
classified as held for sale, denominated in currencies material to the Group other than GBP:
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
2015 2014
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  
£m
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement  
£m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Comprehensive 
Income  
£m
US dollar +/- 10% 2.5 3.8 0.7 0.6
Singaporean dollar +/- 10% 0.4 0.9 2.1 1.0
Australian dollar +/- 10% 1.0 0.1 0.7 0.2
Japanese yen +/- 10% 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1
Euro +/- 10% 2.9 1.5 3.3 3.8
Strategic report Financial statements
139 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
27 .5 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a counterparty of the Group defaulting on funds deposited with it or the non-receipt of a trade debt. 
The Group has an established credit policy to ensure that it only transacts with counterparties that are able to meet satisfactory rating 
requirements. Counterparty limits are reviewed and set centrally by the Credit Risk Committee. Management is responsible for ensuring 
that it remains within these limits and the Risk function monitors and reports any exceptions to the policy. Other than as part of the 
wind-down of private equity (£3.3m), the Group has not suffered any losses as a result of trade debtor or counterparty defaults during  
the year (2014: £nil).
The Risk function is also responsible for reporting credit exposures to the Board Risk Committee on a quarterly basis and for ensuring  
that any credit concerns are raised and actions taken to mitigate risks.
The table below contains an analysis of current and overdue trade debtors, including those classified as held for sale. All other financial 
assets are not past due. 
At 31 December 2015
Not past due  
£m
0-3 months 
past due  
£m
3-6 months 
past due  
£m
6-12 months 
past due  
£m
Greater than  
12 months  
past due  
£m
Total  
£m
Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust  
debtors, trade debtors and other debtors 211.0 9.1 – 0.7 0.6 221.4
At 31 December 2014
Not past due  
£m
0-3 months 
past due  
£m
3-6 months 
past due  
£m
6-12 months 
past due  
£m
Greater than  
12 months  
past due  
£m
Total  
£m
Accrued income, OEIC and unit trust  
debtors, trade debtors and other debtors 258.8 2.4 1.4 4.9 0.1 267 .6
Included within financial assets is £nil (2014: £45.1m) due from a single fund where the Group has a priority call on assets.
The table below contains an analysis of cash and cash equivalents, including balances classified as held for sale, as rated by Fitch Ratings. 
All other financial assets of the Group are generally not rated.
At 31 December 2015
AAA  
£m
AA  
£m
A  
£m
BBB/ 
not rated  
£m
Total  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 78.0 193.1 96.2 14.3 381.6
At 31 December 2014
AAA  
£m
AA  
£m
A  
£m
BBB/ 
not rated  
£m
Total  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 36.9 125.6 80.1 0.2 242.8
140 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 28. Leases
Group
Operating leases
The Group is party to property leases in the UK and internationally. A 20.5 year operating lease was entered into during 2008 on 201 
Bishopsgate, London, which provides for reviews to open market rent on every fifth anniversary of the lease and provided an initial rent-free 
period of 30 months. The rental expense on this lease is being recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
On acquisition of New Star and Gartmore, the Group became party to three further UK material operating leases. These are in relation  
to 1 Knightsbridge Green, London, 8 Lancelot Place, London and Rex House, Queen Street, London. At the reporting date, the leases  
run for a period of nine months, seven years and 10 years respectively. A void properties provision has been recognised for these leases  
at the net present value of the net expected future cash outflows (refer to note 22). The Group also has property leases in Australia, 
Singapore and the USA.
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Within one year 16.1 15.1
In two to five years inclusive 56.8 52.9
After five years 72.8 84.0
Total 145.7 152.0
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases within one year at the reporting 
date, were £7 .0m (2014: £6.1m).
29.  Capital commitments
Group and Company
The amounts of capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the financial statements at 31 December 2015 amounted to £nil 
(2014: £nil).
30.  Related party transactions
Company
Details of transactions between the Company and its controlled entities, which are related parties, together with amounts due from and to 
these related parties at the reporting date, are disclosed below:
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Transactions with related parties during the year
Movements in capital contributions to indirect subsidiary companies (1.0) 28.8
Dividends received 277.0 98.4
Net settlement of balances with subsidiary companies (112.2) 24.2
Amounts owed by/(to) related parties at 31 December 
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 18 8.7 2.3
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 24 (20.1) (125.9)
Group
Disclosures relating to investments accounted for using the equity method and Group pension schemes are covered under notes 15.2 
and 21 respectively. Transactions between the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and between controlled subsidiaries, which are 
related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
Strategic report Financial statements
141 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
30.  Related party transactions continued
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
The aggregate annual remuneration of Executive Committee members and all Directors, representing key management personnel, is 
disclosed below for 2015 (all Code Staff were classified as key management personnel in 2014. The remuneration of the additional staff 
members disclosed in 2014 amounted to £2.3m):
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Short-term employee benefits 14.2 15.0
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.4
Share-based payments 15.5 5.9
 30.0 21.3
Share-based payments attributable to key management personnel are calculated based on the value of awards that have vested  
in the year. 
As at 31 December 2015, there were 8.9m unvested £nil cost options (2014: 11.3m) and 7 .0m unvested £nil cost shares outstanding 
(2014: 2.2m) for this population. In addition, the value of unvested units held in funds at 31 December 2015 was £3.6m (2014: £2.7m).
31. Contingent liabilities
Group
The following contingent liabilities existed or may exist at 31 December 2015: 
• In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to certain legal or tax matters, which could involve litigation and arbitration,  
and may result in contingent liabilities; 
• Under the Implementation Agreement dated 6 July 2010 relating to the transfer of management responsibilities to Aviva Investors  
for the Henderson International Property Fund, the Group gave certain tax related warranties for a period of six years from the date  
of the agreement. These warranties are subject to certain exclusions and limitations, including a financial cap; 
• Under the Facilitation Agreement dated 8 December 2010 relating to the merger of the assets of the Henderson Liquid Assets Fund 
(HLAF) into the Deutsche Managed Sterling Fund, the Group gave: (a) certain tax warranties relating to HLAF; and (b) indemnities 
against certain losses arising from liabilities of HLAF existing prior to the effective date of the merger, certain warranted statements 
being untrue and any miscalculation of the net asset value of HLAF in the period prior to the effective date of the merger. These 
warranties and indemnities are subject to certain exclusions and limitations, including a financial cap. The warranties relating  
to taxation will expire on 28 February 2018 and the indemnities will expire on 28 February 2017;
• Under the Share Purchase Agreement dated 13 May 2011 relating to the sale of the entire issued share capital of WorldInvest 
Management Ltd. to Connor, Clark & Lunn UK Limited (CC&L), the Group gave an indemnity against losses suffered by CC&L arising 
from prior acts, omissions, liabilities or obligations of New Star Institutional Managers Limited that do not relate to its business, with  
no expiry date;
• Under the Share Sale Agreement dated 1 November 2011 relating to the sale of the entire issued share capital of Gartmore JV Limited 
to Hermes Fund Managers Limited, the Group gave an indemnity against any liabilities of Gartmore JV Limited existing prior to, or arising 
as a result of, completion of the sale, subject to certain exceptions. The indemnity is subject to certain exclusions and limitations, 
including a financial cap, with no expiry date; 
• Under the Joint Venture and Shareholder Agreement dated 17 May 2012 with Sesame Bankhall Group Limited (Sesame) relating  
to Optimum Investment Management Limited (OIML) which acts as authorised corporate director of an OEIC, the Group gave to:  
(a) Sesame and OIML, certain warranties relating to OIML; and (b) OIML, certain indemnities in respect of losses that may be suffered 
by OIML and which arise from acts, omissions or circumstances occurring prior to completion of that agreement. Those warranties and 
indemnities are subject to certain exclusions and limitations and will expire on 17 May 2019; 
142 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 • Under the Implementation Agreement dated 24 June 2013 relating to the contribution of the Henderson property business outside 
North America (non-US Property Business) to a joint venture company (named TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited) with TIAA-CREF 
Asset Management Inc., the Group gave: (a) certain warranties and tax covenants relating to itself and the non-US Property Business; 
and (b) certain indemnities against (i) certain losses that may be incurred by certain companies prior to completion of the transaction  
or that may arise as a result of completion, (ii) certain undertakings being breached and (iii) stamp duty being incurred in connection with 
the transfer of shares in certain companies to be transferred to the joint venture. These warranties, covenants and indemnities  
are subject to certain exclusions and limitations, including (other than in relation to certain of the indemnities referred to in (b) (i) above)  
a financial cap. The warranties relating to matters other than taxation have expired and no claims have been notified that the Group 
considers likely to give rise to a liability. The tax warranties and tax covenant will expire on the seventh anniversary of completion  
of the transaction;
• Under the Asset Purchase Agreement dated 24 June 2013 relating to the sale and purchase of the Henderson property business in 
North America (US Property Business) to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America (TIAA), the Group gave an indemnity 
(with no express expiry date) against certain losses that may arise from (i) any liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction, (ii) all 
taxes of the Group not relating to the US Property Business and any pre-completion taxes and (iii) certain employee related liabilities 
other than any that may be assumed by TIAA under the Asset Purchase Agreement;
• Under the terms of the Gartmore Pension Scheme wind-up, the indemnity provided by the Group to the Trustee, covering all liabilities 
and expenses incurred by the Trustee, including actions against it, will continue for 12 years after the signing of the deed of termination 
on 10 February 2014;
• Under the Share Sale Agreement dated 30 April 2014, and completed on 1 December 2014, relating to the acquisition of Henderson 
Global Investors (Holdings) Limited’s 50% shareholding in Intrinsic Cirilium Investment Company Limited (ICICL) by its joint venture 
partner, Intrinsic Financial Services Limited, the Group provided certain warranties relating to its shareholding and the conduct of ICICL 
during the period for which it was a joint venture company and indemnified ICICL for (a) 39.7% of losses suffered post completion 
relating to its conduct during this period; and (b) all losses arising to it relating to the period before it became a joint venture company. 
The warranties (other than certain fundamental warranties) are subject to certain exclusions and limitations including a financial cap  
and will expire 18 months following completion; and
• Under the Share Sale Agreement dated 28 April 2015 relating to the acquisition by entities controlled by TIAA-CREF of Henderson 
Global Investors (Holdings) Limited’s remaining 40% shareholding in TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited, the Group gave certain 
warranties relating to itself and its shareholding in TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited. These warranties are subject to certain 
exclusions and limitations (including a financial cap) and will expire on 1 June 2017 .
As at the date of approval of the 2015 financial statements, the Group and Company neither foresee nor have they been notified  
of any material claims under outstanding warranties and indemnities from the above-mentioned agreements.
Strategic report Financial statements
143 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements continued
32.  Movements in controlled entities
Group
32.1 Acquisitions 
Acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest Partners Pty Ltd (PFI) and Perennial Growth Management Pty Ltd (PGM)
On 1 November 2015, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of PFI and PGM (together Perennial). This acquisition will allow 
the Group to continue its strategy to grow and globalise and to leverage the distribution platforms on which Perennial funds are included 
for other Group products. These benefits are reflected in the value of the goodwill recognised. 
The Group made an initial cash payment of A$76.5m (£35.3m). Contingent deferred consideration that meets the definition of 
consideration for the business, payable over four years if revenue retention and growth targets are achieved, is also potentially payable. 
The gross amount of deferred consideration potentially payable will be between A$nil and A$15.0m (£nil and £6.9m). 
2015  
£m
Cash 35.3
Present value of contingent deferred consideration 0.4
Total consideration 35.7
Less:
Assets recognised in completion balance sheet (including £0.6m of cash) 0.7
Investment management contracts (IMCs) recognised on consolidation 16.1
16.8
Residual goodwill balance recognised before deferred tax 18.9
Deferred tax on IMCs recognised on consolidation 4.8
Goodwill recognised 23.7
Perennial contributed income and profit after tax of £2.0m and £0.6m respectively between the acquisition date and 31 December 2015. 
Had Perennial been acquired on 1 January 2015, the business would have contributed income and profit after tax of £12.1m and £3.5m 
respectively to the 2015 Consolidated Income Statement.
Contingent payments linked to the continuing employment of the sellers will be recognised through the Consolidated Income Statement 
over the period of the earn-out as an acquisition related charge. 
The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
Due to the close proximity of the transaction to the reporting date, the accounting entries are provisional. However, the initial figures 
recognised are not expected to materially change. 
Acquisition of 90 West Asset Management Limited (90 West)
On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 58.6% of the shares of 90 West. The acquisition of 90 West will enable the  
Group to fully benefit from the pipeline of new business the Group and 90 West created together, this being the main driver of the 
goodwill recognised. 90 West was previously equity accounted for as an associate and has now been fully consolidated. The total cost  
of the acquisition recognised is A$12.2m (£6.1m) comprising: an upfront payment of A$4.3m (£2.2m); deferred consideration of A$2.8m 
(£1.4m); and the fair value of the Group’s previously held 41.4% interest at A$5.1m (£2.5m). Contingent payments linked to the 
continuing employment of the sellers will be recognised through the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the earn-out  
as an acquisition related charge. The consideration of A$12.2m (£6.1m) less net assets acquired of A$0.7m (£0.3m) has been 
recognised as goodwill.
32.2 Disposals
On 27 January 2015, the Group disposed of its controlling interest in the following entity:
• Anglo-Sino Henderson Investment Consultancy (Beijing) Co Ltd.
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
144 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 33. Events after the reporting date
Group
The Board had not, as at 10 February 2016, being the date the financial statements were approved, received any information concerning 
significant conditions in existence at the reporting date, which has not been reflected in the financial statements as presented. The Board 
has, however, given due regard to the event described below which occurred after the reporting date.
On 10 February 2016, the Group entered into a revolving credit facility for £30.0m. Currently, there are no amounts drawn down.
34. Subsidiaries of the Group
Group 
The subsidiaries of the Group are as follows:
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of operation
Functional 
currency
Percentage 
owned 2015 Principal activity
Advizas Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Alphagen Capital Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services 
Asset Management Holdings UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
CLOF II UK Limited UK GBP 100% Investment holding company
Gartmore Capital Management Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Gartmore Group Limited Cayman Islands GBP 100% Holding company
Gartmore Investment Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Gartmore Investment Management Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Gartmore Investment Services GmbH Germany EUR 100% Company in liquidation
Gartmore Investment Services Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Gartmore Securities Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Gartmore Services Limited Jersey GBP 100% Professional services
Gartmore US Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Geneva Capital Management LLC USA USD 100% Investment management services
Gibran Securities Pty Limited Australia AUD 100% Holding company
G.I.L. Nominees Limited UK GBP 100% Dormant company
H3 Global Advisors Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
H3 Global Advisors Pty Limited Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Administration Limited UK GBP 100% Administrative services
Henderson AE Pty Limited Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
Henderson AFI Pty Limited Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Alternative Investment Advisor Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Asset Management Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson (Bull Ring) Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Henderson Equity Holdings LLC USA USD 100% Holding company
Henderson Equity Partners (GP) Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
Henderson Equity Partners Funds Limited Jersey GBP 100% Investment holding company
Henderson Equity Partners India Private Limited India INR 100% Investment management services
Henderson Equity Partners Jersey (GP) Limited Jersey GBP 100% General partner
Henderson Equity Partners Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Henderson Finances UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Fund Management (Luxembourg) SA Luxembourg EUR 100% Company in liquidation
Henderson Fund Management Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Group Limited Ireland GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Global Investors (Australia) Funds Management Limited Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors (Australia) Institutional Funds 
Management Limited
Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors (Australia) Limited Australia AUD 100% Administrative services
Henderson Global Investors (Brand Management) Sarl Luxembourg GBP 100% Intellectual property
Henderson Global Investors (Holdings) Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Global Investors (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong HKD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors (International Holdings) BV Netherlands EUR 100% Holding company
Henderson Global Investors (Ireland) Limited Ireland EUR 100% Investment management services
Strategic report Financial statements
145 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Country of incorporation and 
principal place of operation
Functional 
currency
Percentage 
owned 2015 Principal Activity
Henderson Global Investors (Japan) Limited Japan JPY 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors (North America) Inc USA USD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors (Schweiz) AG Switzerland CHF 100% Marketing services
Henderson Global Investors (Singapore) Limited Singapore SGD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors Asset Management Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Global Investors BV Netherlands EUR 100% Marketing services
Henderson Global Investors Equity Planning Inc USA USD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors Geneva (Luxembourg) Finance SA Luxembourg USD 100% Group financing
Henderson Global Investors Geneva Finance Limited UK USD 100% Holding company
Henderson Global Investors Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Henderson Global Investors NPC Holdings LLC USA USD 100% Holding company
Henderson Holdings Group BV Netherlands GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Holdings Group Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson Holdings Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
Henderson International GP LLC USA USD 100% General partner
Henderson International Inc USA USD 100% Holding company
Henderson Investment Consulting (Beijing) Limited China CNY 100% Investment management services
Henderson Investment Funds Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Henderson Investment Management Limited UK GBP 100% Investment management services
Henderson Investors Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
Henderson Management SA Luxembourg USD 100% Investment management services
Henderson Nominees Limited UK GBP 100% Dormant company
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited UK GBP 100% Company secretarial services
Henderson UK Finance plc UK GBP 100% Group financing
Henderson Unit Trusts Limited UK GBP 100% Dormant company
HEP (GP) Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
HGI (Investments) Limited UK GBP 100% Investment holding company
HGI Asset Management Group Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
HGI Group Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
HGI OMP UK Limited UK GBP 100% Investment holding company
HGP2 Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
HGP3 Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
HGP4 Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
HGP5 Limited UK GBP 100% General partner
HPC Nominees Limited UK GBP 100% Dormant company
New Star Asset Management (Bermuda) Limited Bermuda GBP 100% Investment management services
New Star Asset Management Group Limited UK GBP 100% Holding company
New Star Institutional Managers Holdings Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
New Star International Investment Products Limited Bermuda GBP 100% Dormant company
Oxford Acquisition III Limited UK GBP 100% Group financing
UKFP (Asia) Nominees Limited British Virgin Islands HKD 100% Dormant company
UKLS Financial Planning Limited UK GBP 100% Company in liquidation
90 West Asset Management Limited Australia AUD 100% Investment management services
The Group has a number of regulated subsidiaries which are subject to the capital requirements of certain regulatory bodies which can 
restrict their ability to remit funds to an immediate, intermediate or ultimate holding company within the Group. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
Group and Company continued
34. Subsidiaries of the Group continued
Financial statements continued
146 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Contents
148 Glossary
150 Shareholder information
152 Summary of movements in AUM
153 Five year financial summary (unaudited)
OTHER 
INFORMATION
Strategic report Other information
147 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Glossary
90 West
90 West Asset Management Limited
2016 Notes
Senior, unrated fixed rate notes  
due 24 March 2016
AGM
Annual General Meeting
AIFMD
EU Alternative Investment Fund  
Managers Directive
ASX
Australian Securities Exchange
ASX Principles
The ASX Corporate Governance Council 
issued Corporate Governance Principles 
and Recommendations
AUM
Assets under management
BAYE
Buy As Y ou Earn Share Plan
Board
The board of directors  
of Henderson Group plc
bps
Basis points
BRC
Board Risk Committee
CDIs
CHESS Depositary Interests
CDP
Formerly known as  
Carbon Disclosure Project
CDXs
Credit default indices
CFDs
Contracts for difference
CFO
Chief Financial Officer
Code Staff
Employees who perform a significant 
influence function, senior management  
and risk takers whose professional  
activities could have a material impact  
on a firm’s risk profile
Company
Henderson Group plc 
compensation ratio
Employee compensation and benefits  
from continuing operations divided by  
net fee income from continuing operations, 
calculated on an underlying profit basis 
CPI
Consumer Price Index
CRO
Chief Risk Officer
CSOP
Company Share Option Plan
DEP
Deferred Equity Plan
Directors
The directors of Henderson Group plc
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EMEA
Europe, Middle East and Africa
EPS
Earnings per share
ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance
ESOP
Employee Share Ownership Plan
ExCo
Executive Committee
Executive Directors
Being the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer
ExSOP
Executive Shared Ownership Plan
FCA
UK Financial Conduct Authority
FRC
UK Financial Reporting Council
FSCS
Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme
FTE
Full-Time Equivalent
FX
Foreign Exchange
GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles
Gartmore
Gartmore Group Limited and its  
controlled entities
Gartmore acquisition
The acquisition of the entire share  
capital of Gartmore Group Limited
Geneva
Geneva Capital Management LLC
GHG emissions
Greenhouse Gas emissions
Group
Henderson Group plc and 
its controlled entities
hedge funds
Hedge funds including absolute 
return funds
Henderson
Controlled entities of Henderson Group plc 
carrying out core investment 
management activities 
HGPS
Henderson Group Pension Scheme
HLAF
Henderson Liquid Assets Fund 
HMRC
HM Revenue & Customs 
HR
Human Resources
IAS 
International Accounting Standard
ICAAP
Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process
ICICL
Intrinsic Cirilium Investment 
Company Limited
IFRS IC
International Financial Reporting  
Standards Interpretations Committee
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union
148 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 KPI
Key performance indicator
LLC
Limited Liability Company
LLP
Limited Liability Partnership
LSE
London Stock Exchange
LTIP
Long-Term Incentive Plan
management fee margin
Management fees divided by average  
assets under management
MiFID II
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 2
net margin
Underlying profit before tax from continuing  
operations divided by average assets  
under management
New Star
New Star Asset Management Group PLC 
and its controlled entities
OEIC
Open-Ended Investment Company
OIML
Optimum Investment Management Limited
operating margin
Net fee income from continuing operations 
less total operating expenses from 
continuing operations divided by net  
fee income from continuing operations
OTC
Over The Counter
Perennial
Perennial Fixed Interest Partners Pty Limited 
and Perennial Growth Management Pty 
Limited
PwC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RPI
Retail Price Index
RSP
Restricted Share Plan
SA YE
Sharesave Scheme
SICAV
Société d’investissement à capital  
variable (collective investment scheme)
TCF
Treating Customers Fairly
TH Real Estate
The joint venture vehicle named  
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited  
into which the Group contributed its 
European and Asian property business
TIAA-CREF transactions
The agreement to sell the North American 
property business and to contribute the 
European and Asian property business  
into a newly formed joint venture,  
TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited
total fee margin
Net fee income from continuing  
operations divided by average assets  
under management
TRSs
Total return swaps
TSR
Total Shareholder Return
UCITS
Undertaking for Collective Investment  
in Transferable Securities
UK/United Kingdom
The United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland
UK Code
Financial Reporting Council issued UK 
Corporate Governance Code
UK Companies Act
Companies Act 2006
UNPRI
United Nations Principles for 
Responsible Investment
Strategic report Other information
149 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Shareholder information
As at 10 February 2016
Total number of holders of shares and CDIs and their voting rights
The issued share capital of Henderson Group plc consisted of 1,131,842,109 shares held by 41,554 security holders. This included 
595,978,320 shares, held by CHESS Depositary Nominees Pty Limited (CDN), quoted on the ASX in the form of CHESS Depositary 
Interests (CDIs) and held by 36,794 CDI holders. Each registered holder of shares present in person (or by proxy, attorney or 
representative) at a meeting of shareholders has one vote on a vote taken by a show of hands, and one vote for each fully paid share  
held on a vote taken on a poll. CDI holders can instruct CDN to appoint a proxy on their behalf and can direct the proxy how to vote  
on the basis of one vote per person taken by a show of hands, and one vote per CDI on a vote taken on a poll.
Twenty largest share/CDI holders
Shares/CDIs
 % of issued 
capital
1 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 122,903,421 10.86
2 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 104,503,909 9.23
3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 94,066,322 8.31
4 Chase Nominees Limited 84,779,218 7.49
5 National Nominees Limited 78,549,416 6.94
6 State Street Nominees Limited 76,307 ,404 6.74
7 Wealth Nominees Limited 58,471,097 5.17
8 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 55,908,998 4.94
9 Vidacos Nominees Limited 44,630,373 3.94
10 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited 25,841,096 2.28
11 HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 17 ,904,078 1.58
12 Hargreaves Lansdown (Nominees) Limited 16,729,253 1.48
13 Nutraco Nominees Limited 12,524,455 1.11
14 AMP Life Limited 12,208,542 1.08
15 BNY Mellon Nominees Limited 8,471,507 0.75
16 The Bank of New Y ork (Nominees) Limited 6,661,721 0.59
17 Hanover Nominees Limited 6,309,539 0.56
18 Lynchwood Nominees Limited 5,249,078 0.46
19 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,776,835 0.24
20 Dr Peter Malcolm Heyworth 1,894,013 0.17
Top 20 total 836,690,275 73.92
Total shares 1,131,842,109 100.00
Distribution of share/CDI holdings
Categories
Number of 
holders
% of issued 
capital
1 – 1,000 29,181 1.34
1,001 – 5,000 8,854 1.77
5,001 – 10,000 1,764 1.13
10,001 – 100,000 1,426 3.11
100,001 and over 329 92.65
Total 41,554 100.00
1,222 share/CDI holders held less than A$500 worth of shares/CDIs i.e. fewer than 103 shares/CDIs.
Stock exchange listings
Henderson Group plc is listed on the LSE and its CDIs are quoted on the ASX.
150 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Substantial shareholders
Details of the Company’s substantial shareholders are set out in the Directors’ report on page 89.
Total number of options over unissued shares
There were 30,104,381 options over unissued ordinary shares in the Company held by 831 option holders.
Restricted securities
There are no restricted securities in issue.
Buyback
There is no current on-market buyback of CDIs on the ASX. The Company has authority to purchase ordinary shares on the LSE.
Company Secretary
Jacqui Irvine
Principal place of business in the United Kingdom
201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE 
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7818 1818
Registered office in Jersey
47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD
Registered office in Australia
Level 5, Deutsche Bank Place, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
Phone: +61 (0) 2 9230 4000
Share registry
Australia
Henderson Group Share Registry, GPO Box 4578, Melbourne VIC 3001 
Phone: 1300 137 981 or +61 (0) 3 9415 4081 
Fax: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500
Jersey
Henderson Group Share Registry, Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES 
Phone: +44 (0) 1534 281842 
Fax: +44 (0) 370 873 5851
New Zealand
Henderson Group Share Registry, Private Bag 92119, Auckland 1142 
Phone: 0800 888 017 
Fax: +64 (0) 9 488 8787
Email
CDI holders: henderson@computershare.com.au 
Shareholders: info@computershare.co.je
Website
www.henderson.com/IR
This document is printed on Hello Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC® 
certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. 100% of the inks used 
are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled. 
Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc  
www.blacksunplc.com
Strategic report Other information
151 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 £m
Opening AUM  
1 Jan 2015 Net flows Market/FX
Acquisitions and 
disposals
1
Closing AUM 
31 Dec 2015
Closing AUM
 net
 management
 fee bps
2
31 Dec 2015
Retail
UK OEICs/Unit Trusts/Other
3
20,615 1,261 891 591 23,358
SICAVs 14,171 4,328 829 – 19,328
US Mutuals 6,005 2,291 351 – 8,647
Investment Trusts 5,216 152 214 – 5,582
Total Retail 46,007 8,032 2,285 591 56,915 73
Institutional
UK OEICs/Unit Trusts 9,093 497 152 – 9,742
SICAVs 1,266 276 23 – 1,565
Australian MIS – (3) 38 1,464 1,499
Offshore Absolute Return Funds 2,513 (129) 262 (249) 2,397
Managed CDOs 251 (159) 10 – 102
Segregated Mandates 15,530 396 783 2,944 19,653
TH Real Estate (40% share) 5,650 154 (87) (5,717) –
Private Equity Funds
5
823 (545) (220) – 58
Other
4
29 23 2 – 54
Total Institutional 35,155 510 963 (1,558) 35,070 26
Group total 81,162 8,542 3,248 (967) 91,985 55
Total asset class
Equities
6
50,706 6,672 3,369 144 60,891 67
Fixed Income
7
21,322 1,434 (51) 4,136 26,841 28
Property
8
8,295 975 148 (5,247) 4,171 n/a
Private Equity
5
839 (539) (218) – 82 n/a
Total Group 81,162 8,542 3,248 (967) 91,985 55
Absolute Return analysis
Retail 3,395 1,994 148 12 5,549
Institutional 3,222 149 31 – 3,402
Total Absolute Return 6,617 2,143 179 12 8,951
Notes:
1. Acquisitions and disposals reflects the merger of the Old Mutual property fund into Henderson UK Property OEIC in January 2015, the net impact of the sale of the 
Group’s 40% share of TH Real Estate completed on 1 June 2015; the transfer of Richard Pease’s European Special Situations fund; the additional stake taken by  
the Group in 90 West Asset Management in May 2015; and the acquisition of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management on 1 November 2015.
2.  Closing management fee bps excludes joint venture and associates AUM.
3. Includes Australian Managed Investment Schemes (MIS), Singapore Mutuals and Retail Segregated Mandates.
4. Includes Singapore Mutuals and US Mutuals.
5. Private Equity funds’ closing AUM is based on 30 September 2015 valuations.
6. Equities includes Multi-Asset and Commodities.
7. Fixed Income includes Cash.
8. Includes AUM of the Henderson UK Property OEIC which is sub-advised by TH Real Estate.
9.  Certain items (including training and recruitment agency costs) were reclassified from employee compensation and benefits to oth er expenses in 2014.  
There was no impact on prior year profits. Prior year comparatives were restated.
10. Underlying profit, while not a GAAP measure, in the opinion of the Directors, gives relevant information on the profitability of the Group and its ongoing operations.
1 1. Figures on these line items for the years ended 31 December 20 15 and 2014 are audited; figures for the years ended 31 December 2013, 2012 and 201 1  
were audited and restated.
12. Net fee income from continuing operations less total operating expenses from continuing operations divided by net fee income from continuing operations.
13. Employee compensation and benefits from continuing operations divided by net fee income from continuing operations, calculated on an underlying profit basis. 
14. Net margin calculated on underlying profit before tax from continuing operations divided by average assets under management.
15. Based on underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent.
16.  Asset-weighted performance of funds measured over one and three years to 3 1 December 2015. Performance for 2013 and 2014 includes Henderson UK Property 
OEIC – all prior periods include Property and Henderson UK Property OEIC performance.
17. FY13 performance data reflects a minor restatement, previously reported as 82%.
Summary of movements in AUM
152 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Five year financial summary (unaudited)
FY15 
£m
FY14 
£m
FY13 
(restated)
9
 
£m
FY12  
(restated)
9
 
£m
FY11 
(restated)
9
  
£m
Income
Management fees (net of commissions) 468.3 403.5 331.9 301.9 309.8
Performance fees 98.7 82.8 94.5 30.4 63.4
Other income 34.8 32.5 34.9 39.2 48.3
Net fee income from continuing operations 601.8 518.8 461.3 371.5 421.5
(Loss)/Income from associates and joint ventures (0.2) 5.1 1.8 – (0.9)
Finance income 17.3 10.1 10.2 14.1 11.6
Net income from continuing operations 618.9 534.0 473.3 385.6 432.2
Expenses
Fixed employee compensation and benefits
9
(99.9) (88.4) (80.6) (83.3) (82.3)
Variable employee compensation and benefits (168.7) (143.6) (128.8) (70.6) (96.5)
Employee compensation and benefits (268.6) (232.0) (209.4) (153.9) (178.8)
Investment administration (31.6) (30.2) (24.4) (24.8) (27 .2)
Information technology (20.0) (17 .1) (17 .1) (14.4) (13.5)
Office expenses (16.9) (15.0) (13.7) (13.3) (13.3)
Depreciation (5.2) (4.7) (3.2) (2.8) (2.9)
Other expenses
9
(44.5) (35.6) (28.9) (35.5) (39.0)
Total operating expenses from continuing operations (386.8) (334.6) (296.7) (244.7) (274.7)
Finance expenses (12.1) (11.6) (11.1) (14.3) (17 .2)
Total expenses from continuing operations (398.9) (346.2) (307 .8) (259.0) (291.9)
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations
10, 11
220.0 187 .8 165.5 126.6 140.3
Underlying profit before tax from discontinued operation – 7.6 24.6 26.4 19.7
Underlying profit before tax from total operations
10, 11
220.0 195.4 190.1 153.0 160.0
Tax on underlying profit from continuing operations (22.9) (20.6) (17 .9) (15.3) (30.2)
Tax on underlying profit from discontinued operation – (1.3) (2.9) (4.2) (3.4)
Total underlying profit after tax
10, 11
197.1 173.5 169.3 133.5 126.4
Acquisition related items (59.6) (57 .0) (58.4) (64.1) (77 .0)
Non-recurring items 7.5 145.0 (4.3) 13.8 (69.2)
Tax on acquisition related items 12.7 11.2 17.9 18.5 19.4
Tax on non-recurring items 3.5 (14.2) 0.6 4.7 16.2
Non-recurring tax credit – – – – 18.9
Total acquisition related and non-recurring items after tax (35.9) 85.0 (44.2) (27 .1) (91.7)
Total profit
11
161.2 258.5 125.1 106.4 34.7
Attributable to:
Equity owners of the parent 161.2 258.5 125.1 106.2 34.8
Non-controlling interests – – – 0.2 (0.1)
Continuing KPIs
Operating margin
12
 (%) 35.7 35.5 35.7 34.1 34.8
Compensation ratio
9, 13
 (%) 44.6 44.7 45.4 41.4 42.4
Average number of full-time employees 955 875 812 861 838
Assets under management (AUM) at year end (£bn) 92.0 81.2 63.7 53.9 52.7
Average AUM for the year for margin calculations on continuing 
basis (£bn) 83.6 69.9 59.0 53.4 56.2
Management fee margin (bps) 56.0 57.8 56.3 56.5 55.1
Total fee margin (bps) 72.0 74.3 78.2 69.6 75.0
Net margin
14
 (bps) 26.3 26.9 28.1 23.7 25.0
Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic EPS (m) 1,093.1 1,085.2 1,058.8 1,034.0 954.1
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS (m) 1,143.0 1,139.8 1,137 .0 1,082.0 1,012.7
Basic on total underlying profit
10, 15
 (p) 18.0 16.0 16.0 12.9 13.3
Basic on continuing underlying profit
10, 15
 (p) 18.0 15.4 13.9 10.8 11.6
Basic (p) 14.7 23.8 11.8 10.3 3.6
Diluted on total underlying profit
10, 15
 (p) 17.2 15.2 14.9 12.3 12.5
Diluted on continuing underlying profit
10, 15
 (p) 17.2 14.7 13.0 10.3 10.9
Diluted (p) 14.1 22.7 11.0 9.8 3.4
Dividend per share (p) 10.30 9.00 8.00 7 .15 7 .00
Investment performance
16
Funds at or exceeding benchmark over one year (%) 78 66 78 73 59
Funds at or exceeding benchmark over three years (%)
17
81 83 81 69 66
153 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
For more information, please go to our website:  
henderson.com/IR
For shareholder queries, please contact the Henderson Group Share Registry:
Australia
GPO Box 4578 
Melbourne, VIC 3001
T:  1300 137 981 or 
+61 (0) 3 9415 4081
F: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500
henderson@computershare.com.au
Jersey
Queensway House 
Hilgrove Street, St Helier 
Jersey JE1 1ES
T: +44 (0) 1534 281842 
F: +44 (0) 870 873 5851
info@computershare.co.je
New Zealand
Private Bag 92119 
Auckland 1142
 
T: 0800 888 017 
F: +64 (0) 9 488 8787
henderson@computershare.com.au
Registered office:
47 Esplanade, St Helier 
Jersey JE1 0BD
201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE
