 plc
Annual report  
and financial statements  
2016
The leading specialist  
international meat  
packing business
Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2016  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Hilton Food Group plc, the leading 
specialist international meat packing 
business, announces its results for 
the 52 weeks to 1 January 2017.
2016 was a very strong year as Hilton continued to make good 
progress with volume and profit growth, range extension and 
the launch of a meat trading business despite competitive 
market conditions. The conclusion of a joint venture in 
Portugal and the development of a further factory in Australia 
demonstrates our geographical and operational growth and 
we continue to explore further expansion opportunities.
Overview 
Highlights 02
Where we operate 04
Strategic report
Chairman’s introduction 08
Chief Executive’s summary 10
Strategic objectives 10
Business model 11
Geographical spread 12
Currency translation 13
Culture and people 13
Performance overview 14
Past and future trends 15
Outlook and current trading 15
Performance and 
financial review 16
2016 Financial performance 16
Key performance 
indicators 18
Treasury management 20
Going concern statement 21
Viability statement 21
Forward looking 
statements 21
Risks management 
and principal risks 22
Corporate and social 
responsibility report 26
Approval of Strategic report 31
Governance
Board of Directors 34
Directors’ report 36
Corporate governance 
statement 38
Report of the 
Audit Committee 41
Report of the 
Nomination Committee 43
Report of the Risk 
Management Committee 44
Directors’  
remuneration report 45
Directors’  
remuneration policy 46
Annual report on 
remuneration 52
Statements of 
Directors’ responsibilities 58
Independent 
auditors’ report 59
Financial statements 
Consolidated 
income statement 66
Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 66
Consolidated balance sheet 67
Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity 68
Consolidated  
cash flow statement 69
Notes to the 
financial statements 70
Registered office 
and advisors 91 
01
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Highlights
2016 was a very strong year.
02
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Strategic highlights
 – Agreement with Woolworths to build 
and operate a new production facility 
in Queensland, Australia due to open 
in 2020
 – Joint venture agreement signed  
since the year end with Sonae  
Modelo Continente, Portugal’s  
leading food retailer following  
on from co-operation agreement
 – Successful range expansion into  
fresh pizza production in Sweden  
and Central Europe
 – Establishment of successful  
UK meat trading business
Operating highlights
 – Higher volumes with a good 
performance in the UK and encouraging 
growth in our Irish business
 – Ramp up of the facility in Melbourne, 
Australia
 – Turnover growth up 7.2% on a like-
for-like 52 week constant currency 
basis enhanced by favourable 
currency translation
 – Strong growth in underlying profitability 
with operating profit up 11.7% on a like-
for-like 52 week constant currency basis
 – Continued strong cash generation and 
an ungeared balance sheet 
£29.0m
£26.1m £25.8m £26.0m
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
£34.3m
Operating proﬁt (£m)
£34.3m
+18.4%
£1,094.8m £1,099.0m
£1,124.8m
£1,031.0m
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
£1,234.5m
Revenue (£m)
£1,234.5m
+12.8%
£12.7m
£(7.7)m
£4.9m
£(5.2)m
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
£32.3m
Net cash/(debt) (£m)
£32.3m
+154.3%
£12.7m
£(7.7)m
£4.9m
£(5.2)m
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
£32.3m
Net cash/(debt) (£m)
£32.3m
+154.3%
03
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Production facilities  
in seven countries.
Where we operate
Ireland
Location
Drogheda
Customer
Tesco Ireland
Commenced production
2004
United Kingdom
Location
Huntingdon
Customer
Tesco UK
Commenced production
1994
Netherlands
Location
Zaandam
Customer
Albert Heijn
Commenced production
2000
04
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Australia
Locations
Bunbury and Brisbane
Customer
Woolworths
Commenced joint venture
2013
Location
Melbourne
Customer
Woolworths
Commenced production
2015
Sweden
Location
Vasteras
Customer
ICA Gruppen
Commenced production
2004
Denmark
Location
Aarhus
Customer
Coop Danmark
Commenced production
2011
Central Europe
Location
Tychy, Poland
Customers
Ahold (2006) 
Tesco (2007) 
Rimi (2009)
Commenced production
2006
05
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 06
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Chairman’s introduction 08
Chief Executive’s summary 10
Strategic objectives 10
Business model 11
Geographical spread 12
Currency translation 13
Culture and people 13
Performance overview 14
Past and future trends 15
Outlook and current trading 15
Performance and financial review 16
2016 Financial performance 16
Key performance indicators 18
Treasury management 20
Going concern statement 21
Viability statement 21
Forward looking statements 21
Risks management and principal risks 22
Corporate and social responsibility report 26
Approval of Strategic report 31
Strategic 
report
07
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Chairman’s introduction
Colin Smith OBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Strategic progress
I am pleased to report continued progress 
in 2016 against our strategic objectives and 
a further expansion of our global footprint. 
In December 2016 we announced 
plans to expand packing capabilities in 
Australia with the construction of a new 
factory in Queensland with our existing 
Australian partner, Woolworths Ltd, 
which Hilton will finance and operate. 
In January 2017 we announced the joint 
venture agreement with Sonae Modelo 
Continente, the leading food retailer in 
Portugal, our fourteenth European country. 
Our product range has increased to include 
fresh pizzas and we have successfully 
launched a new UK meat trading company. 
These developments bode well for 
Hilton’s future.
Group performance
Despite competitive market conditions 
we grew our volume in 2016 maintaining 
a trend of continuous growth achieved 
in every year since Hilton’s flotation in 
2007. Strong underlying operating profit 
growth of over 11% was boosted further 
by favourable exchange translation 
movements to over 18%. Basic earnings 
per share at 33.7p were over 22% higher 
than last year. 
Hilton continued to generate significant 
cash during 2016 enabling the Group’s net 
cash position to grow from £12.7m at the 
end of 2015 to £32.3m at the end of the 
year. As well as being available to fund our 
new projects in Australia and Portugal we 
are well positioned to take advantage of 
other opportunities as they arise.
08
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Continued progress against  
our strategic objectives.
Our continued investment in our facilities 
includes new technology to increase 
capacity, improve operational efficiency 
and offer innovative solutions to our 
retailer partners.
There is currently a climate of local, global 
and geopolitical uncertainties including 
the UK’s decision to leave the European 
Union. Although the final terms of Brexit 
are unknown, Hilton’s predominantly local 
sourcing and operating model leaves us 
well placed and we are confident that 
the Hilton business is resilient to weather 
these uncertainties.
Dividend policy
The Board considers that the Group’s 
progressive dividend policy maintained 
since flotation remains appropriate, given 
both the strategic progress achieved in 
2016 and Hilton’s continuing strong level 
of cash generation. With the proposed 
final dividend of 12.5p per ordinary share 
for 2016, total dividends in respect of 
2016 will be 17.1p per ordinary share, an 
increase of 17.1% compared to last year. 
Our Board and governance
The Hilton Board is responsible for the 
long term success of the Group and, to 
achieve this, it contains an appropriate 
mix of skills and depth and a range of 
practical business experience, which 
is available to support and guide our 
management teams across a wide range 
of countries. 
During the year I was elected as the 
Company’s new Chairman. In addition 
two Non-Executive Directors, Sir David 
Naish and Chris Marsh, left the Board 
following completion of nine year terms 
and Theo Bergman also stepped down 
as an Executive Director due to personal 
circumstances. Each made a significant 
contribution to Hilton’s business and 
they leave with our very best wishes. 
John Worby and Christine Cross joined 
the Board as Non-Executive Directors 
bringing significant experience in public 
companies, as well as food and retail 
sectors. I believe that their appointments 
complement our Board with additional 
experience and diversity. I would like 
to thank my colleagues on the Board 
for their support, counsel and expertise 
during the year.
We remain committed to achieving good 
governance and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code including 
succession planning and maintaining a 
talent pipeline.
Annual General Meeting
This year’s AGM will be held at the Old 
Bridge Hotel, 1 High Street, Huntingdon, 
Cambridgeshire PE29 3TQ on 24 May 
2017 at noon and my colleagues and 
I very much look forward to seeing those 
of you who are able to attend.
Colin Smith OBE 
Non-Executive Chairman
29 March 2017
09
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic objectives
Our strategy continues to be to support our 
customers’ brands and their development 
in local markets, whilst achieving attractive 
and sustainable rates of growth in value 
for our shareholders. This straightforward 
approach has generated growth over 
an extended period of time and, with a 
strong reputation, well invested modern 
facilities and a robust balance sheet, the 
Group remains well positioned to achieve 
continuing progress.
Hilton seeks to build long term customer 
and shareholder value by focusing on:
 – Growing volumes and extending product 
ranges supplied and services provided to 
its existing customers;
 – Optimising the use of its assets and 
investing in new technology and 
capacity expansion as required;
 – Maintaining a vigilant focus on food 
safety and integrity and reducing unit 
costs, while improving product quality 
and service provision; and
 – Entering new territories and markets 
either with new customers or in 
partnership with our existing customers.
Chief Executive’s summary
Robert Watson OBE
Chief Executive
10
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
We will continue to pursue measured 
geographical expansion and range 
extension, whilst at the same time 
actively developing, enriching, deepening 
and expanding the scope of our 
existing business partnerships, playing 
a full and proactive role in supporting 
our customers and the successful 
development of their brands.
Business model
Our business model is the means 
by which we deliver on our strategic 
objectives. The Hilton business model 
is proven and sustainable, whilst being 
relatively simple and straightforward. 
We operate large scale, extensively 
automated and robotised meat 
processing and packing facilities for 
major international multiple retailers on 
a dedicated basis. The one exception is 
in Central Europe, where our facility in 
Poland supplies more multiple retailers 
in order to achieve critical mass in terms 
of volumes supplied and the consequent 
ability to achieve competitive unit 
packing costs. 
Raw material meat is sourced, in 
conjunction with our retail partners, from 
local sources and a wide international 
base of proven suppliers. It is then 
processed, packed and delivered to the 
retailers’ distribution centres or stores. 
Our plants are highly automated and 
use advanced robotics for the storage 
of raw materials and finished products. 
Developing robotics technology has 
been extended in recent years both in 
the production environment and to the 
sorting of finished products by retailer 
store order, achieving material supply 
chain efficiencies for our customers.
We seek to keep ourselves at the 
forefront of the meat packing industry, 
which helps ensure our continued 
competitiveness. We constantly look to 
drive efficiencies, always maintaining 
a pipeline of clear identifiable cost 
reduction initiatives and an open 
minded approach designed to 
continually challenge the status quo. 
We consider our modern, very well 
invested facilities to be a key factor in 
keeping unit packing costs as low as 
possible. Over the past thirteen years 
we have invested continuously across 
all areas of our business, including the 
sourcing of raw materials, the design of 
packaging materials, increased efficiency 
in processing and storage solutions 
and updating our IT infrastructure. 
Following substantial investment in 
the UK in 2014, we continue to invest, 
working in partnership with our customer 
Tesco PLC. This has subsequently 
delivered double-digit growth and market-
leading efficiencies, as well as product 
and packaging innovation all to the 
highest quality standards. Group capital 
expenditure over the period 2004-2016 
has totalled £226m. 
We have facilities in six countries in 
Europe each run by a local management 
team enhanced by specialist central 
leadership, expertise, advice and support. 
These businesses operate under the 
terms of five to ten year long term supply 
agreements with our retail partners, either 
on a cost plus, packing rate or volume 
based reward basis. These contractual 
arrangements, combined with our 
customer dedication, serve to maximise 
achievable volume throughput whilst 
minimising unit packing costs thereby 
delivering value to our customers. 
In Australia, our joint venture company 
receives a volume related management 
fee in respect of the facilities it operates 
on behalf of Woolworths. 
With new projects and continued 
focus on product development and 
range extension we are confident 
of making further progress. 
11
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Chief Executive’s summary continued
The strength of our long term partnerships 
with our retail customers has been a key 
driver of our growth since the Group was 
formed and will continue to underpin the 
Group’s strategy. Hilton’s business model 
has proved successful across a range 
of European countries and in Australia, 
appropriately adapted in each case by 
working in close collaboration with its 
local customers to meet their specific 
requirements. Our experience to date 
continues to indicate that our business 
model, appropriately adapted, can be 
successfully transferred to a number 
of new countries.
As well as our ability to provide excellent 
execution locally, we also have at our 
disposal a wide and deep expertise on 
a number of areas of specialism, such as 
engineering, food related IT applications, 
category management support and market 
intelligence. We are able to apply these 
skills to a number of markets to support 
our customers where required, and to do 
so in a cost-effective way.
Geographical spread
The Group’s rapid expansion has been 
based on its established track record, 
together with its growing international 
reputation and experience and the 
recognised success of the close 
partnerships it has forged and maintained 
with successful retail partners. We are 
an international business in fourteen 
European countries and Australia with 
production facilities in the seven countries 
listed opposite including the dates 
operations commenced.
Our facility in Tychy supplies Ahold stores 
in Czech Republic and Slovakia, Tesco 
stores in Hungary, Czech Republic, Poland 
and Slovakia and Rimi stores in Latvia, 
Lithuania and Estonia. Our facility at 
Zaandam also supplies Albert Heijn stores 
in Belgium.
Under the long term supply agreements 
we have in place with our customers, 
the parameters of our revenue are clearly 
defined. As well as income derived from 
the supply of retail packed meat products 
there are also provisions whereby our 
income can be increased or decreased 
subject to achievement of certain pre-
agreed and pre-defined key performance 
measures and targets designed to 
align our objectives with those of 
our customers.
We are a committed and loyal partner 
with a continuing record of delivering 
value through quality products with the 
highest levels of food safety, traceability 
and integrity, whilst providing a range of 
services which enable our customers to 
evolve and improve their meat supply 
chain management. Our customer base 
comprises high quality multiple retailers 
and our in-depth understanding of our 
customers’ needs, together with those 
of their consumers, enables us to play 
an active role in managing their meat 
supply chains whilst providing agile 
solutions to supply chain challenges as 
they arise. As our customers’ markets 
change and competition increases, we 
need to keep a constant focus on the 
challenges they face so as to be able to 
put forward flexible solutions, together 
with continuing increases in efficiency 
and cost competitiveness. This flexible 
approach towards and understanding 
of our local markets remains one of our 
core strengths.
74%
Volumes produced and 
sold outside the UK
12
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Year Country Location Customers
1994 UK Huntingdon Tesco UK
2000 Holland Zaandam Albert Heijn
2004 Ireland Drogheda Tesco Ireland
2004 Sweden Vasteras ICA Gruppen
2006 Central Europe Tychy, Poland Ahold CE (2006), 
Tesco CE (2007), 
Rimi (2009)
2011 Denmark Aarhus Coop Danmark
2013 Australia Bunbury and Brisbane (2013), 
Melbourne (2015)
Woolworths Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
benefits to our business. We fully 
recognise the benefits of gender diversity 
and details of the gender composition of 
our staff are set out in our Corporate and 
social responsibility report.
The Group currently employs 2,898 
employees in six European countries 
and Australia. Our business model is 
largely decentralised, with capable, 
largely self-sufficient management 
teams running our businesses in each 
local country. We consider this devolved 
structure to be a critical success factor, 
achieving close working relationships 
with our customers, who benefit from 
personal, dedicated, flexible and rapid 
local support.
The Board fully understands and 
appreciates just how much our 
progress relies on the effort, personal 
commitment, enthusiasm, enterprise 
and initiative of our employees. I would 
like to take this opportunity, on behalf of 
the Board, to personally thank all of them 
both for their dedicated efforts during 
2016 and their continuing commitment 
to the Group’s ongoing growth 
and development.
the Group trades have all appreciated 
significantly against Sterling, compared 
with the corresponding period in 2015, 
specifically, the Euro by 12.5%, the 
Danish Krone by 12.7%, the Polish Zloty 
by 7.9%, the Swedish Krona by 11.3% 
and the Australian Dollar by 11.6%.
Culture and people
Successful businesses are principally 
about having the right people in the 
right positions at the right time working 
together as “one team”, with local 
management teams empowered, 
encouraged and advised in specialist 
areas enabling them to support their 
local customers. The Group benefits 
from each of its businesses being part 
of a larger organisation, which enables 
them to share best practice solutions, 
including equipment selection, IT 
solutions and ways of working along 
with the collaborative sharing of new 
learnings, ideas and techniques.
We are committed to providing an 
inclusive working environment where 
everyone feels valued, respected and 
able to fulfil their potential. We recognise 
that people from different backgrounds, 
countries and experiences can bring 
The joint venture with Woolworths 
in Australia involves our joint venture 
company managing Woolworths’ meat 
processing and packing facilities at 
Bunbury in Western Australia, Brisbane 
in Queensland and, from September 
2015, a new state of the art meat packing 
facility near Melbourne, Victoria.
With the signing of a joint venture 
agreement in early 2017, our joint 
venture company now manages Sonae’s 
meat processing and packing facility 
in Portugal.
In 2016 some 74% of the Group’s 
volumes were produced and sold in 
countries outside the UK.
Currency translation
The wide geographical spread of 
the Group increases its resilience 
by minimising its reliance on any 
one individual economy. This means 
that Hilton’s results, as reported in 
Sterling, are sensitive to changes in 
the value of Sterling compared to 
the range of overseas currencies in 
which the Group trades. During 2016, 
the average exchange rates for the 
various overseas currencies in which 
13
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Chief Executive’s summary continued
Central costs and other
Net operating cost £3.7m (2015: £5.4m)
This segment includes our share of the 
management fee earned by our joint 
venture with Woolworths of £3.1m 
(2015: £1.2m), start-up and support costs 
in connection with the joint venture of 
£0.6m (2015: £1.2m) and central costs of 
£6.2m (2015: £5.4m).
In Australia the Group has a joint venture 
with Woolworths, under which it earns 
a 50% share of the agreed management 
fees charged by the joint venture 
company to Woolworths for operating 
certain Woolworths’ meat processing 
and packing plants, based on the volume 
of retail packed meat delivered to 
Woolworths’ stores. The joint venture 
company is responsible for the operation 
of Woolworths’ Western Australian 
meat processing centre in Bunbury, its 
Queensland meat processing centre 
in Brisbane and the new purpose built 
retail packing facility near Melbourne 
in Victoria which started production in 
September 2015.
Volumes in Australia grew by 134% in the 
year as the Melbourne facility ramped up 
production towards its normal operating 
capacity. In addition start-up costs 
reduced as expected. Central costs were 
higher as we increased our resources 
to manage our growth successfully and 
additionally the share scheme charge 
increased attributable to surpassing 
threshold performance.
Performance overview
The overall performance of our business 
was strong across its three separate 
operating segments as outlined below.
Western Europe
Operating profit of £35.9m 
(2015: £32.1m) on turnover  
of £1,147.5m (2015: £1,020.7m)
This operating segment covers the 
Group’s businesses in the UK, Ireland, 
Holland, Sweden and Denmark. On a 
comparable 52 week basis volumes were 
3.8% higher than last year, principally 
reflecting good volume growth in the 
UK and encouraging growth in our Irish 
business. The range of products supplied 
was extended during the year to include 
fresh pizzas and meal boxes from our 
Swedish facility.
Sales on a like-for-like 52 week constant 
currency basis grew by 7.0% reflecting 
the higher volumes and boosted by the 
launch of Hilton Food Solutions, our new 
meat trading business which is a logical 
development given Hilton’s procurement 
strengths and extensive global contacts 
in the meat trade.
Central Europe
Operating profit of £2.1m (2015: £2.3m) 
on turnover of £87.0m (2015: £74.1m)
In Central Europe the Group’s meat 
packing business, based at Tychy in 
Poland, supplies customers across 
Central Europe, from Hungary to the 
Baltics. This multi-customer business 
supplies Ahold stores in Czech Republic 
and Slovakia, Tesco stores in Hungary, 
Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia 
and Rimi stores in Latvia, Lithuania 
and Estonia. Volumes decreased by 
4.5% due to competitive headwinds. 
Conversely sales grew by 8.8% at 
constant currency driven by increased 
raw material prices and a mix shift into 
beef. Range was extended to include 
fresh pizzas and sous vide products.
14
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
The medium term outlook for Hilton is 
positive with the commencement of the 
Portugal joint venture company and the 
planning phase for the new Queensland 
factory in Australia under way. With these 
new projects and continued focus 
on product development and range 
extension Hilton is confident of making 
further progress.
Robert Watson OBE
Chief Executive
29 March 2017
Within the wider retail market consumer 
patterns are continuing to change with 
increased internet based ordering and 
a growth in the number of “click and 
collect” facilities. Following pressures 
on consumer expenditure over a number 
of years, there has been increased 
use by cost conscious consumers of 
local convenience stores and discount 
outlets to shop more frequently for a 
reduced overall basket cost per visit 
and at a wider range of retail outlets. 
These developments which appear to be 
structural rather than cyclical reinforce 
the overall trend towards retail packed 
meat, as this is the meat offering in all 
these growth areas. 
Outlook and current trading
Hilton’s operating performance in the 
early months of 2017 has been in line 
with the Board’s expectations. The Group 
will continue to explore opportunities for 
geographical expansion in both domestic 
and overseas markets and is well 
placed to capture those opportunities as 
they arise.
Past and future trends
Over recent decades as major retail 
chains have progressively gained a 
greater share of the grocery markets in 
most countries, they have increasingly 
turned to large scale, centralised meat 
packing solutions capable of producing 
private label packed meat products more 
safely and cost effectively. In doing 
so, they have rationalised their supply 
base, achieving lower costs with higher 
food safety, food integrity, traceability 
and quality standards. This has allowed 
supermarket groups to focus on their 
core business and maximise their return 
on available retail space whilst addressing 
consumers’ continuing requirement for 
quality and value.
Grocery retail markets are expected 
to remain extremely competitive, with 
continuing pressure on consumer 
expenditure. The trend towards increased 
use of centralised meat packing solutions 
is likely to continue albeit at different 
speeds across the world. This gives 
rise to a wide range of potential future 
geographical expansion opportunities 
for Hilton, but inevitably in a range of 
different timescales as markets develop 
and change over time.
15
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Group performance
Hilton’s financial performance was strong 
in 2016 boosted by favourable currency 
movements. Growth in operating profit 
was 18.4% and basic earnings per share 
22.5% and 11.7% and 15.4% ahead on a 
comparable 52 week constant currency 
basis respectively. Continued strong cash 
flow generation significantly increased our 
net cash position. This performance and 
financial review covers the main highlights 
of the Group’s financial performance and 
position in 2016. 
Basis of preparation
The Group is presenting its results for the 
52 week period ended 1 January 2017, 
with comparative information for the 
53 week period ended 3 January 2016. 
The financial statements of the Group are 
prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU).
2016 Financial performance
Revenue
Volumes grew by 7.4% in the year and 
by 8.9% on a like-for-like 52 week basis. 
Underlying volume increases were seen 
in the UK, Ireland, Holland, and Australia 
with lower volumes in Denmark and 
Central Europe. Additional details of 
volume growth by business segment are 
set out in the Chief Executive’s summary. 
Revenue increased 12.8% and by 7.2% on 
a like-for-like 52 week constant currency 
basis attributable to the higher volumes 
and the new meat trading business.
Performance and financial review
Nigel Majewski
Chief Financial Officer
16
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
A strong ungeared balance sheet 
with financial capacity for 
further expansion. 
Operating profit and margin
Operating profit, at £34.3m was 
18.4% above the previous year’s level 
(2015: £29.0m) and 11.7% higher on a 
like-for-like 52 week constant currency 
basis. The operating profit margin in 
2016 improved to 2.8% (2015: 2.6%), 
primarily reflecting higher Australia 
volumes and the operating profit per 
kilogram of packed meat sold was 12.5p 
(2015: 11.3p).
Net finance costs
Net finance costs of £1.1m matched the 
previous year’s level (2015: £1.1m) with 
interest rates remaining at historically 
low levels, reflecting continuing low 
LIBOR and other interbank rates, 
which determine the interest rates 
on the Group’s principal borrowings. 
Interest cover in 2016 remained high 
increasing to 31 times (2015: 28 times).
Taxation
The taxation charge for the period was 
£6.6m (2015: £6.5m). This represented 
an effective taxation rate of 19.7% 
(2015: 23.2%). The reduction in the 
effective tax rate is attributable to 
lower corporation tax rates in some 
countries and also due to higher joint 
venture income which is reported within 
operating profit on a post-tax basis under 
the equity method.
Net income
Net income, representing profit for 
the year attributable to owners of the 
parent, at £24.6m (2015: £20.0m) was 
23.1% higher than last year reflecting the 
increase in operating profit and 16.1% 
higher on a like-for-like 52 week constant 
currency basis.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share at 33.7p 
(2015: 27.5p) were 22.5% higher than 
last year (15.4% on a like-for-like 52 week 
constant currency basis). Diluted earnings 
per share were 33.2p (2015: 27.2p).
Earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation
EBITDA, which is used by the Group as 
an indicator of cash generation, increased 
by 11.4% to £54.0m (2015: £48.4m) 
mainly reflecting the increase in 
operating profit.
Free cash flow 
Cash flow remained strong in 2016, 
with the Group generating free 
cash of £26.7m before dividends 
and financing (2015: £31.7m), after 
incurring capital expenditure of £16.4m. 
Group borrowings were £27.0m at the 
end of 2016 and, with net cash balances 
of £59.3m, this resulted in a closing net 
cash position of £32.3m, as compared 
with a net cash level of £12.7m at the end 
of 2015. At the end of 2016 the Group 
had undrawn overdraft and loan facilities 
of £99.2m (2015: £28.3m). 
A strong ungeared balance sheet gives 
the Group considerable flexibility for 
potential future expansion. Given our 
propensity to generate free cash flow, 
we also consider that we are likely 
to have financial capacity for further 
expansion taking account of the recently 
announced expansion plans in Portugal 
and Queensland, Australia.
Dividends
The Board aims to maintain a dividend 
policy that provides a dividend level 
that grows broadly in line with the 
underlying earnings of the Group and 
has recommended a final dividend of 
12.5p per ordinary share in respect of 
2016. This, together with the interim 
dividend of 4.6p per ordinary share 
paid in December 2016, represents a 
17.1% increase in the full year dividend, 
as compared with last year. The final 
dividend, if approved by shareholders, 
will be paid on 30 June 2017 to 
shareholders on the register on 2 June 
2017 and the shares will be ex dividend 
on 1 June 2017.
£34.3m
Operating profit
£32.3m
Net cash
17
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Performance and financial review continued
Key performance 
indicators
How we measure our performance 
against our strategic objectives
The Board monitors a range of financial 
and non-financial key performance 
indicators (KPIs) to measure the Group’s 
performance over time in building 
shareholder value and achieving the 
Group’s strategic priorities. The nine  
headline KPI metrics used by the 
Board for this purpose, together with 
our performance over the past two years, 
is set out opposite:
18
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report 19
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Non-financial KPIs Financial KPIs
7.4
%
Growth in volume of  
packed meat sales (%) 
2015: 5.5% 
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Year on year volume growth, expressed 
as a percentage. Volume growth was seen 
principally in the UK, Ireland and Australia.
12.8%
Revenue growth (%) 
2015: (0.4%) 
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Year on year revenue growth expressed as 
a percentage. The 2016 increase reflected 
volume growth, mix shift and favourable 
exchange translation rate movements.
54.0
Earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation 
(EBITDA) (£m) 
2015: 48.4 
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Operating profit before depreciation and 
amortisation. The increase reflected higher 
underlying operating profits, together with 
higher depreciation charges.
38.2
Employee and labour agency costs 
(pence per kg) 
2015: 36.2
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
The increase reflects exchange translation 
rate movements.
2.8%
Operating profit margin (%) 
2015: 2.6%
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Operating profit expressed as a percentage 
of turnover. The increase in 2016 primarily 
reflected higher Australia volumes.
26.7
Free cash flow (£m) 
2015: 31.7
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Cash inflow before minorities, dividends 
and financing. Free cash flow continued 
to be strong but was lower than last year 
due to adverse working capital movements 
and higher tax payments.
98.6%
Customer service level (%) 
2015: 99.2%
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Packs of meat delivered as a % of the orders 
placed. Little year on year change, with high 
service levels being maintained throughout 
the year.
12.5
Operating profit margin  
(pence per kg) 
2015: 11.3
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Operating profit per kilogram sold in 
pence. The increase in 2016 primarily 
relates to favourable exchange translation 
rate movements.
n/a
Gearing ratio (%) 
2015: n/a
Definition, method of calculation 
and analysis
Year end net debt as a percentage of EBITDA. 
The Group was ungeared at the end of 2015 
and 2016 being in a net cash position. The Group has to date decided not to 
hedge its foreign exchange rate exposures, 
but this policy is kept under continuing 
review and may be reappraised over 
time as the Group’s geographic spread 
continues to widen. The Group’s overseas 
subsidiaries all have natural hedges in 
place as they, for the most part, buy raw 
materials, employ people, source services, 
sell products and arrange funding in their 
local currencies. As a result the Group’s 
exposure is in the main limited to its equity 
investment in each overseas subsidiary 
and its joint venture, and in the translation 
of overseas earnings.
The level of country specific risk currently 
remains material for many businesses, in 
terms of the impact of macroeconomic 
developments, including the impact of 
austerity programmes and commodity 
price movements in some countries. 
The Group sells high quality basic food 
products, for which there will always 
be continuing demand, to successful 
blue chip multiple retailers in developed 
countries. Hilton has not to date been 
materially adversely affected by the 
lengthy recessionary environments seen 
in some countries, but will keep any future 
identified country specific risks under 
continuing review.
Interest rate fluctuation risk
This risk stems from the fact that the 
interest rates on the Group’s borrowings 
are variable, being at set margins over 
LIBOR and other interbank rates which 
fluctuate over time. The Board’s policy is 
to have an interest rate cap on a proportion 
of this borrowing. The Board will review 
hedging costs and options should the 
current low interest rate environment 
change materially.
In addition, a much wider range 
of financial and operating KPIs are 
continuously tracked at business 
unit level.
Treasury management
Hilton does not engage in any speculative 
trading in financial instruments and 
transacts only in relation to its underlying 
business requirements. The Group’s 
policy is designed to ensure adequate 
financial resources are made available as 
required for the continuing development 
and growth of its businesses, whilst 
taking practical steps to reduce 
exposures to foreign exchange, interest 
rate fluctuation, credit, pricing and 
liquidity risks, as described below.
Foreign exchange rate movements 
and country specific risks
Whilst the presentational currency of the 
Group is Sterling, most of its earnings 
are generated in other currencies, 
principally the Euro, Swedish Krona, 
Danish Krone and Australian Dollar. 
The earnings of the Group’s overseas 
subsidiaries are translated into Sterling 
at the average exchange rates for the 
year and their assets and liabilities at 
the year end closing rates. Changes in 
relevant currency parities are monitored 
on a continuing basis, with the timing of 
the repatriation of overseas profits by 
dividend payments and the repayment 
of any intra-group loans to UK holding 
companies paying due regard to actual 
and forecast exchange rate movements. 
Performance and financial review continued
20
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Customer credit and pricing risks
As Hilton’s customers comprise a small 
number of successful and creditworthy 
major multiple retailers, the level of credit 
risk is considered to be insignificant. 
Historically the incidence of bad debts 
has been immaterial. Hilton’s pricing is 
based predominantly either on cost plus 
agreements or agreed packing rates with 
its customers.
Liquidity risk
This has for many businesses represented 
an area of concern over recent years, 
given the continuing difficult and uncertain 
economic environment in some countries. 
Hilton Food Group remains strongly cash 
generative, has a robust balance sheet 
and has committed banking facilities for 
the medium term, sufficient to support 
its existing business. All bank positions 
are monitored on a daily basis and capital 
expenditure above set levels, together with 
decisions on intra-group dividends, are all 
approved at Board meetings. All long term 
debt is arranged centrally and is subject to 
Board approval.
Going concern statement
The Directors have performed a detailed 
assessment, including a review of the 
Group’s budget for the 2017 financial 
year and its longer term plans, including 
consideration of the principal risks faced 
by the Group. Following this review, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue to operate and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due for the foreseeable 
future, a period considered to be at least 
12 months from the date of signing these 
financial statements. For this reason they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
for preparing the financial statements. 
The Group’s bank borrowings are detailed 
in the financial statements and the 
principal banking facilities, which support 
the Group’s existing and contracted new 
business, are committed. The Group 
is in full compliance with all its banking 
covenants. Future geographical expansion 
which is not yet contracted, and which 
is not built into our internal budgets 
and forecasts, may require additional or 
extended banking facilities and such future 
geographical expansion will depend on our 
ability to negotiate appropriate additional 
or extended facilities, as and when they 
are required.
The Group’s internal budgets and 
forward forecasts, which incorporate all 
reasonably foreseeable changes in trading 
performance, are regularly reviewed in 
detail by the Board and show that it will be 
able to operate within its current banking 
facilities, taking into account available cash 
balances, for the foreseeable future. 
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors confirm 
that they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will continue to operate 
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for 
the three years ending in December 2019. 
A period of three years has been chosen 
for the purpose of this viability statement 
as it is aligned with the Group’s three year 
plan, which is based on the Group’s current 
customers and does not incorporate the 
benefits from any potential new contract 
gains over this period.
The Directors’ assessment has been made 
with reference to the Group’s current 
position and strategy taking into account 
the Group’s principal risks and how these 
are managed. The strategy and associated 
principal risks, which the Directors review 
at least annually, are incorporated in the 
three year plan and such related scenario 
testing as is required. The three year plan 
makes reasoned assumptions in relation 
to volume growth based on the position 
of our customers and expected changes 
in the macroeconomic environment and 
retail market conditions, expected changes 
in raw material meat, packaging and other 
costs, together with the anticipated level 
of capital investment required to maintain 
our facilities at state of the art levels. 
The achievement of the three year plan is 
not dependent on any new or expanded 
financing facilities. 
Forward looking statements
This Strategic report contains forward 
looking statements that are inevitably 
subject to risk factors associated with, 
amongst other things, economic, political 
and business developments which 
may occur from time to time across the 
countries in which the Group operates. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected in 
these statements are reasonable based on 
current knowledge, but all forward looking 
statements and forecasts are inherently 
predictive, speculative and involve risk and 
uncertainty, simply because they relate to 
events and depend on circumstances that 
will occur in the future.
Nigel Majewski
Chief Financial Officer
29 March 2017
21
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Not all the risks listed are within the 
Group’s control and others may be 
unknown or currently considered 
immaterial, but could turn out to be 
material in the future. These risks, together 
with our risk mitigation strategies, should 
be considered in the context of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control 
framework, details of which are set out 
in the Corporate governance statement. 
It must be recognised that systems of 
internal control are designed to manage 
rather than completely eliminate any 
identified risks.
The most significant risks  
the Group faces
The eight most significant business risks 
that the Group faces, have changed little, 
as might be expected with an unchanged 
and relatively straightforward business 
model. These risks, which will continue 
to affect the Group’s businesses, together 
with the measures we have adopted 
to mitigate these risks, are outlined in 
the table on pages 23 to 25. This is not 
intended to constitute an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks faced by the Group, 
but rather to highlight those which are 
the most significant, as viewed from the 
standpoint of the Group as a whole.
Risk management and principal risks
Risks and risk 
management
In accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code the Directors confirm 
that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those which could 
threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. As a 
leading food processor in a fast moving 
environment it is critical that the Group 
identifies, assesses and prioritises its 
risks. This, together with the adoption of 
appropriate mitigation actions, enables 
us to monitor, minimise and control both 
the probability and potential impact of 
these risks.
How we manage risk
Responsibility for risk management 
across the Group, including the 
appropriate identification of risks and 
the effective application of actions 
designed to mitigate those risks, resides 
with the Board which believes that a 
successful risk management framework 
carefully balances risk and reward, 
and applies reasoned judgement and 
consideration of potential likelihood and 
impact in determining its principal risks. 
The Group takes a proactive approach to 
risk management with well-developed 
structures and a range of processes for 
identifying, assessing, prioritising and 
mitigating its key risks, as the delivery 
of our strategy depends on our ability to 
make sound risk informed decisions. 
Risk management process  
and risk appetite
All types of risk applicable to the 
business are regularly reviewed and a 
formal risk assessment is carried out to 
highlight key risks to the business and to 
determine actions that can reasonably 
and cost effectively be taken to mitigate 
them. The Group’s Risk Register is 
compiled through a combination of 
business unit risk registers and Board 
input. The Board believes that in carrying 
out the Group’s businesses it is vital 
to strike the right balance between an 
appropriate and comprehensive control 
environment and encouraging the level 
of entrepreneurial freedom of action 
required to seek out and develop new 
business opportunities; but, however 
skilfully this balance between risk and 
reward is struck, the business will 
always be subject to a number of risks 
and uncertainties.
22
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Description of risk
The Group is dependent on a small 
number of customers who can exercise 
significant buying power and influence 
when it comes to contractual renewal 
terms at 5 to 10 year intervals.
Its potential impact 
The Group has a relatively narrow, but 
expanding, customer base, with sales to 
subsidiary or associated companies of the 
Tesco and Ahold groups still comprising 
the larger part of Hilton’s revenue. 
The larger retail chains have over many 
years increased their market share of meat 
products in many countries, as customers 
continue to move away from high street 
butchers towards one stop convenience 
shopping in supermarkets. This has 
increased the buying power of the Group’s 
customers which in turn increases their 
negotiating power with the Group, which 
could enable them to seek better terms 
over time.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group is progressively widening 
its customer base and its maintained 
high level of investment in state of 
the art facilities, which together with 
management’s continuous focus on 
reducing costs, allow it to operate very 
efficiently at very high throughputs 
and price its products competitively. 
Hilton operates a decentralised, 
entrepreneurial business structure, which 
enables it to work very closely and flexibly 
with its retail partners in each country, 
in order to achieve high service levels in 
terms of orders delivered, delivery times, 
compliance with product specifications 
and accuracy of documentation, all backed 
by an uncompromising focus on food 
safety, product integrity and traceability 
assurance. Hilton has long term supply 
agreements in place with its major 
customers, with pricing either on a cost 
plus or agreed packing rate basis.
Description of risk
The Group’s growth potential is 
dependent on the success of its 
customers and the growth of their 
packed meat sales.
Its potential impact 
The Group’s products carry the brand 
labels of the customer to whom packed 
meat is supplied and it is accordingly 
dependent on its customers’ success 
in maintaining or improving consumer 
perception of their own brand names and 
packed meat offerings.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group plays a very proactive role 
in enhancing its customers’ proactive 
brand values, through providing high 
quality, competitively priced products, 
high service levels, continuing product 
and packaging innovation and category 
management support. It recognises 
that quality and traceability assurance 
are integral to its customers’ brands and 
works closely with its customers to ensure 
rigorous quality assurance standards 
are met. It is continuously measured by 
its customers across a very wide range 
of parameters, including delivery time, 
product specification, product traceability 
and accuracy of documentation and targets 
demanding service levels across all these 
parameters. The Group works closely 
with its customers to identify continuing 
improvement opportunities across the 
supply chain, including enhancing product 
presentation, extending shelf life and 
reducing wastage at every stage in the 
supply chain.
Description of risk
The progress of the Group’s business is 
dependent on the macroeconomic 
environment and levels of consumer 
spending in the countries in which it 
operates.
Its potential impact 
No business is immune to difficult 
economic climates and the consequent 
pressure on levels of consumer spending, 
such as those seen over recent years 
across Europe.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
With a sound business model, strong 
retail partners and a single minded 
focus on minimising unit packing costs, 
whilst maintaining high levels of product 
quality and integrity, the Group has made 
continued progress over recent difficult 
economic periods. It expects to be able 
to continue to make progress, even if the 
current pressures on consumer spending, 
as expected, persist in some countries.
23
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Description of risk
The Group’s business is dependent on 
maintaining a wide and flexible global 
meat supply base operating at 
standards that can continuously 
achieve the specifications set by Hilton 
and its customers.
Its potential impact 
The Group is reliant on its suppliers to 
provide sufficient volume of products, to 
the agreed specifications, in the very short 
lead times required by its customers, with 
efficient supply chain management being a 
key business attribute. The Group sources 
certain of its meat requirements globally. 
Tariffs, quotas or trade barriers imposed by 
countries where the Group procures meat, 
or which they may impose in the future, 
together with the progress of World Trade 
Organisation talks and other global trade 
developments, could materially affect the 
Group’s international procurement ability 
but has not done so in recent years.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group maintains a flexible global 
meat supply base, which is progressively 
widening as it expands and is continuously 
audited to ensure standards are 
maintained, so as to have in place a 
wide range of options should supply 
disruptions occur.
Description of risk
The Group’s business is reliant on a 
small number of key personnel and 
its ability to manage growth and 
change successfully.
Its potential impact 
The Group is critically dependent on the 
skills and experience of a small number 
of senior managers and specialists and as 
the business develops and expands, the 
Group’s success will inevitably depend 
on its ability to attract and retain the 
necessary calibre of personnel for key 
positions, both for managing and growing 
its existing businesses and setting up 
new ones.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
To continue to manage growth 
successfully, the Group carefully 
manages its skilled resources including 
succession planning and maintaining 
a talent pipeline. Hilton continues to 
invest in on-the-job training and career 
development, together with the cost 
effective management of quality 
information and control systems, whilst 
recruiting high quality new employees, as 
required, to facilitate the Group’s ongoing 
growth. The continuing growth of Hilton’s 
business, together with its growing 
reputation, is facilitating the recruitment 
of more top class specialists with the 
key skill sets required both to support 
our existing individual country business 
units and manage the Group’s future 
geographical expansion.
Risk management and principal risks continued
24
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Description of risk
Outbreaks of disease and feed 
contamination affecting livestock and 
media concerns relating to these and 
instances of product adulteration can 
impact the Group’s sales.
Its potential impact 
Reports in the public domain concerning 
the risks of consuming meat can cause 
consumer demand for meat to drop 
significantly in the short to medium 
term. A food scare similar to the bovine 
spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”) scare 
that took place in 1996 or the much more 
recent concerns with regard to meat 
substitution can affect public confidence in 
red meats.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group sources its meat from a trusted 
raw material supply base, all components 
of which meet stringent national, 
international and customer standards. 
The Group is subject to demanding 
standards which are independently 
monitored in every country and reliable 
product traceability and high welfare 
standards from the farm to the consumer 
are integral to the Group’s business 
model. The Group ensures full traceability 
from source to packed product across 
all suppliers.
Description of risk
Significant incidents such as fire, flood 
or interruption of supply of key 
utilities could impact the Group’s 
business continuity.
Its potential impact 
Such incidents could result in systems 
or manufacturing process stoppages 
with consequent disruption and loss 
of efficiency which could impact the 
Group’s sales.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group has robust business continuity 
plans in place including sister site support 
protocols enabling other sites to step 
in with manufacturing and distribution 
of key product lines where necessary. 
Continuity management systems and plans 
are suitably maintained and adequately 
tested including building risk assessments 
and emergency power solutions. There are 
appropriate insurance arrangements in 
place to mitigate against any associated 
financial loss.
Description of risk
The Group’s IT systems could be 
subject to cyber attacks including 
fraudulent external email activity. 
These kinds of attacks are generally 
increasing in frequency and 
sophistication.
Its potential impact 
The Group’s operations are underpinned by 
a variety of IT systems. Loss or disruption 
to those IT systems could impact the 
Group’s ability to effectively operate its 
facilities and on its sales and reputation.
Risk mitigation measures  
and strategies adopted
The Group has a robust IT control 
framework which is tested frequently by 
internal staff and by specialist external 
bodies. There is internal training and 
resources available with emphasis on 
prevention, user awareness and recovery. 
Financial controls mitigate the risk of 
fraudulent payments being processed.
25
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Hilton Food Group recognises its social, 
ethical and environmental responsibilities 
arising from its operations and to the 
welfare of employees, customers, 
suppliers and the communities in which 
we operate. The Group is committed 
to working in an ethical, open and 
honest manner to produce products 
of the highest quality responsibly and 
sustainably. The philosophies which 
underpin our policies for the environment, 
regulatory compliance, health and safety, 
product quality and integrity and ethical 
conduct are summarised below.
Complete food assurance  
from farm to fork
It is essential that consumers have 
complete confidence in the meat 
products they purchase. It is necessary 
that all parties in the meat supply chain 
including farms, abattoirs, supermarket 
retailers as well as Hilton work together 
collaboratively to ensure high welfare 
standards for animals from breeding, 
rearing, transportation and slaughter. 
This teamwork including oversight of 
farm and abattoir standards ensures that 
the meat products we produce are of 
the highest quality. We recognise that 
correct product label information is key to 
gaining consumer trust and that the label 
correctly describes the provenance of the 
meat including its species and country 
of origin.
Hilton strives, in partnership with our 
retail customers, to successfully deliver 
safe, consistently high quality, convenient 
and ready to use retail packs of beef, 
lamb, pork and added value meat 
products to ensure the highest level of 
consumer satisfaction. Our products 
are governed by EU legislation and food 
safety standards throughout the meat 
supply chain. Additionally our retail 
partners, who support the Global Food 
Safety Initiative, demand the best animal 
welfare standards, food factory standards 
and quality systems to enhance their 
levels of brand integrity.
Hilton develops long term trading 
partnerships with our suppliers by 
facilitating achievement of our retail 
customer requirements through auditing 
by third party experts and development of 
sustainable corrective action plans where 
any non-conformances are identified. 
We support our suppliers in applying 
abattoir standards covering factory 
structure, animal welfare standards, control 
of contamination through cleaning and 
disinfection, temperature controls, carcass 
dressing, boning and packing standards 
and traceability. Auditing as a means of 
challenging standards is now expected by 
consumers together with well established 
procedures throughout the food chain.
Hilton continually develops and refines 
testing methods, data collection and 
reporting particularly in the key area 
of fresh meat. Samples collected 
from each delivery are assessed for 
compliance to microbiological standards 
and compliance to agreed quality 
specifications including increasing use of 
DNA testing. Results are used to assess 
the performance of suppliers and achieve 
continuous improvement.
Retail packing at Hilton
The key factors in ensuring that our retail 
partners receive products that consistently 
achieve agreed shelf lives and meet 
customer expectations are top quality 
meat from our suppliers, temperature 
control and high class standards of 
hygiene. We are proud of our modern 
specialised meat processing and packing 
facilities which use state of the art 
production equipment, including a high 
degree of automation and use of robotic 
equipment which minimises handling. 
A short and transparent supply 
chain with full traceability
Hilton is committed to ensuring that 
the supply chain in which we play a 
significant part is as short as possible. 
Farm reared animals are slaughtered 
at abattoirs from whom Hilton sources 
its meats and our food products are 
delivered directly to our retail customers 
for sale in their stores. Our quality 
systems provide full traceability of all the 
meat that we use.
Flexible local and  
global meat sourcing
As specialist retail meat packers, Hilton 
can source its primal meat requirements 
from the most advanced abattoir plants 
to exacting specifications, ensuring 
quality and cost effectiveness. Most of 
our meat is sourced locally within the EU 
and also from other regions such as New 
Zealand and South America. 
Science and technology play a large 
part in the consistent achievement 
of meat quality and influence Hilton’s 
procurement of meat from large and 
small suppliers. Together with our retail 
partners we ensure that consumers have 
the best choice and can select on the 
basis of provenance, quality and price. 
Abattoir standards
Abattoir standards contribute significantly 
to the achievement of consistent 
meat quality and Hilton works closely 
with our retail partners to set best in 
class specifications ensuring humane 
and effective stunning and control of 
microbial contamination. Also pH and 
temperature drop is controlled according 
to best scientific practice. Meat is 
matured and boned according to clear 
and enforced primal specifications that 
are agreed between Hilton, its retail 
customers and abattoir suppliers. 
Corporate and social responsibility report
Taking care of our stakeholders and the environment
26
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
There is nothing like good food to bring 
people together. So it is in our culinary 
innovation centres that we discuss and 
share concepts with our customers. 
Cooking, tasting and then making those 
all-important final tweaks to create the 
perfect concept. Our skilled chefs and 
technologists then set to work on the 
scale-up process taking the concepts 
from the kitchen pan to industrial products 
that can be consistently produced, on an 
industrial scale, maintaining organoleptic 
quality, product integrity and operational 
efficiency throughout the supply chain to 
meet all of our customers’ expectations. 
With these facilities we deliver exciting, 
innovative and delicious product range 
extensions, seasonal product ranges and 
market leading innovative new products.
We also recognise that, in the culinary 
sense, the world is getting smaller. 
Through increased travel, celebrity chefs, 
the internet, etc. the everyday consumers 
have an insatiable appetite for novel, 
out-of-the-box culinary experiences. 
Whether they are from traditional local 
cuisine or exotic fusions of flavour where 
the dynamic European cuisine meets the 
spicy, exotic and mouth-watering cuisines 
of Asia. Rather than develop and maintain 
this very specific flavour expertise in-
house we are establishing partnerships 
with key suppliers whose core capability is 
the development of innovative ingredients. 
By working closely in partnership with our 
suppliers we can combine our extensive 
and in-depth understanding of food 
production on an industrial scale with their 
expertise to develop a delicious portfolio 
of innovative products designed to match 
consumer expectations.
Graduate recruitment is fundamental to 
Hilton’s future. Our training programme 
includes completion of a Masters Degree 
in Food Science following which our 
trained graduates are placed into key 
management roles. We maintain strong 
links with academia and technological 
advances including Campden BRI, Danish 
Meat Research Institute, British Meat 
Processors Association and Teagasc 
Ireland and through attendance at the 
annual International Conference of Meat 
Science and Technology.
Partnerships for growth
We forge partnerships across all aspects 
of our supply chain to enable us to 
strengthen our position as one of the 
leading global Business to Business food 
companies. Our core competency has 
always been building strong and productive 
partnerships with our retail customers in 
each geographical zone we are active in 
to supply high quality products at the right 
price to meet their demands. However, in 
an ever-changing business environment, 
the requirements of a true partnership go 
beyond the supply and demand approach. 
Our focus is to provide a unique, unrivalled 
service to our customers to support their 
market growth aspirations. We work 
closely with each of our customers to 
identify, both global and local, market 
trends which will help us create the next 
generation of products that will meet 
the everyday needs of their consumers. 
We have recently established two 
culinary innovation centres fully equipped 
with state of the art culinary equipment 
and staffed by some of the leading 
industry chefs and food technologists. 
The ambience of our culinary innovation 
centres has been designed to create an 
open and stimulating environment in which 
creativity can flourish.
Our well trained production operatives are 
responsible for the quality of Hilton’s retail 
partners’ products and they are supported 
by highly qualified and experienced quality 
assurance and technical teams at each 
site. Hilton maintains annual third party 
accreditation through FSSC (Food Safety 
System Certification) using ISO 22000 and 
ISO/TS 22002-1 or the latest BRC (British 
Retail Consortium) Global Standard for 
Food Safety and we constantly challenge 
ourselves through cross auditing of 
hygiene and quality system standards 
by technical and quality managers from 
other Hilton sites and additionally our retail 
customer make frequent visits to our sites, 
some of which are unannounced. This level 
of attention is a valuable part of our 
partnership with our retail customers and 
gives consumers confidence that Hilton 
can consistently meet their expectations.
Temperature control throughout our 
storage and production departments is 
fundamental to the quality of our products 
and this is centrally controlled with 
alarm alerts if there is any deviation from 
specified temperature requirements.
Specialised highly trained hygiene teams 
deep clean our factories every day using 
the latest technology and these clearly 
specified procedures are verified using 
not only trained auditors but also the latest 
monitoring equipment. All staff and visitors 
can only enter Hilton production facilities 
wearing specified personal protective 
clothing and by passing through barrier 
protected hand washing and sanitising 
facilities. The effectiveness of these 
entrance procedures is routinely verified 
using hand swabbing checks.
Corporate and social responsibility report
Taking care of our stakeholders and the environment
27
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Corporate and social responsibility report continued
Taking care of our stakeholders and the environment
In parallel to our ingredient partnerships 
we also realise the value of building 
stronger alliances with key suppliers of 
the processing equipment that is required 
to deliver the large volumes of products 
that leave our manufacturing sites every 
day. Technology is changing at an ever 
increasing rate across the food industry 
resulting in new and exciting equipment 
entering the market which can improve 
the efficiency of operations and deliver 
new and innovative products whilst 
continuing to enhance the stability and 
security of the products offered to the 
consumer. Rather than waiting for new 
technologies to arrive on the market we 
are working in close partnership with 
key equipment suppliers to develop 
equipment that specifically meets the 
needs of our operations. To facilitate this 
we are creating a number of product 
focused centres of excellence which are 
the custodians of our internal technology 
know-how where we focus development 
programmes carried out in conjunction 
with our key partners. As well as being 
technology custodians the centres of 
excellence are responsible for the rapid 
roll out of successful innovations and 
developments across our businesses 
to ensure we consistently deliver 
operational excellence at each of our 
manufacturing sites. 
Hilton is also closely aligned with our 
customers in our desire to minimise the 
environmental impact of our operations. 
We are therefore developing partnerships 
with our key suppliers of packaging 
materials as part of our sustainability 
agenda. On average over 1.25 million 
plastic trays leave our sites every day and 
we are conscious of the potential impact 
this may have on the environment. 
We are therefore working with our key 
suppliers in three work streams. 
Regulatory compliance
The Group is in full compliance with 
all environmental regulations, permits 
and consent limits which apply to each 
of its packing plants in each country of 
operation and views such compliance 
as a high priority, looking to make 
continuing improvements with respect 
to the environment in all its operations 
whilst ensuring that we manage our 
environmental performance in accordance 
with evolving legal and regulatory 
requirements and international standards.
Carbon footprint  
and greenhouse gases
The Group has complied with all the 
mandatory reporting requirements under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. 
The Group’s scope 1 and scope 2 carbon 
footprint has been calculated using data 
gathered through standardised reporting 
channels and Defra conversion factors. 
An appropriate ratio to express the Group’s 
annual emissions in relation to its activities 
by way of product volumes produced is 
given below. 
Tonnes of CO2e
2016 2015
Scope 1 4,069 4,100
Scope 2 21,195 21,392
Total 25,264 25,492
Tonnes of CO2e  
per tonne of product
2016 0.11
2015 0.11
2014 0.13
Firstly we are striving to maximise the 
use of recyclable trays across the Group 
and to date we have currently moved 
16% of our production to recyclable trays. 
The second work stream is focusing on 
the use of re-cycled plastic in our product 
trays which results in significantly 
lower energy consumption in their 
manufacture. Finally we are continuously 
setting the industry standard for lighter 
product trays which therefore require 
less plastic. These are jointly developed 
and tested with our key suppliers to 
ensure that although lighter they are still 
robust enough to maintain the required 
functionality and stability attributes.
Awards and innovation
Hilton takes great pride in its products 
and we are delighted when the quality 
and innovation of these products is 
recognised. During 2016 we received 
a number of national food and taste 
awards. New products launched included 
fresh pizzas, meal boxes and sous vide 
products as well as rebranding and 
repackaging a vegetarian range.
Environment
The Group takes all practicable steps 
to manage carefully its impact on the 
natural environment. Improvements to 
our environmental performance can 
make a difference to society and we are 
committed to assessing the impacts of 
our operations on land, water, air and 
biodiversity, and to managing our waste, 
in all its forms, by reusing or recycling it, 
where practicable.
In the context of the total carbon footprint 
of retail packed meat the proportion 
which can be influenced by Group’s 
packing activity is very small indeed as 
the Group is not involved in the breeding, 
growing and slaughtering of animals 
and the packaging formats used for its 
products are selected by our customers. 
The Group is nevertheless committed, 
working closely with its customers, to 
minimising its environmental impact.
28
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
The yield losses incurred in processing 
and packing meat and packaging wastage 
are monitored continuously throughout 
each day across the entire product range, 
at every Hilton site. Performance on meat 
yields, being the percentage by which 
the weight of meat purchased as raw 
material compares with that incorporated 
in finished packed meat products, is 
minimised by, where possible, using 
off-cuts in mince, burgers and other 
part processed meat products and by 
ensuring that meat purchased meets 
tight specifications.
Through the extensive use of state of 
the art packaging including skinpack 
technology our products benefit from 
an extended shelf life thereby reducing 
food waste. This benefit offsets the 
environmental impact of the packaging 
materials and energy used in its 
manufacture. Hilton is committed with 
its retail partners to adopt best practices 
in reducing packaging through use of 
lightweight and recyclable materials from 
sustainable sources.
Workplace
Health and safety
One of Hilton’s top priorities is to achieve 
continual improvements in health 
and safety. The Group requires all its 
subsidiaries to achieve high health and 
safety standards within their individual 
operations. All subsidiaries conduct 
regular formal health and safety reviews. 
Managers and employees review policies, 
processes and procedures in order to 
ensure that risks are properly assessed, 
with appropriate actions taken in order to 
protect the safety of employees. At Board 
level Philip Heffer, Chief Operating Officer, 
has been assigned responsibility for health 
and safety and environmental matters 
across the Group’s operational sites. 
We monitor and review all incidents and 
accidents in the workplace so that we can 
take appropriate action to improve working 
conditions whilst remaining focused on 
reducing both the absolute number of 
accidents and the number of serious 
accidents. Formal reporting procedures 
are in place at every site so that the Group 
can monitor safety performance at a local 
level. There is a full time safety officer at 
each site who monitors the key measures 
for safety performance which include 
the number of serious and non-serious 
accidents and the number of working days 
lost through injury, together with short and 
long term sickness levels, key statistics 
in relation to which for 2016 are shown 
as follows:
Average 
number of 
employees
Serious 
accidents
Recorded 
accidents 
per 
100,000 
hours 
worked
Sickness 
rate (%)
2016 2,948 40 5.2 3.6%
2015 2,912 36 5.2 3.5%
2014 2,447 33 5.2 4.5%
Our people
We recognise that driving our future 
growth and development will continue to 
depend on our ability to attract, grow, train 
and retain the very best managers and 
staff and to build progressively stronger 
teams at each location. We believe 
that a key to our future success lies 
in the promotion of properly trained, 
knowledgeable and capable management 
from within our organisation together with 
the ongoing motivation of our teams in 
each country.
Total 2,898 Total 49 Total 6 
Female Male
Directors
1
Senior managers
12
Employees
1,778
5
37
1,120
Energy usage
Our processing and packing operations 
consume electricity, gas, water and 
industrial gases at all our sites and our 
management teams work to identify areas 
for further efficiency gains in terms of 
energy usage. The Group invests heavily 
in maintaining state of the art high speed 
packing facilities which progressively 
reduce energy costs per unit packed. 
Over time the development of packing 
technology means that any given volume 
of meat can be packed with fewer high 
speed lines. Performance on water usage 
is shown below:
Cm
3 
of water use  
per tonne of product
2016 1 .65
2015 1 .55
2014 1 .46
Waste and packaging
It is estimated that 15 million tonnes of 
food is wasted each year in the UK of 
which 9 million tonnes is avoidable and 
we agree this is economically, socially 
and environmentally unacceptable. 
Although Hilton’s meat products are 
perishable having limited shelf life we 
continuously strive, working with our retail 
partners to ensure that waste is minimised 
and products are available for purchase and 
consumption for as long as possible before 
the end of their shelf life.
A degree of wastage is unavoidable in our 
businesses, as we have to ensure that 
our products continually meet stringent 
standards for quality and presentation. 
We work actively to reduce our usage of 
materials and the reduction of product and 
packaging waste has a very high priority 
across the Group. 
29
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Corporate and social responsibility report continued
Taking care of our stakeholders and the environment
Ethical standards
Hilton is committed to integrity. 
Ethical standards are very important 
in relation to the way we conduct our 
businesses and all the Group’s employees 
are expected to behave ethically in their 
work and adhere to the Group’s ethical 
standards. As an international group of 
companies we are fully aware of the 
broad spread of our responsibilities in 
all the countries in which we operate 
from protecting the environment to 
safeguarding the health and safety 
of our employees, respecting human 
rights, ensuring honesty, integrity and 
fairness in all our business dealings and 
operating our businesses in a safe and 
responsible manner.
A whistle-blowing policy is in place 
in accordance with which staff can in 
confidence raise any concerns about any 
actual or potential improprieties in relation 
to matters of financial reporting or any 
other aspect of the Group’s businesses. 
The Group has also implemented an 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy to 
comply with the Bribery Act 2010.
Community
Supporting our local communities
Hilton’s policy is to recruit locally based 
employees wherever possible in order 
to benefit the communities within which 
our plants are located. Hilton aims to 
play a positive role in all the communities 
in which it operates and we encourage 
employees to become involved with and 
support the local communities around our 
sites. We recognise the social impacts of 
our business and believe in consultation 
with local communities about our activities 
and about the safety and environmental 
impact of our operations. 
The Group has ethnically diverse 
workforces who at each location receive 
the same terms and conditions for 
comparable jobs. Given the geographical 
spread of the Group’s operations it is 
both inappropriate and impractical to 
apply standard employee consultation 
and communication procedures 
across the Group. Each subsidiary is 
accordingly responsible for achieving 
and maintaining appropriate consultation 
and communication with its employees 
which include at all production sites joint 
management and employee committee 
meetings on health and safety and 
meetings with employees and union 
representatives to discuss issues 
affecting them.
The Group, in common with most 
commercial undertakings, employs 
external consultants, but, as their 
services could be contracted for with 
other similar parties, there are, in the 
opinion of the Board, no persons with 
contractual or other arrangements 
with the Group which are essential to 
its businesses.
Trading relationships with 
partners and suppliers
Strong and fair long term relationships 
with partners and suppliers are very 
important for Hilton. The Group’s 
approach to corporate social responsibility 
is reflected in the way we behave with 
our suppliers which is open, consistent 
and honest. In the UK the Group follows 
the Better Payment Practice Code which 
requires a company to agree the terms of 
payment with its suppliers, to ensure its 
suppliers are aware of those terms and to 
abide by them. The Group policy is also 
to apply the requirements of the Code 
in each of its subsidiaries.
The Group provides equal opportunity 
for employment, training and career 
development and promotion regardless 
of age, sex, colour, race, religion, ethnic 
origin or other minority groupings. 
The Group encourages the employment 
of disabled people when suitable 
vacancies are available and wherever 
possible retrains employees who 
become disabled to enable them to 
do work consistent with their aptitudes 
and abilities. Where practicable a 
flexible approach is adopted to assist 
employees to manage a successful  
work/life balance.
Hilton operates to high standards of 
employment practice with policies to 
ensure that training, career development 
and promotion opportunities are available 
to all employees. The Group’s recruitment 
practices involve, where possible, 
internal promotions. Where there is not 
a suitable internal candidate, selection of 
suitable individuals for vacant positions 
is made using a combination of industry 
knowledge and contacts and the use of 
external recruitment agencies. All new 
senior employees including Directors are 
given tailored induction programmes. 
The Group’s succession planning is 
designed to highlight any forthcoming 
vacancies well in advance. Employees are 
able to participate directly in the success 
of the business by contributing to the 
Group’s Sharesave scheme.
30
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Pages 07 to 31 of this Annual report 
comprises a Strategic report which 
has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with applicable English 
company law, in particular Chapter 4A 
of the Companies Act 2006, and the 
liabilities of directors in connection 
with this report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided 
by such law.
It should be noted that the Strategic 
report has been prepared for the 
Group as a whole, and therefore gives 
greater emphasis to the Company 
and its subsidiaries when viewed 
as a composite whole.
Approved by order of the Board 
of Directors
Neil George
Company Secretary
29 March 2017 
Approval of Strategic report
During 2016, Hilton made charitable 
donations amounting to £67,000 
(2015: £35,000) comprising small but 
regular donations made to local institutions 
and sponsorship of personal charitable 
initiatives and to cultural and healthy 
lifestyle events. Additionally we donate 
surplus meat to food banks.
The Group seeks to be a good neighbour 
in all its locations. We are committed to 
social responsibility and believe that the 
success of our businesses will reflect the 
quality of the relationships we build with 
our communities and legitimate public 
interest groups.
31
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 32
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Board of Directors 34
Directors’ report 36
Corporate governance statement 38
Report of the Audit Committee 41
Report of the Nomination Committee 43
Report of the Risk Management Committee 44
Directors’ remuneration report 45
Directors’ remuneration policy 46
Annual report on remuneration 52
Statements of Directors’ responsibilities 58
Independent auditors’ report 59
Governance
33
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Board of Directors
Nigel Majewski
Chief Financial Officer
Nigel was appointed CFO of Hilton in 
2006 following 11 years in senior finance 
roles with PepsiCo. Prior to that Nigel 
gained extensive meat industry experience 
in senior finance roles with Bernard 
Matthews plc and has also worked 
for Royal Dutch Shell and Whitbread. 
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant 
and has a first class honours degree in 
accountancy. Nigel is Chairman of the 
Risk Management Committee.
Theo Bergman
Executive Director –  
resigned 22 April 2016
Theo joined Hilton in 2000 as Managing 
Director of the Group’s Dutch facility, 
Hilton Meats Zaandam and in 2003, he 
was appointed to the Group’s Executive 
Board as European operations director 
responsible for the start up of operations 
in Europe and the relationship with Ahold. 
His current role is to oversee various 
special projects. Prior to joining Hilton, 
Theo held senior logistics and general 
management positions with Ahold 
between 1987 and 2000. 
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 
Colin Smith OBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Colin joined the Hilton Food Group in 
2010 as a Non-Executive Director and 
has extensive experience in the food 
and distribution industry. A Chartered 
Accountant, he was at Safeway plc for 
20 years in senior finance roles including 
Finance Director and for the last six 
years as Chief Executive. Colin has held 
a number of board and advisory roles in 
the industry including the Chairmanship 
of Assured Food Standards and board 
advisor to Natures Way Foods. He was 
previously a Non-Executive Director of 
McBride plc and Chairman of Poundland 
Holdings Limited for 10 years until 2012 
and thereafter a Non-Executive Director 
for a further two years before retiring in 
2014. He is currently Chairman of the 
social enterprise The Challenge Network 
and a Non-Executive Director of LXi REIT 
plc. Colin was appointed Chairman of the 
Board on 25 May 2016 and is Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee.
Robert Watson OBE
Chief Executive
Robert joined Hilton as Chief Executive 
in 2002 and has overseen the successful 
growth of the Group to date. Prior to this, 
he worked for the Foyle Food Group, 
based in Northern Ireland of which he 
was a founder in 1977. Robert was 
previously a board member of the 
Livestock Meat Commission and Food 
For Britain.
Philip Heffer
Chief Operating Officer
Philip joined the Hilton Food Group at its 
inception in 1994, as Managing Director 
of the Group’s UK subsidiary Hilton 
Foods UK Limited. In his current role he 
is responsible for Hilton’s business with 
its major customers in the UK, Ireland, 
Continental Europe and Australia. Prior to 
this, Philip held senior positions within 
the RWM Food Group. He attended 
Smithfield College and became an 
associate member of the Institute of 
Meat in 1984.
34
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
John Worby
Non-Executive Director –  
appointed 22 March 2016
John Worby is a Chartered Accountant 
with a wealth of experience in public 
companies and the food sector. He was 
Group Finance Director at Genus plc 
retiring in 2013 and previously was Group 
Finance Director and Deputy Chairman 
of Uniq plc. John currently holds Non-
Executive Directorships at Fidessa Group 
plc and Carr’s Group plc and formerly was 
a Non-Executive Director at Cranswick 
plc and Connect Group plc. He is also 
a member of the Financial Reporting 
Review Panel. John is Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and is the Senior 
Independent Director.
Christine Cross
Non-Executive Director –  
appointed 22 March 2016
Christine Cross was originally a food 
scientist before devoting the 14 years to 
2003 with Tesco in senior roles focusing 
on own brand, non-food and global 
sourcing. She has since worked globally 
with a wide range of food and non-food 
retailing businesses and currently holds 
Non-Executive Directorships with Coca-
Cola European Partners plc, Sonae SGPS 
SA (Portugal), Brambles Limited (Australia), 
Kathmandu Holdings Limited (New 
Zealand) and several private companies 
as well as numerous advisory roles. 
Former Non-Executive Director positions 
were held until recently with Next plc and 
Woolworths Limited (Australia). Christine is 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir David Naish DL
Non-Executive Chairman –  
retired 25 May 2016
Sir David joined the Hilton Food Group in 
2007 as a Non-Executive Director after 
retiring from the Chairmanship of Arla 
Foods UK plc and was elected Chairman 
in 2010. He is a past President of the 
National Farmers Union and is currently 
Chairman of his family farming business 
as well as a Director of Wilson Insurance 
Broking Group Limited and Caunton 
Engineering Limited and is also a Non-
Executive Director of Produce Investments 
plc. Sir David was Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
Chris Marsh
Non-Executive Director –  
retired 27 March 2016
Chris joined the Hilton Food Group in 2007 
as a Non-Executive Director. Chris is a 
corporate broker by background, he joined 
Phillips and Drew in 1968 and headed the 
Small Cap Corporate broking team at UBS 
from 1993 until his retirement in 1998. 
From 1999 to 2004 he was a member 
of a small corporate finance advisory 
team at the Benfield Group. Chris is 
currently Non-Executive Chairman of 
Webb Capital plc and formerly of Downing 
Income VCT plc. Chris was the Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Colin Smith, John Worby and 
Christine Cross are all members 
of the Remuneration, Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
John Worby and Christine Cross are 
considered to be independent.
35
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 The Directors present their report together with the audited 
financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2017. 
Reference to other relevant information incorporated into this 
report is below.
Strategic report
The Strategic report on pages 07 to 31 sets out the development 
and performance of the Group’s business during the financial 
year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, future 
developments and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group. The Group’s financial instruments 
risk management objectives and policy are discussed in the 
treasury risk management policies section of the Performance 
and financial review on page 20.
This Strategic report also includes the Corporate and social 
responsibility report on pages 26 to 30 which contains 
details of the Group’s employment practices and greenhouse 
gas emissions.
Corporate governance and other statutory disclosures
The Corporate governance statement, Board Committee reports 
and Directors’ remuneration report on pages 45 to 57 includes 
information required by DTR 7.2.
There are no disclosures required to be made under LR 9.8.4.
Principal activities
The Group’s activities comprise specialist retail meat packing for 
international food retailers. 
Results and dividends 
The profit before income tax is £33.2m (2015: £28.0m). 
An interim dividend of 4.6p per ordinary share was paid in 
December 2016. The Directors recommend the payment of a final 
dividend for the period which is not reflected in these accounts, 
of 12.5p per ordinary share totalling £9.2m, which, together with 
the interim dividend, represents 17.1p per ordinary share for the 
year. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the 
final dividend will be paid on 30 June 2017 to members on the 
register at the close of business on 2 June 2017. Shares will be 
ex dividend on 1 June 2017.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company in office throughout 2016, together 
with their biographical details, are set out on pages 34 and 35. 
All the Directors served for the whole of the year under review 
unless stated. Chris Marsh retired on 27 March 2016, Theo 
Bergman left the Board on 22 April 2016 and Sir David Naish 
retired on 25 May 2016. John Worby and Christine Cross were 
appointed on 22 March 2016. Details of Directors’ interests in 
shares are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 55.
Directors are subject to reappointment at the Company’s AGM 
following the year in which they are appointed. In accordance 
with the Company’s Articles of Association one third of the 
Board is subject to re-election at each AGM. Accordingly Colin 
Smith and Nigel Majewski retire in accordance with the Articles 
of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, 
being eligible, each offers himself for re-election.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by law and its Articles of Association the 
Company has in place appropriate directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company is aware or has been 
notified of the following interests of 3% or more of the voting 
rights of the Company:
Number of  
ordinary shares
Percentage  
of issued  
share capital
Nature  
of holding
Fidelity Management  
& Research 7 ,094,621 9.64% Indirect
Standard Life 
Investments 6,370,370 8.66% Indirect
AXA Investment 
Managers 4,330,000 5.89% Indirect
G. Heffer 4,17 4,500 5.67% Direct
R. Heffer 4,17 4,500 5.67% Direct
Aberforth Partners 3,410,256 4.64% Indirect
Santander Asset 
Management 3,167 ,028 4.30% Indirect
Hargreave Hale 2,458,258 3.34% Indirect
Additionally Directors’ interests in shares total 9.66% and details 
are given on page 55.
Directors’ report
36
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of 
approving the Directors’ report are listed on pages 34 and 35. 
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and the Company’s 
auditors, each of these Directors confirm that:
 – to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is 
no information relevant to the audit of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware; and
 – each Director has taken all the steps a Director might 
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have expressed their willingness 
to continue in office and a resolution proposing their reappointment 
will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be 
found in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting 
accompanying this Annual report and financial statements, 
and can also be found on the Company’s website at 
www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com/investors/agm.
By order of the Board
Neil George 
Company Secretary
29 March 2017
Political donations
No donations for political purposes were made during the year 
(2015: £nil).
Share capital and control
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 
Companies Act 2006:
 – the Company has one class of share being ordinary shares of 
10p each which have no special rights. The holders of ordinary 
shares rank equally and are entitled to receive dividends and 
return of capital as declared and to vote at general meetings. 
With minor exceptions, there are no restrictions on transfers 
of ordinary shares.
 – there are no restrictions on voting rights of ordinary shares.
 – rights over ordinary shares issued under employee share 
schemes are exercisable directly by the employees. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer  
of its shares or on voting rights.
 – the Company may appoint or remove a Director by an 
ordinary resolution of the shareholders. Additionally the Board 
may appoint a Director who must retire from office at the 
following Annual General Meeting and if eligible then stand 
for re-election.
 – the Company’s Articles may be amended by a special 
resolution of the shareholders.
 – the Directors have general powers to manage the business 
and affairs of the Company. Additionally the following specific 
authorities were passed as resolutions at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting held on 25 May 2016:
 – Directors have authority to purchase up to 10% of its own 
shares subject to certain conditions.
 – Directors have authority, within limits, to exercise the powers 
of the Company to allot shares and limited authority to 
disapply shareholder pre-emption rights.
Both these authorities expire on the earlier of the date of the 
next Annual General Meeting or 25 August 2017.
 – the Company has significant long term supply agreements with 
customers which the customer may terminate in the event that 
ownership of the Company, following a takeover, passes to a 
third party which is not reasonably acceptable to that customer. 
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
37
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in September 2014 which applies to accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 October 2014. The provisions of this Code 
can be obtained from www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm.
This statement including the Board Committee reports and the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 45 to 57 detail how the 
Board applies the principles of good governance and best practice 
as set out in this UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors consider that the Company has during 2016 
complied with the ten requirements of this Code, taking into 
account the provisions for smaller companies. 
The Board
Membership
At the date of this report the Board consists of three Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors whose names, 
responsibilities, brief biographies and membership of Board 
Committees are set out on pages 34 and 35. The Directors bring 
strong judgement and expertise to the Board’s deliberations and 
the Board is of sufficient size and diversity to achieve the balance 
of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of 
the business. 
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors include the Non-Executive Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director. With the exception of the 
Non-Executive Chairman, who is presumed under the Code 
not to be independent following his appointment, the Board 
considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent. 
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the 
Group’s pension arrangements or in any of the Group’s bonus 
or share option schemes. There is a clear written division of 
responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the 
Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors met once during the year to 
scrutinise the performance of the Executive management. 
A further meeting was held without the Non-Executive Chairman 
present to assess his performance.
Senior Independent Director
John Worby, the Senior Independent Director, is available to 
shareholders as an alternative to the Non-Executive Chairman, 
Chief Executive and Finance Director. He ensures that he is 
available to meet shareholders, as required, and reports any 
relevant findings to the Board.
Rotation of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of 
the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting 
and that all new Directors are subject to reappointment by 
shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment. 
Accordingly, Colin Smith and Nigel Majewski retire in accordance 
with the Articles of Association at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, each offers him or herself 
for re-election.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Group’s Directors have 
an obligation to avoid any situation where they have a conflict 
of interests. The Group has in place procedures that require all 
Directors to notify the Group of any conflicts of interest and, for 
any such conflicts of interest to be authorised by non-interested 
Directors, provided the Company’s Articles allow for this. 
During the current financial year the Group were not advised 
of, nor did the Group identify, any such conflicts of interest.
Information and support provided to Board members
Members of the Board and its Committees are given appropriate 
documentation in advance of each Board and Committee 
meeting. For regular Board meetings these include a detailed 
period report on current and forecast trading, with comparisons 
against both budget and prior years. For all meetings appropriate 
explanatory papers are circulated well in advance on matters 
which the Board or Committee will be required to approve or 
provide responses.
The Board operates both formally through Board and Committee 
meetings and informally through regular contact between 
Directors. To assist them in carrying out their responsibilities the 
Directors have, in addition to full and timely access to all relevant 
information from management in advance of Board meetings, the 
right to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense and the advice and services of the Company Secretary 
to enable them to perform their duties as Directors. The Company 
Secretary is responsible to the Board, through the Chairman, 
for all governance matters. The appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary is determined by the Board as a whole.
Corporate governance statement
38
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Attendance at Board meetings
The following table sets out the Board meeting attendance 
by Board members, together with the percentage attended. 
Attendance at Board Committee meetings is set out in each 
Committee report.
Number  
attended
Percentage 
attended
Robert Watson 11 100%
Philip Heffer 9 82%
Nigel Majewski 11 100%
Colin Smith 11 100%
John Worby 7 88%
Christine Cross 8 100%
Theo Bergman 3 100%
Sir David Naish 5 100%
Chris Marsh 3 100%
Performance evaluation
The Non-Executive Chairman leads a formal annual performance 
evaluation of the Board and its standing Committees and 
meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year 
to convey his conclusions. During 2016 an internal evaluation 
process involved each Director completing a detailed written 
questionnaire including the opportunity to comment on any 
issue not directly covered by the questionnaire. The responses 
were analysed and considered by the Board who have 
concluded that the Directors, the Board and its standing 
Committees continue to perform effectively. The Non-Executive 
Directors met once during the year without the Non-Executive 
Chairman present in order to evaluate his performance. 
An external evaluation process was last conducted in 2011/12.
Shareholder communications
The Board promotes open communication with shareholders. 
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly 
and have dialogue with institutional shareholders both to discuss 
the Group’s performance and prospects and to develop an 
understanding of their views which are relayed back to the 
Board. The Board’s current assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects are set out in the Strategic report on pages 07 
to 31. Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts 
covering the annual and half year results. Additionally other 
reports and forecasts, together with relevant articles in the 
financial press, are circulated to the Board.
The other Executive Directors are available to meet the 
Company’s major shareholders if required and the Senior 
Independent Director is available to listen to the views of 
shareholders, should they have concerns which have not 
been previously resolved or which it was inappropriate to 
voice at prior meetings. All shareholders have the opportunity 
to ask questions at the Company’s Annual General Meeting, 
which all Directors and the Chairmen of every Board 
Committee attend. In addition the Group’s website containing 
published information and press releases can be found at 
www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com.
Board responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success 
of the Group, within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls that enable risk to be assessed and appropriately 
managed. It is responsible for setting and approving the strategy 
and key policies of the Group and monitoring the progress 
towards achieving these objectives. The Board aims to enhance 
shareholder value by providing entrepreneurial leadership for 
the Group, whilst simultaneously ensuring the appropriate 
framework of checks and balances are maintained in place.
The Board has specific powers reserved to it contained in 
a schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board 
which include:
 – acquisitions and disposals;
 – major trading agreements;
 – major capital expenditure projects;
 – dividends;
 – treasury and risk management policies;
 – approval of budgets, half-yearly and annual accounts and 
interim management statements; and
 – the giving of any guarantees or letters of comfort.
The Board meets not less than eight times a year to direct and 
control the strategy and operating performance of the Group. 
The Board also has responsibility for setting policy and monitoring 
from time to time such matters as financial and risk control, 
health and safety policy, environmental issues and management 
succession and planning. The Board has delegated to the Chief 
Executive and the Executive Directors responsibility for the 
execution of the agreed strategy and budget and the day-to-day 
management of the Group’s operations. Day-to-day decisions in 
relation to procurement and supply chain management, factory 
operations and customer liaison are delegated to the senior 
management teams at each operational site. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following 
Board Committees:
 – Nomination Committee;
 – Audit Committee;
 – Remuneration Committee; and
 – Risk Management Committee.
Each Board Committee operates under clearly defined terms 
of reference and report regularly to the Board. These terms of 
reference are reviewed on a regular basis with any revisions 
proposed to the Board for its approval. The Board ensures that 
each Committee has sufficient resources to undertake their 
duties including access to the Company Secretary and external 
advisors as appropriate.
Reports for each Board Committee are included on pages 41 
to 57.
39
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance statement continued
The Group’s planning and financial reporting procedures include 
detailed budgets and a three year strategic plan which are 
approved by the Board. Periodic management accounts report 
performance compared to the budget and additionally forecasts 
are updated through the year. These management accounts 
together with half-yearly and annual accounts produced by the 
Group’s subsidiary companies are reviewed together with the 
methodology used for consolidating these into the periodical,  
half-yearly and annual accounts. All financial information published 
by the Group is approved by the Board and Audit Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller 
are responsible for overseeing the Group’s internal controls. 
The management of the Group’s businesses have identified 
the key business risks within their operations, considered their 
financial implications and assessed the effectiveness of the 
control processes in place to mitigate these risks. The Board 
has reviewed a summary of these findings and this, together 
with its direct involvement in the strategies of the business, 
investment appraisal and budgeting processes, has enabled 
the Board to report on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control systems.
By order of the Board
Neil George 
Company Secretary
29 March 2017 
Risk management and internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
systems of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management which operate to 
safeguard the shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets 
and for reviewing their continuing effectiveness. Such an internal 
control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss as it is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and failure 
to meet business objectives. 
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten 
its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, 
which are summarised in the Risk management section on 
pages 22 to 25.
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational 
structure with established responsibilities, authorities and 
reporting lines to the Board. The organisational structure is 
designed to plan, execute, monitor and control the Group’s 
objectives effectively and ensure internal control becomes 
integral to all the Group’s operations. The Board confirms that 
the Group’s internal risk based control systems have been fully 
operative up to the date of the Annual report being approved, 
key ongoing processes and features of which are set out below:
 – appropriate mechanisms to identify and evaluate business risk;
 – a Group internal audit function which is involved in the review 
and testing of the internal control systems and of key risks 
across the Group in accordance with an annual programme 
agreed with the Audit Committee;
 – a strong control environment;
 – an information and communication process; and
 – a monitoring system and regular Board reviews 
for effectiveness.
40
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee 
for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2017.
Role of the Committee
The Audit Committee is established by the Board of Directors. 
Terms of reference formalise the roles, tasks and responsibilities 
of the Committee to comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and to achieve best practice. The Committee terms of 
reference are available and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
Membership of the Committee
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee and comprise 
the Chairman of the Committee, John Worby and the other 
Independent Non-Executive Directors, Colin Smith and Christine 
Cross. At least one member has recent and relevant financial 
experience and between them they have a wide experience 
of the food industry and commerce in general.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, Chief Financial 
Officer, Internal Auditor and the external auditors are invited to 
attend meetings as appropriate. The external auditors and the 
Internal Auditor have the opportunity for direct access to the 
Committee without the Executive Directors being present.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee which are 
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code and also in 
the Committee’s terms of reference are:
 – to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company and any formal announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance, reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgements contained in them;
 – to review the Company’s internal financial controls and internal 
control and risk management systems;
 – to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function;
 – to consider and make recommendations to the Board, to be 
put to shareholders for their approval in the general meeting, 
in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal 
of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration 
and terms of engagement of the external auditors;
 – to review and monitor the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 – to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm; and to report 
to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it 
considers that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken; 
 – to meet with the external auditors and the head of internal audit 
at least once a year without management being present; and
 – to report to the Board on how it has discharged 
its responsibilities.
Attendance at meetings of the Audit Committee
Number 
attended
Percentage 
attended
John Worby 3 100%
Colin Smith 3 75%
Christine Cross 2 100%
Sir David Naish 2 100%
Chris Marsh 1 100%
Robert Watson 4 100%
Nigel Majewski 4 100%
How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities
During 2016 the Committee met four times at appropriate 
intervals in the financial reporting and audit cycles. The work 
of the Committee during the year focused on the key areas set 
out below.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements 
including significant judgements
The Group’s accounting policies were reviewed and the Group 
continues to assess its cost plus contracts in relation to IFRIC 
4 to determine whether they contain a lease. It was considered 
that there were no other critical accounting estimates 
or judgements involved in the application of the Group’s 
accounting policies.
The external auditors identified complex supplier arrangements 
as an area of audit focus and the Committee fully considered 
this issue. An overview of Hilton’s business relationships with 
its retailer partners is contained in the ‘Business model’ section 
of the Chief Executive’s summary on page 11 and information 
on the accounting policies adopted relating to revenue 
recognition are set out in note 2 on page 71. The Committee 
reviewed accruals in relation to these contracts at the year 
end. However as Hilton’s contracts with its customers 
include pre-agreed and pre-defined revenue parameters, 
performance measures and targets there were no significant 
estimates or judgements involved in the application of these 
accounting policies.
The Committee reviewed the half and full year financial reports 
including the application of accounting policies, estimates and 
judgements in their preparation, the clarity and completeness 
of the disclosures and also held discussions with management 
and the external auditors. The Annual report and financial 
statements were, taken as a whole, considered to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. The Committee 
reviewed a paper prepared by the Finance Director relating 
to going concern and the Group’s longer term viability and 
concluded that the Group should be considered as a going 
concern. Thereafter the Committee recommended that the 
Board approve these financial reports for publication and that 
the letter of representation to the external auditors be signed.
Report of the Audit Committee
41
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued
Non-audit services and fees
Hilton has implemented a policy on the use of external auditors 
for non-audit services designed to preserve the independence of 
the external auditors. This policy categorises non-audit services 
into (i) continuing services which the Committee permits external 
auditors to undertake subject to a price cap; (ii) irregular or 
significant services requiring Committee approval on a case by 
case basis; and (iii) non-permitted services. During the year the 
policy was amended to ensure compliance with Article 5 of the 
EU Regulation implemented in the UK into the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard which prohibits the external auditor from providing 
specified non-audit services including tax services from 1 January 
2017. PwC previously provided tax services to the Group and 
therefore following their reappointment as external auditors 
they are no longer permitted to provide these tax services. 
Accordingly KPMG have been appointed to provide the Group 
with tax services from 1 January 2017.
The level of non-audit fees was reviewed which in 2016 at 
£72,000 represents 27% of audit fees. This is below the EU cap 
of 70%. Further details of these costs can be found in note 6 on 
page 78. The Committee considers that this low level of non-audit 
fees does not affect the independence of the external auditors.
Other
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference.
Conclusion
The Committee considers that the work performed as detailed 
above demonstrates that the Committee continues to operate 
effectively and discharges its responsibilities.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any questions relating to the work 
of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
John Worby 
Chairman 
29 March 2017 
Risk management and internal controls
During the year the Internal Auditor reported to the Committee 
on the internal audit work performed and on key focus areas 
for future work. The Group’s Risk Register was also updated. 
The Committee concluded that the internal audit function 
remains effective.
A review of whistle-blowing showed that no concerns had 
been raised about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting 
or other matters.
External audit
The Committee oversees the relationship with, and the 
performance of, the external auditors. Meetings were held with 
the external auditors before the audit to agree their audit plan 
and after their audit work to discuss their key audit findings.
The current external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC), were appointed in 2007. Their lead partner is 
rotated every five years to ensure continued objectivity 
and independence. 
It is the Committee’s responsibility under its terms of reference 
to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of external auditors.
Article 17 of EU Regulation 537/2014 enacted into UK law 
and now in force sets the maximum duration for an audit firm 
to conduct the statutory audit of a public interest entity as 
10 years although can be extended to up to 20 years where 
a public tendering process is conducted every 10 years. 
2016 represents the tenth year of PwC’s tenure as external 
auditor to the Company and therefore an audit tender process 
was undertaken during the year under which PwC were eligible 
to be reappointed.
The audit tender process saw invitation letters sent to the 
incumbent external auditor and to two further audit firms 
which set out the process, defined selection criteria and the 
nine week timetable. Selection criteria included having a global 
presence, technical expertise, sector and public company 
experience, culture and fit. A data room was made available 
under which the invitees had access to relevant information and 
additionally management were made available for meetings 
and discussions as necessary. Each invitee presented to an 
audit panel chaired by the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
who fed back its assessment to the Committee. The preferred 
candidate was invited to present to the Committee following 
which the Committee made a recommendation to the 
Board. Thereafter the Board accepted the Committee’s 
recommendation and accordingly PwC were reappointed as 
external auditors. The Committee considers that the selection 
procedure was conducted in a fair manner.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP annually confirm their compliance 
with UK regulatory and professional requirements including 
ethical standards and that their objectivity is not compromised. 
Their audit work is subject to independent partner and quality 
control reviews. Potential independence threats through 
the provision of non-audit services are mitigated through 
various safeguards.
The Committee continues to be satisfied with the independence 
and performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and have 
therefore recommended to the Board that they should be 
reappointed as the Group’s auditors at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
42
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Nomination 
Committee for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2017.
Role of the Committee
The Nomination Committee is established by the Board of 
Directors. Terms of reference formalise the roles, tasks and 
responsibilities of the Committee to comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and to achieve best practice. 
The Committee terms of reference are available and can be found 
on the Company’s website at www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com. 
The Nomination Committee leads the process for 
Board appointments.
The Committee meets on an as required basis.
Membership of the Committee
Members of the Committee comprise all the Non-
Executive Directors.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee which are 
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code and also in the 
Committee’s terms of reference are:
 – to review the structure, size and composition of the Board 
including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity (including 
gender) and make recommendations to the Board with regard 
to any changes;
 – to give consideration to succession planning for Directors and 
other senior executives and identify appropriate candidates for 
the approval of the Board; 
 – to oversee new appointments to the Board;
 – to review the results of the Board performance evaluation 
relating to the composition of the Board; and
 – to review the time requirements of Non-Executive Directors.
Attendance at meetings of the Nomination Committee
Number attended Percentage attended
Colin Smith 1 100%
John Worby – n/a
Christine Cross – n/a
Sir David Naish 1 100%
Chris Marsh 1 100%
How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities
During 2016 the Committee met once overseeing the transition 
of the Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee considered and recommended the appointments 
of John Worby and Christine Cross as Non-Executive Directors 
who in 2016 replaced Chris Marsh and Sir David Naish.
Hilton continues to develop management structures to promote 
its talent pipeline as part of a succession planning process 
covering the Directors and senior management positions. 
Hilton prefers where possible to recruit these positions from 
internal candidates. Accordingly processes are being developed 
to assess the current management population against criteria for 
larger management roles they could potentially fill in the future 
and put in place individual development plans.
The Chairman has discussions with each Director to review and 
agree their training and development needs.
Conclusion
The Committee considers that the work performed as detailed 
above demonstrates that the Committee continues to operate 
effectively and discharges its responsibilities.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any questions relating to the work 
of the Committee.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Colin Smith obe 
Chairman 
29 March 2017 
Report of the Nomination Committee
43
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Risk Management 
Committee for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2017.
Role of the Committee
The Risk Management Committee is established by the Board 
of Directors. Terms of reference formalise the roles, tasks 
and responsibilities of the Committee to comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and to achieve best practice. 
It seeks to focus and co-ordinate risk management activities 
throughout the Group in order to facilitate the identification, 
evaluation and management of key business risks.
The Committee meets at least six times per year.
Membership of the Committee
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and 
comprise the Chief Financial Officer, subsidiary company 
operations managers, the Group Audit Manager, the Group IT 
manager and other personnel throughout the Group as required.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Risk Management 
Committee are:
 – to raise the level of management awareness of and 
accountability for risks faced by the business;
 – to embed risk management into the Group culture;
 – to provide a mechanism for risk management issues to be 
discussed and disseminated; 
 – to oversee and advise the Board on the current risk exposures 
of the Group and future risk strategy; and
 – to provide advice on the co-ordination of risk management 
strategies across the Group ensuring they receive the 
appropriate level of sponsorship and support.
Attendance at meetings of the Risk Management 
Committee and how it has discharged its 
responsibilities
During 2016 the Committee met eleven times (of which Nigel 
Majewski attended eleven meetings with 100% attendance) 
and focused on the key areas set out below.
 – monitoring, identification and evaluation of potential risks to all 
the Hilton businesses;
 – development of an enhanced building risk assessment process 
and emergency power solutions;
 – regular monitoring of cyber risks and controls in place to 
prevent them;
 – ensuring that business continuity management systems are 
suitably maintained and adequately tested;
 – further refining the sister site support network across the 
Group in the event of any business interruption to a particular 
operating unit. This will build on already established practices 
for moving capacity on key product lines between sites and 
the establishment of central labelling equipment to significantly 
shorten reaction times making possible rapid support across 
the Group; and
 – updating the Committee’s terms of reference.
Conclusion
The Committee considers that the work performed as detailed 
above demonstrates that the Committee continues to operate 
effectively and discharge its responsibilities.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any questions relating to the work 
of the Committee.
On behalf of the Risk Management Committee
Nigel Majewski 
Chairman 
29 March 2017 
Report of the Risk Management Committee
44
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Chair’s introduction
I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration report for the 
52 weeks ended 1 January 2017, my first since being appointed 
to the Board and to Chair the Remuneration Committee on 
22 March 2016. This report sets out the Company’s policy on 
Directors’ remuneration as well as information on remuneration 
paid to Directors during the year. The report complies with the 
requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
and has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Listing Authority 
Listing Rules (the ‘Listing Rules’).
Directors’ remuneration major decisions and 
substantial changes
With the 2014 remuneration policy in its third and final year, the 
Committee carried out a comprehensive review of executive 
remuneration. The objective of the review was to ensure that 
executive remuneration is in line with good practice, that it is 
competitive but not excessive by market standards, it is aligned 
with our strategic objectives and the interests of our shareholders 
and wider stakeholders. Following the review the Committee 
consulted with leading investors and investor bodies and 
concluded that the current policy has worked well and does not 
require significant change.
2017 Remuneration Policy
Since the last Remuneration Policy was approved in 2014, Hilton 
Food Group has performed strongly, significantly outperforming 
the FTSE Small Cap index. The Company’s strategy continues 
to be implemented successfully and the wide spread of the 
Group’s operations across Europe and into the Asia Pacific 
region represents a material long term strength, in terms of 
progressively reducing Hilton’s dependence on any one national 
economy, particularly during less certain economic times.
The Committee’s comprehensive review covered the Executive 
Directors’ packages including the incentive plans. The Committee 
is conscious of the current debate on quantum of executive 
pay and around the choice of incentive, but believes that the 
current remuneration structure, comprising an annual bonus 
and a long term incentive plan, supports the Company’s strong 
performance culture and our key objective of creating long 
term shareholder value. As a result, no material changes to 
the existing Remuneration Policy are proposed except for the 
introduction of share ownership guidelines to bring ourselves 
in line with good practice and provide further alignment with 
shareholders. Under this guideline the Chief Executive and Chief 
Operating Officer will be expected to build minimum holdings 
in the Company’s shares of 300% of base salary each, with a 
100% of base salary target for other Executive Directors. Post-
employment, half of this guideline (150% and 50% of salary) will 
continue to apply for a further 12 months.
The annual bonus opportunity shall continue to be 125% of base 
salary and the normal LTIP grant level remains at 100% of salary 
for all Directors. While the Committee is cautious of the use of 
benchmarking data, it is satisfied that both elements are around 
or below mid-market levels.
Implementation of policy in 2017
Basic salaries
As set out in last year’s remuneration report, Theo Bergman 
stepped down from the role of Chief Executive Officer for 
Continental Europe and his responsibilities were taken on by the 
three current Executive Directors. To reflect this, the Committee 
decided to apply phased salary increases until the desired 
positioning had been achieved. The first increases were applied 
and became effective from 1 January 2016.
In reviewing salaries for 2017, the Committee considered 
Company and individual Director performance, changes in 
responsibility and levels of increase in the sector for the broader 
UK employee population. 
The Committee noted the continuing successful growth and 
development of Hilton’s business but recognised that with the 
increased size came greater complexity. This applies in particular 
in Australia where Hilton will be constructing and financing a 
new factory in Queensland and in Portugal where a new joint 
venture agreement has recently been signed. Additionally Theo 
Bergman stepped down from the Board in the year and 
therefore since 2012 the number of Hilton’s Executive Directors 
has reduced from five to three. In view of the larger, more 
complex business, but with a smaller executive management 
team, the Committee concluded that increases in the basic 
salaries of the Executive Directors were warranted in order to be 
commensurate with the breadth of their roles, their significant 
experience, and the complex nature of an international business. 
Therefore the Committee agreed basic salary increases of 10% 
for Robert Watson, Chief Executive and Philip Heffer, Chief 
Operating Officer and 7% for Nigel Majewski, Chief Financial 
Officer effective from 1 January 2017, noting that after these 
increases the aggregate of Hilton’s Executive Directors’ basic 
salaries will still be lower than in 2012. The Committee also 
agreed that increases in Executive Directors salaries over 
the following three years will be capped at no more than the 
increase of the general workforce except in the case of a 
promotion or substantive business expansion where a larger 
increase may be considered.
Furthermore, the increases have provided for greater 
capacity below the Board to nurture a strong talent pipeline 
and therefore, assist with the Board’s succession planning. 
This is even more essential at Hilton where Directors have had 
considerable longevity.
Variable pay 
The 2017 Executive Director bonus scheme financial element 
shall be measured against profit before tax rather than net 
income removing any tax implications which are largely out of 
management’s control. 
There will be a 20% award for threshold performance equalling 
the 2016 actual profit before tax level increasing on a straight 
line basis to a 105% of salary payout for performance of at least 
110% of 2017 budgeted profit before tax or higher. A further 
strategic element of up to 20% of salary will remain available 
based on individual achievement against personal and strategic 
targets aggregating to a 125% of salary maximum bonus 
opportunity for the Executive Directors.
No changes are proposed to awards under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan which will continue to be based on a sliding scale 
of stretching EPS targets.
Directors’ remuneration report
45
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ remuneration policy
The Committee considers that the Group’s remuneration policies 
should encourage a strong performance culture and emphasise 
long term shareholder value creation in order to be aligned with 
its shareholders’ interests. 
The original remuneration policy was passed by a binding 
shareholder vote at the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting 
and became effective from the date of that meeting. The policy 
had a three year life and therefore a new policy, as set out below, 
will be proposed as a resolution subject to a binding shareholder 
vote at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The new policy has taken into account the provisions contained 
within the UK Corporate Governance Code and other good 
practice guidelines from institutional shareholders and 
shareholder bodies. Subject to approval by shareholders it will 
become effective from that AGM date and shall be in place for 
the next three year period unless a new policy is presented to 
shareholders before then. All payments to Directors during the 
policy period will be consistent with the approved policy.
Overview of remuneration policy
The revised policy, developed following a comprehensive 
remuneration review, has the following objectives:
 – To develop a remuneration structure which supports the 
Company’s strong performance culture and our key objective of 
creating long term shareholder value;
 – To enable the Company to recruit and retain Executives 
with the capability to lead the Company on its ambitious 
growth path;
 – To reflect principles of best practice; and
 – To ensure our remuneration structures are transparent and 
easily understood both internally and externally.
As a result of our remuneration review the only key change 
proposed relates to the introduction of share ownership 
guidelines. In line with best practice and to ensure long term 
alignment with shareholders, shareholding guidelines of a 
minimum of 300% of base salary for the current Chief Executive 
and Chief Operating Officer and a 100% guideline for all other 
Directors will be introduced. Half of the guideline (150% and 
50% of salary) will apply for a 12 month period post cessation 
of employment.
Remuneration policy table
The following table summarises all elements of pay which 
make up the total remuneration opportunity for Directors, 
and details how each element is operated and links to the 
Company’s strategy.
Performance and reward for 2016
Annual bonus
The Company performed strongly in 2016, with a 23.1% increase 
in net income on a reported basis. This resulted in performance 
above threshold but below maximum resulting in a bonus of 
66.31% of salary becoming payable out of a maximum of 105% 
of salary.
The Committee determined that excellent progress had been 
made on the strategic objectives with full achievement of key 
objectives relating to expansion plans in the Australian business 
and the preparation of a joint venture in Portugal, as well as 
underlying growth objectives for the UK. Therefore 20% of 
salary became payable out of a maximum of 20%.
In aggregate a total bonus of 86.31% of salary is payable in 
respect of 2016 performance.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The LTIP award granted in 2014 was subject to performance 
against stretching EPS targets including threshold performance 
EPS growth of 8% per annum where 25% of the options would 
vest, rising to EPS growth of at least 13% per annum where 
100% of the options would vest. Following the three year 
performance period ending 1 January 2017 EPS compound 
annual growth of 10.35% was achieved and it is expected that 
there will be vesting of 60.18% out of a maximum of 100%.
The Committee believes the annual bonus and LTIP outcomes 
are reflective of performance over the relevant one and three year 
performance periods.
Conclusion
The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of 
remuneration and consulted extensively with leading investors in 
putting together the 2017 remuneration policy. The Committee 
encourages dialogue with investors and stakeholders and I would 
be happy to discuss any of the matters set out in this report with 
you in more detail.
There will be an advisory resolution on the Directors’ 
remuneration report (other than the Directors’ remuneration 
policy) and a separate binding resolution on the Directors’ 
remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM. On behalf of the 
Committee, I commend this report to you and ask for your 
support at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
46
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Basic  
salary 
To recruit and reward 
executives of a suitable 
calibre for the role and  
duties required 
Normally reviewed annually by the Committee with 
effect from 1 January, taking account of Company 
performance, individual performance, changes in 
responsibility and levels of increase for the broader 
UK employee population (or their local market where 
relevant). 
Reference is also made to levels within relevant 
FTSE and industry comparators on a periodic basis 
although this is only one factor that is taken into 
account when determining pay levels and increases.
The Committee considers the impact of any basic 
salary increase on the total remuneration package. 
Pay levels throughout the organisation are also taken 
into account in order to ensure adequate provision 
for timely succession.
For Messrs Watson, Heffer and 
Majewski, following the 
implementation of the proposed 2017 
increases as set out in this 
Remuneration report, increases in 
2018 and 2019 will be capped by the 
increases made to the general 
workforce (except in cases of 
promotion or if there has been a 
substantive business expansion).
For future directors this cap does not 
apply. On occasion it may be 
appropriate for a new director to be 
positioned on a below market base 
salary but then to provide above 
market increases as the executive 
gains experience in the role.
Benefits To provide market  
competitive benefits 
to ensure the retention 
of employees 
The Company typically provides: 
 – Company car and fuel;
 – Private healthcare; and
 – Other ancillary benefits, including relocation 
expenses (as required).
Any reasonable business related expenses (including 
tax thereon) may be reimbursed.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits 
which are introduced for the wider workforce on 
broadly similar terms.
The value of traditional benefits is 
based on the cost to the Company 
and is not pre-determined.
Relocation expenses or benefits will 
take into account the nature of the 
relocation and will be provided on  
a fair and reasonable basis.
Pension To provide adequate 
retirement benefits 
Employer contributions are made to money purchase 
pension schemes or in certain circumstances a 
salary supplement may be paid in lieu of such 
pension contributions.
Up to 15% of basic salary.
Annual  
bonus 
To encourage and 
reward delivery of 
the Company’s short 
term financial and/or 
strategic objectives 
The Committee will review performance metrics 
at the start of the year. Performance criteria will 
be aligned to the Company’s strategic objectives 
at that time.
The majority of the bonus will be linked to 
challenging financial metrics, which will typically 
include a measure of profit. Strategic or other 
individual targets may be used to determine a 
minority of the bonus outcome.
For financial measures, typically a sliding scale of 
targets will be set. Where operated, no more than 
20% of that element shall be payable for threshold 
performance. It may not be possible to set sliding 
scale targets for individual or strategic measures but 
full disclosure on the objectives and performance 
against these will be provided on a retrospective basis.
At the start of the performance year, the Committee 
may determine that a proportion of the bonus is 
deferred in shares.
If a proportion of bonus is deferred in shares, the 
value of any dividends payable on those shared 
during the vesting period may be payable.
Bonuses are subject to claw-back in circumstances 
of misstatement, error or gross misconduct.
Up to 125% of basic salary.
47
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Long  
term  
incentives
To encourage and reward 
delivery of the 
Company’s medium term 
objectives. To provide 
a way of building up a 
meaningful shareholding 
in the Company and 
providing alignment with 
shareholders’ interests
Under its Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Hilton 
makes annual awards of conditional shares or nil 
cost options to selected senior executives.
Awards vest subject to continued employment and 
satisfaction of challenging performance conditions 
measured over three years to be satisfied by the 
issue of new shares or through purchasing shares 
in the market. 
The performance measures shall normally be 
weighted towards EPS with performance targets 
determined at the date of grant with up to 25% 
vesting at threshold performance. The Committee 
may introduce new or reweight existing performance 
measures so that they are aligned with the 
Company’s strategic objectives at the start of each 
performance period. The Committee will consult 
with leading shareholders before introducing 
a new measure.
Awards are subject to claw-back for three years 
following vesting in circumstances of material 
misstatement, error or misconduct.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on the value 
of dividends paid during the vesting period or any 
holding period (if applicable). The payment may 
be in the form of additional shares or cash and 
may assume reinvestment.
The Committee has the discretion in certain 
circumstances to grant and/or settle an award 
in cash.
100% of salary for all Executive 
Directors, but in exceptional 
circumstances such as recruitment or 
retention, the limit may be increased 
to 200% of salary.
All  
employee  
share  
schemes 
To encourage employee 
share ownership and 
thereby increase their 
alignment with 
shareholders
All employees are eligible to join any permissible 
employee scheme. Executive Directors will be 
eligible to participate in any all employee share plan 
operated by the Company on the same terms as 
other eligible employees. 
Under Hilton’s current Sharesave Scheme (HMRC 
approved for the UK and Ireland) regular savings over 
three years is followed by a six month period 
to exercise the options granted.
No performance conditions attach to options granted 
under the Scheme. 
The maximum level of participation 
is subject to the limits imposed by 
HMRC from time to time (or a lower 
cap set by the Company).
Shareholding  
guidelines
To further align Executive 
Directors’ interests with 
those of long term 
shareholders and 
other stakeholders
Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in 
the Company’s shares equal to a minimum value of 
300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 
Chief Operating Officer and 100% of base salary 
for all other Directors.
To the extent that this guideline has not been 
achieved, executives are normally required to retain 
50% of any vested share awards (after the sale to 
meet tax obligations).
Half of the guideline requirement will apply for 
12 months post-employment.
N/A
48
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity 
Non- 
Executive  
Director  
fees
To attract and retain 
a high-calibre Non-
Executive Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors 
by offering a market 
competitive fee level.
The Non-Executive Directors receive fees for 
carrying out their duties.
Fees are reviewed periodically. A base fee is 
augmented for Committee Chairmanship or 
membership to take into account the additional time 
commitment and responsibilities associated with 
those committees. Neither the Chairman nor the 
Non-Executive Directors are eligible for any 
performance related remuneration.
Non-Executive Director remuneration is determined 
by the Non-Executive Chairman and the Executive 
Directors. The Non-Executive Chairman’s 
remuneration is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. If there is a temporary yet material 
increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive 
Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata 
basis to recognise the additional workload.
Additional fees may be payable in relation to extra 
responsibilities undertaken such as chairing a Board 
Committee and/or Senior Independent Director role 
or being a member of a committee.
Any reasonable business-related expenses (including 
tax thereon) can be reimbursed if determined to be 
a taxable benefit.
As for the Executive Directors, 
there is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. 
Any increases to fee levels will take 
into account the general salary 
increase for the broader 
UK employee population, the level 
of time commitment required to 
undertake the role and the level 
of fees paid in the general market.
Notes
1.  As Hilton operate in a number of geographies remuneration practices vary across the Group. However, employee remuneration policies are based on the 
same broad principles and the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees as a whole. For example, 
the Committee takes into account the general base salary increase for the broader UK employee population when determining the annual salary review for 
the Executive Directors. There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which 
the Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Company. The key differences 
in remuneration policy between the Executive Directors and employees across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance related pay and the 
inclusion of a share based long term incentive plan for Executive Directors. There is a lower aggregate incentive quantum at below executive level with levels 
driven by market comparatives and the impact of the role. Long term incentives are not provided outside of the most senior executives as they are reserved 
for those viewed as having the greatest potential to influence Group levels of performance.
2. The choice of the annual bonus financial element shall be determined at the start of each year based on the key business priorities for the year. The majority 
is likely to be based on clear financial targets including a significant weighting on profit since this is the primary financial measure and a driver of company 
value and dividend.
3. The long term incentive metrics are determined at the time of grant. Performance metrics may include a measure of profitability such as EPS and any other 
metric which aligns the incentive with long term returns to shareholders. EPS growth is a key financial metric and a driver of company value dividend.
4. Long term incentive and Sharesave schemes are operated in accordance with their respective Scheme and other rules under which the Committee has 
some discretion relating to their administration which is consistent with market practice. Under the LTIP such discretion covers:
– participation;
– the timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
– treatment of awards in the event of good leavers (including determination of good leaver status), death and intervening events (including variations 
in capital and change of control) which address vesting date, exercise period and reduction in number of vesting options;
– in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment or retention the grant limit may be increased to 200% of salary;
– minor alterations to benefit the plan administration, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control 
or regulatory treatment; and
– where an event has occurred such that it would be appropriate to amend the performance condition so long as the altered performance condition is not 
materially less difficult to satisfy.
5. The Committee retains discretion to adjust the long term incentive vesting outcome if it feels that the level of vesting is not commensurate with performance 
over the period. The Committee, in using its discretion, would act fairly and reasonably and would seek to consult with shareholders prior to the use of any 
upwards discretion.
49
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Other policy information
Element Description
Non-UK based 
Directors and foreign 
currency translation
Directors may be employed who are based outside of the UK and therefore subject to the employment laws 
and accepted practice for that country which may be different to those in the UK. The Committee will ensure 
that any future overseas based Directors are remunerated on an equivalent basis as in the UK albeit that it may 
be necessary to satisfy local statutory requirements.
Remuneration to overseas Directors paid in foreign currencies is, for disclosure purposes, translated into Sterling 
at the average exchange rate for the relevant year.
Approach to 
recruitment
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the 
Company’s approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment. For the appointment of a new 
Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time. 
The salary for a new Executive Director shall take into account the experience and calibre of the individual and 
the market rate required for recruiting him or her. The initial salary may be set below the normal market rate, 
with phased increases over the first few years as the Executive Director gains experience in their new role. 
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it appropriate to set different annual 
bonus performance criteria for the remainder of the first performance year of appointment. The bonus would be 
pro-rated to reflect the portion of the year in employment. In addition, an LTIP award can be made shortly 
following an appointment (assuming the Company is not in a closed period). The maximum bonus and LTIP 
grant level will be in accordance with the maxima outlined in the policy table.
If an individual is forfeiting remuneration from his or her previous employer, the Committee may offer additional 
cash and/or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders. Such payments would reflect and be limited to remuneration relinquished when leaving the 
former employer and would reflect (as far as possible) the nature and time horizons attaching to that 
remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions. The aim of any such award would be to ensure 
that so far as possible, the expected value and structure of the award will be no more generous than the amount 
being forfeited. Shareholders will be informed of any such payments in the remuneration report.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will 
be allowed to pay out according to its terms. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing 
prior to appointment may continue. 
For external and internal Executive Director appointments the Committee has the discretion to pay ongoing 
relocation costs for a reasonable period, as well as one-off payments (assuming they are fair and reasonable).
Any share-based awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s 
existing share plans. If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the 
Listing Rules.
Payment for  
loss of office 
Payments for loss of office are made in accordance with the terms of the Directors’ service contracts as below. 
On termination no bonus is payable unless the Committee determines good leaver circumstances apply where, 
subject to performance conditions, a pro-rata bonus may be payable at the Company’s discretion.
LTIP awards will generally lapse on cessation although they may be capable of vesting in certain good leaver 
situations. For good leavers, outstanding share awards may vest at the original vesting date, or on the date of 
cessation if the Committee decides, subject to time pro-rating and the performance conditions being satisfied. 
The Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating or apply it to a lesser extent if it feels it is 
appropriate to do so.
In accordance with its terms of reference the Committee ensures that contractual terms on termination, and any 
payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to 
mitigate loss is fully recognised. The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where 
considered appropriate. In addition, the Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise 
claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company.
Consideration of 
shareholder views
The Committee is always interested in shareholder views and is committed to an open dialogue. Accordingly, 
the Committee will seek to engage with major shareholders on any proposed significant changes to its 
remuneration policies or in the event of a significant exercise of discretion. The Committee considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation to each AGM alongside views expressed during the year. In addition, 
we engage actively with our largest shareholders and consider the range of views expressed.
Consideration of 
employment 
conditions elsewhere 
in the Group
The Committee takes into account the general employment reward packages of employees across the Group 
when setting policy for Executive Director remuneration and is kept informed of changes in pay across the 
Group. Employees have not previously been actively consulted on Director remuneration policies but this may 
be considered in future where appropriate.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
50
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Director service contract and other relevant information
Provision Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
Term All appointed on 24 April 2007 with no fixed term Colin Smith 3 years from 25 May 2016
John Worby and Christine Cross 3 years 
from 22 March 2016
Re-election at AGM Every 3 years Every 3 years
Notice period Up to 12 months for both the Company and the Director. 
The service contract policy for new appointments will be  
on similar terms as existing Directors
6 months for both the Company  
and the Director
Termination  
payment/payments 
in lieu of notice
Up to 12 months’ salary in lieu of notice.
If a claim is made against the Company in relation to a termination 
(e.g. for unfair dismissal), the Committee retains the right to make 
an appropriate payment in settlement of such claims as considered 
in the best interests of the Company. Additional payments 
in connection with any statutory entitlements (e.g. in relation 
to redundancy) may be made as required
None
Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation  
to a change of control
There are no enhanced terms  
in relation to a change of control
External 
appointments
External appointments can be held and earnings retained  
from such appointments with the Company’s permission
N/A
Inspection
Executive Director service agreements and Non-Executive Director appointment letters are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered 
into with current or former Directors (such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes) that have 
been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out 
in the Annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Illustration of future application of remuneration policy
The chart below illustrates 2017 Executive Directors’ remuneration at different levels of performance under the remuneration policy.
Notes
1. Fixed elements of pay comprise salary and fees, benefits and pension. Salary and fees include known increases, benefits are included at 2016 levels and 
pension is calculated at the approved percentage rates.
2. One year targets represent the annual bonus. The minimum scenario assumes no bonus on the basis that threshold is not reached, the on target scenario 
assumes an aggregate 60% of salary bonus, and the maximum scenario assumes the full 125% bonus.
3. Multiple year targets comprise long term incentives. The minimum scenario assumes that threshold performance is not reached with no awards vesting, the 
on target scenario is based on 55% of the awards vesting and the maximum scenario reflects the maximum performance with 100% of the awards vesting.
2017 Directors’ remuneration illustration £’000
One year targets Fixed Multiple year targets
250 0
Maximum
On target
Minimum
Maximum
On target
Minimum
Maximum
On target
Minimum
Robert
Watson
Philip
Heffer
Nigel
Majewski
500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750
100% 588
52%
36%
23% 1,126
28% 1,641
25%
36%
100%
878 53%
36%
25%
35%
22%
463
29% 1,275
100% 433
52%
35%
25%
36%
23% 836
29% 1,222
51
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Annual report on remuneration
Role of the Committee
Remuneration policy is delegated by the Board to the 
Remuneration Committee established by the Board of Directors. 
Terms of reference formalise the roles, tasks and responsibilities 
of the Committee to comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and to achieve best practice. The Committee’s terms of 
reference are available and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com.
The Committee meets at least twice per year.
Membership of the Committee
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on 
the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in 
consultation with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
At the beginning of 2016 the Committee comprised the Non-
Executive Directors (Chris Marsh and Colin Smith) and the 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board (Sir David Naish) who was 
considered to be independent on appointment. Chris Marsh and 
Sir David Naish stepped down from the Board during the year 
and were replaced by John Worby and Christine Cross who both 
joined the Remuneration Committee with Christine Cross elected 
as its Chair.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive and external 
advisors may be invited by the Committee to attend meetings 
as and when required. The Company Secretary is in attendance 
at all meetings.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee which 
are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code and also in 
the Committee’s terms of reference are:
 – setting the remuneration policy for all Executive Directors and 
the Company’s Non-Executive Chairman;
 – approving the design of, and determining the targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company 
and approving the aggregate annual payments made under 
such schemes;
 – reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval 
by the Board and shareholders; and
 – recommending and monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management.
Attendance at meetings of the Remuneration Committee
Number attended Percentage attended
Christine Cross 5 100%
Colin Smith 6 100%
John Worby 5 100%
Chris Marsh 1 100%
Sir David Naish 2 100%
External advisors 
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street (part of Aon 
plc) to provide advice on remuneration matters and are satisfied 
that such advice is objective and independent. The amount paid 
for these services during the year amounted to £40,558 and no 
other services to the Company are provided. New Bridge Street 
is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a 
signatory to its code of conduct.
Share scheme dilution limits
The Company applies established good governance restrictions 
over the issue of new shares under all its share schemes of 10% 
in 10 years and 5% in 10 years for discretionary schemes. As at 
1 January 2017 the headroom available under these limits was 
3.2% and 0% respectively.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
This Directors’ remuneration report (other than the Directors’ 
remuneration policy) is subject to a non-binding resolution at each 
AGM. The Directors’ remuneration policy is subject to a binding 
resolution every three years or sooner where any changes are 
made. The advisory resolution to approve the 2015 Directors’ 
remuneration report was unanimously passed on a show of hands 
at the AGM held in the year. The proxy vote was as follows:
Approve Directors’ remuneration report
Resolution type Advisory
Votes for 46,537 ,244
% 99.96%
Votes against 19,077
% 0.04%
Votes withheld 162,589
The remainder of this section is subject to audit.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
52
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Single total figure table of remuneration
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below.
52 weeks to 1 January 2017 Salary  
and fees  
(note 1)  
£’000
Benefits 
(note 2)  
£’000
Annual 
bonus 
(note 3)  
£’000
Long term 
incentive  
(note 4) 
£’000
Pension  
(note 5) 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Executive Directors
Robert Watson 426 50 368 265 64 1,173
Philip Heffer 328 48 283 212 49 920
Nigel Majewski 328 29 283 212 49 901
Theo Bergman 109 7 – – 30 146
Non-Executive Directors
Colin Smith 86 – – – – 86
John Worby 43 – – – – 43
Christine Cross 43 – – – – 43
Sir David Naish 36 – – – – 36
Chris Marsh 12 – – – – 12
Total 1,411 134 934 689 192 3,360
53 weeks to 3 January 2016 Salary  
and fees  
£’000
Benefits 
£’000
Annual 
bonus 
£’000
Long term 
incentive  
£’000
Pension  
£’000
Total 
£’000
Executive Directors
Robert Watson 387 47 292 – 58 784
Philip Heffer 310 45 234 – 46 635
Theo Bergman 320 19 223 – 115 677
Nigel Majewski 310 29 234 – 40 613
Non-Executive Directors
Sir David Naish 90 – – – – 90
Chris Marsh 50 – – – – 50
Colin Smith 50 – – – – 50
Total 1,517 140 983 – 259 2,899
Notes
1. Salary and fees
 2016 salaries reflect a 10% increase for Robert Watson and 6% increase for Philip Heffer and Nigel Majewski on 2015. The salary disclosed in respect 
of Theo Bergman includes an 8% holiday allowance.
2. Benefits
 Benefits provided included company car and fuel and private healthcare.
3. Annual bonus
 The 2016 annual bonus has two elements. The financial element bonus was based on net income which, above threshold performance, was calculated on a 
sliding scale up to the maximum for achievement of the stretch target. A strategic element bonus was available based on achievement of personal objectives. 
The bonus outcome for 2016 for all Executive Directors is summarised below.
Bonus element Metric Threshold performance Target performance Maximum stretch target 2016 achieved
Financial Net income £20.0m £22.9m £27.1m £24.6m
% against target 87% 100% 118% 107%
% of base salary 20% 40% 105% 66.31%
Strategic % of base salary 20% 20.00%
Total % of base salary 125% 86.31%
 The strategic bonus element achievement related to key objectives around expansion plans in the Australian business and the preparation of a joint venture in 
Portugal, as well as underlying growth objectives for the UK business all of which were fully achieved.
 In 2015 net income exceeded the threshold achieving 104.7% of 2015 budgeted net income which resulted in a financial element bonus of 55.54% of salary. 
A 20% of salary bonus was paid to each Executive Director in respect of the strategic metric in view of good strategic progress and very strong underlying 
profit. Accordingly a total bonus of 75.54% of salary was paid during the year to all Executive Directors.
53
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Directors’ remuneration report continued
4. Long term incentive
 Long term incentives comprise the number of share options under the Company’s share plans where the achievement of performance targets ended in the 
year multiplied by the difference between the share price on the date of vesting and the exercise price. 
 For 2016 there are incentive awards options under the Long Term Incentive Plan due to vest during 2017 subject to performance conditions covering the three 
years 2014-2016. The expected long term incentive outcome is summarised below. 
    
 
 
Metric
 
Threshold 
performance 
 
Maximum 
performance
 
2016  
achieved
 
 
Director
Awards  
granted 
No.
Awards expected  
to vest 60.18%  
No.
Value at year end 
share price of £6.20 
£’000
2014-16 EPS % annual growth 8% 13% 10.35% Robert Watson 71,046 42,755 265
Vesting % 25% 100% 60.18% Philip Heffer 56,836 34,204 212
Nigel Majewski 56,836 34,204 212
In 2015 there were incentive awards options under the Long Term Incentive Plan due to vest during 2016 subject to performance conditions covering the three 
years 2013-2015. The earnings per share performance metric for that period fell short of the threshold 5% compound annual growth target and accordingly 
there was 0% vesting.
5. Pension
 Payments were made during 2016 and 2015 to money purchase pension schemes or in lieu as a salary supplement at rates of up to 15% of basic salary 
for Robert Watson, Philip Heffer and Nigel Majewski and up to 24% of basic salary, holiday allowance and bonus for Theo Bergman (in compliance with 
a legacy arrangement).
6. Payments to past directors
 Theo Bergman left the Board on 22 April 2016 but continued to be employed by the Group on his existing salary package for the remainder of the year 
although he was not entitled to an annual bonus. Payments made in 2016 since his departure from the Board comprised salary (including holiday allowance) 
£244,000, benefits £15,000 and pension £68,000. As he continues to be employed he retains an interest in share awards granted.
 No other payments were made to former directors in 2016 or 2015.
7. Payments for loss of office
 No payments for loss of office were made in 2016 or 2015.
54
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Director shareholding and share interests
Details of Director shareholdings and changes in outstanding share awards were as follows:
Director Type
At 3 January 
2016
Granted 
 (note 5) Exercised Lapsed
At 1 January 
2017
Exercise 
 price 
(pence)
Earliest 
exercise 
date
Latest 
exercise  
date Notes
Robert Watson Shares 2,926,380 2,821,380 1
Share options 130,610 – (130,610) – – 246.00 10.05.13 10.05.20 2
Share options 1,955 – – – 1,955 460.25 01 .04.17 01 .10.17 4
Share options 2,142 – – – 2,142 420.00 01 .06.18 01 .12.18 4
Total share options 134,707 – (130,610) – 4,097
Nil cost options 102,228 – – (102,228) – nil 08.05.16 08.05.23 3(a)
Nil cost options 71,046 – – – 71,046 nil 28.04.17 28.04.24 3(b)
Nil cost options 86,359 – – – 86,359 nil 20.04.18 20.04.25 3(c)
Nil cost options – 7 4,055 – – 7 4,055 nil 25.04.19 25.04.26 3(d)
Total nil cost options 259,633 7 4,055 – (102,228) 231,460
Philip Heffer Shares 4,181,030 4,181,030 1
Share options 120,301 – (120,301) – – 199.50 12.05.11 12.05.18 2
Share options 144,206 – (144,206) – – 17 4.75 01 .05.12 01 .05.19 2
Share options 104,488 – (104,488) – – 246.00 10.05.13 10.05.20 2
Share options 1,955 – – – 1,955 460.25 01 .04.17 01 .10.17 4
Share options 2,142 – – – 2,142 420.00 01 .06.18 01 .12.18 4
Total share options 373,092 – (368,995) – 4,097
Nil cost options 81,830 – – (81,830) – nil 08.05.16 08.05.23 3(a)
Nil cost options 56,836 – – – 56,836 nil 28.04.17 28.04.24 3(b)
Nil cost options 69,088 – – – 69,088 nil 20.04.18 20.04.25 3(c)
Nil cost options – 57 ,090 – – 57 ,090 nil 25.04.19 25.04.26 3(d)
Total nil cost options 207 ,754 57 ,090 – (81,830) 183,014
Nigel Majewski Shares 91,760 91,760 1
Share options 104,488 – (104,488) – – 246.00 10.05.13 10.05.20 2
Share options 1,955 – – – 1,955 460.25 01 .04.17 01 .10.17 4
Share options 2,142 – – – 2,142 420.00 01 .06.18 01 .12.18 4
Total share options 108,585 – (104,488) – 4,097
Nil cost options 81,830 – – (81,830) – nil 08.05.16 08.05.23 3(a)
Nil cost options 56,836 – – – 56,836 nil 28.04.17 28.04.24 3(b)
Nil cost options 69,088 – – – 69,088 nil 20.04.18 20.04.25 3(c)
Nil cost options – 57 ,090 – – 57 ,090 nil 25.04.19 25.04.26 3(d)
Total nil cost options 207 ,754 57 ,090 – (81,830) 183,014
Theo Bergman Shares 328,333 328,333 1
Share options 113,610 – – – 113,610 246.00 10.05.13 10.05.20 2
Total share options 113,610 – – – 113,610
Nil cost options 88,37 4 – – (88,37 4) – nil 08.05.16 08.05.23 3(a)
Nil cost options 60,828 – – – 60,828 nil 28.04.17 28.04.24 3(b)
Nil cost options 67 ,260 – – – 67 ,260 nil 20.04.18 20.04.25 3(c)
Nil cost options – 56,722 – – 56,722 nil 25.04.19 25.04.26 3(d)
Total nil cost options 216,462 56,722 – (88,37 4) 184,810
Colin Smith Shares 50,000 50,000 1
John Worby Shares – 7 ,000 1
Christine Cross Shares – 5,000 1
Sir David Naish Shares 60,000 60,000 1
Chris Marsh Shares 30,000 30,000 1
Notes
1. There is no current requirement for Directors to hold shares in the Company although there is a share ownership guideline proposed in the new Directors’ 
remuneration policy. All shares are beneficially owned with the exception of 1,316,917 shares held by various family trusts of which Robert Watson is a 
trustee. Additionally 750,000 shares held by Robert Watson have been pledged as security on a personal loan. Since the year end Robert Watson sold 
50,000 shares. There have been no other changes in the interests of Directors between 1 January 2017 and the date of this report.
2. Executive Share Option Scheme awards which have vested.
3. Nil cost options granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan which are subject to a performance condition of compound growth in the Group’s earnings per 
share over three financial years commencing with the year in which the awards were granted. 
(a) Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% for 5% EPS compound annual growth and 100% for at least 10% EPS compound annual growth. 
(b) Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% for 8% EPS compound annual growth and 100% for at least 13% EPS compound annual growth. 
(c) Awards vest on a sliding scale between 10% for 6% EPS compound annual growth and 100% for at least 18% EPS compound annual growth. 
(d) Awards vest on a sliding scale between 10% for 5% EPS compound annual growth and 100% for at least 17% EPS compound annual growth.
4. Share options granted under Hilton’s all employee Sharesave Scheme.
5. Face value of the nil cost option awards granted in the year were Robert Watson £425,817, Philip Heffer £328,266, Theo Bergman £326,154 and Nigel 
Majewski £328,266 based on the actual share price at date of grant of 575.00 pence on 22 April 2016.
55
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Total Shareholder Return
Hilton Food Group – Total Return Index
FTSE All Small – Total Return Index
2009
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2015
Further information
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 2017 financial year
Base salaries, benefits and pension
For 2017 Executive Director salaries have increased by 10% for Robert Watson and Philip Heffer and 7% for Nigel Majewski. 
These increases reflect the additional responsibilities taken on following Theo Bergman’s departure and the increased complexity 
of the business.
2016 
£’000
2017 
£’000
Robert Watson 426 468
Philip Heffer 328 361
Nigel Majewski 328 351
There are no changes in benefits, pensions and Non-Executive Director fees which will be operated in line with the approved policy.
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus in 2017 will be 125% of salary for Robert Watson, Philip Heffer and Nigel Majewski. This bonus will 
be payable subject to stretching targets around net income (up to 105% of salary) and personal and strategic targets (up to 20% of 
salary). As financial targets are set with reference to the budget, they are therefore considered commercially sensitive. The Committee 
will disclose targets on a retrospective basis.
2017 long term incentive awards
The Committee will make a decision on whether to make a 2017 grant of nil cost award, their timing and the EPS targets to be 
set following the Annual report approval date. Details of new grant and performance conditions will be published via a Regulatory 
Information Service.
TSR performance graph
The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return performance (TSR) (share price movements plus reinvested dividends) of the 
Company compared against the FTSE Small Cap Index covering the eight years 2009 to 2016. The FTSE Small Cap Index is, in the 
opinion of the Directors, the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured.
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
56
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Chief Executive Officer remuneration eight year trend
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Total remuneration (£’000) 584 644 730 593 610 626 784 1,173
Annual bonus (as a percentage of the maximum) 85% 63% 53% 10% 42% 32% 60% 69%
Long term incentive vesting (as a percentage 
of the maximum) n/a 100% 100% 100% n/a 0% 0% 60%
Note
There were no long term incentive awards that were due to vest dependent on a performance period ending in 2009 or 2013.
Chief Executive Officer remuneration percentage change
2016 percentage increase over 2015 CEO Company average
Salary 10.1% 4%
Benefits 6.4% n/a
Annual bonus 25.9% n/a
Note
The majority of employees do not receive benefits or annual bonus and so there is no meaningful data. An alternative comparator 
group is senior management for whom the percentage changes for salary, benefits and annual bonus were 4%, 0% and 
9% respectively. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out for the comparison total spend on pay with dividends.
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
% change
Staff costs (note 8 to the financial statements) 83,423 73,639 13%
Dividends payable 12,580 10,663 18%
Note
Dividends payable comprises any interim dividends paid in respect of the year plus the final dividend proposed for the year  
but not yet paid.
On behalf of the Board
Christine Cross 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
29 March 2017 
57
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Directors’ responsibilities in  
respect of the Annual report 
and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and 
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are 
required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
the Company’s transactions and which disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors’ are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual report and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Responsibility statement of the 
Directors in respect of the Annual 
report and financial statements
Each of the current Directors whose names and functions are 
set out on pages 28 and 29, confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge and belief:
 – the Group and parent company financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and in 
conformity with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group and the Company; and
 – the management reports, which comprise the Strategic 
report and the Directors’ report, include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group and the Company, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 29 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by:
Robert Watson OBE Nigel Majewski  
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
Statements of Directors’ responsibilities
58
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 – Hilton Food Group Plc’s group financial statements and 
company financial statements (the “financial statements”) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the 
company’s affairs as at 1 January 2017 and of the group’s profit 
and the group’s and the company’s cash flows for the 52 week 
period (the “period”) then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 – the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 
1 January 2017;
 – the consolidated income statement and the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended;
 – the consolidated and company cash flow statements for the 
period then ended;
 – the consolidated and company statements of changes  
in equity for the period then ended; and
 – the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere 
in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality 
Overall group materiality: £1,660,000 
which represents 5% of profit 
before tax.
Audit scope
The group comprises a holding 
company, seven trading subsidiaries, 
four intermediary holding companies 
and two dormant companies. 
All of these components were 
subject to audits of their complete 
financial information.
The group also holds a 50% 
investment in an Australian joint 
venture. Specific audit procedures 
on the transactions and balances 
of the joint venture were carried out.
Area of focus
Customer supply arrangements.
The scope of our audit and our area of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias 
by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. 
The risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
is identified as an area of focus in the table on page 60. We have 
also set out how we tailored our audit to address this specific 
area in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete 
list of all risks identified by our audit.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas 
of focus
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Hilton Food Group Plc
59
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Customer supply arrangements
The Group has entered into a number of rebate and incentive 
arrangements with its customers.
Rebates and incentives are calculated based on agreed 
contracted rates and volumes of sales to customers over the 
term of the contracts.
As the arrangements are based on contracted rates and known 
sales volumes there is little judgement or estimation required 
around the recognition of these amounts accurately and in the 
appropriate accounting period.
However, owing to the number of agreements in place and the 
range of contractual terms included within those agreements 
there is an increased risk that the application of those terms 
might be calculated inaccurately, omitted from the calculation 
or included in the incorrect accounting period.
Significant audit effort was therefore required to obtain sufficient 
evidence that there was no material misstatement in this regard.
Furthermore, the group occasionally agrees variations to these 
arrangements with its customers during the term of the  
contract. This can result in a change in agreed rates applied  
in the calculation of the rebate and incentive amounts.
We therefore focused our work on the appropriate reflection of 
these variations in the directors’ calculations, including assessing 
whether all variations with a material impact had been included 
in the calculation.
We obtained and read copies of open customer supply agreements 
in order to understand the impact of these arrangements on the 
financial statements.
We held discussions with the directors and inspected minutes 
of board discussions and determined, based on that evidence and 
the fact that we did not identify any omitted agreements through 
our audit procedures in other areas, that the list of contracts 
management had provided was complete.
We selected a sample of rebate and incentive accruals and agreed 
them to the contracts. Based on these procedures we determined 
that the amounts had been recognised in the correct period and 
calculated appropriately based on the correct contracted rates 
in the agreement and sales amounts in the accounting ledgers 
(which we had audited).
We tested that variations in contracts and/or rates had been 
reflected in the accrual calculations and determined, based 
on these procedures, that they had been correctly reflected.
We also selected rebate and incentive payments made after 
the period end and checked that, where appropriate, they were 
accrued in the financial statements and found that they were.
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Hilton Food Group plc
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the group operates.
The Group is structured as a parent company with thirteen 
subsidiary undertakings:
 – seven trading subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom, the 
Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Denmark and 
Sweden, all of these entities are required to have statutory 
audits under local legislation; and
 – four intermediary holding companies and two dormant 
companies, principally located in the United Kingdom with the 
non-dormant companies all requiring statutory audits.
All of these entities are audited by PwC network firms with the 
exception of the subsidiary located in Netherlands.
In addition to these thirteen entities the group has a 50% 
interest in a joint venture company located in Australia. As the 
joint venture was material to the group, the group engagement 
team carried out specified procedures on the transactions 
and balances.
The key procedures we adopted in respect of working with all 
component auditors were:
 – Issuing formal group reporting instructions, which set out our 
requirements for the component auditors, together with our 
assessment of audit risks in the group;
 – Planning discussions were held with all component auditors 
in order to agree those requirements, discuss the group audit 
risks and to identify any component specific risks;
 – High level analysis of the financial information of the 
component by the group engagement team;
 – Attending, with group management, the component clearance 
meeting held between the component auditors and local 
management; and
 – Obtaining signed audit opinions that the component financial 
information was properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
60
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and  
compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course 
of the audit:
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements; and
 – the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been 
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the 
group, the company and their environment obtained in the course 
of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any 
material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report. We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
 – the statement given by the directors on page 58, in accordance 
with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as 
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the group’s 
and company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of 
the group and company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
 – the section of the Annual Report on page 42, as required 
by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us 
to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing 
and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial 
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group 
materiality
£1,660,000 (2015: £1,419,000).
How we  
determined it
5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
Given that the group’s businesses are 
profit orientated and the directors use 
profit based measures to assess the 
performance of the group, we believe 
that profit before tax provides us with 
a consistent year-on-year basis for 
determining materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above £100,000 
(2015: £100,000) as well as misstatements below that amount 
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 21, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that 
the group and company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least 
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of 
the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all 
future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the group’s and company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
61
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Hilton Food Group plc
Adequacy of accounting records and  
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report –  
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects  
of the group and of the principal risks that would 
threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 – the Directors’ confirmation on page 21 of the Annual Report, 
in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
group, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
 – the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks 
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
 – the Directors’ explanation on page 21 of the Annual Report, 
in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how 
they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that period 
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they 
have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications 
or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the group and the directors’ statement 
in relation to the longer-term viability of the group. Our review 
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted 
of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process 
supporting their statements; checking that the statements 
are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and 
considering whether the statements are consistent with the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
62
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Overview
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s 
and the company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness 
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. With respect to the Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report, we consider whether those reports 
include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Kevin MacAllister (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Belfast 
29 March 2017
The maintenance and integrity of the Hilton Food Group plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept 
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
63
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 64
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 65
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements Strategic report Governance
Consolidated income statement 66
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 66
Consolidated balance sheet 67
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 68
Consolidated cash flow statement 69
Notes to the financial statements 70
Registered office and advisors 91
Financial 
statements 66
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes
2016 
52 weeks  
£’000
2015  
53 weeks  
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 1,234,495 1,094,822
Cost of sales (1,083,667) (957 ,067)
Gross profit 150,828 137 ,755
Distribution costs (11,089) (10,091)
Administrative expenses (108,471) (99,887)
Share of profit in joint venture 3,056 1,222
Operating profit 34,324 28,999
Finance income 9 87 97
Finance costs 9 (1,202) (1,148)
Finance costs – net 9 (1,115) (1,051)
Profit before income tax 33,209 27 ,948
Income tax expense 10 (6,553) (6,489)
Profit for the year 26,656 21,459
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 24,649 20,017
Non-controlling interests 2,007 1,442
26,656 21,459
Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent during the year
Basic (pence) 11 33.7 27 .5
Diluted (pence) 11 33.2 27 .2
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
2016 
52 weeks  
£’000
2015  
53 weeks  
£’000
Profit for the year 26,656 21,459
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences 8,266 (2,739)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year net of tax 8,266 (2,739)
Total comprehensive income for the year 34,922 18,720
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 32,104 17 ,552
Non-controlling interests 2,818 1,168
34,922 18,720
The notes on pages 70 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Strategic report Governance 67
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
Group Company
Notes
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016  
£’000
2015  
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 70,396 67 ,230 – –
Intangible assets 14 8,584 10,073 – –
Investments 15 4,847 2,396 102,985 102,985
Deferred income tax assets 21 1,058 1,000 – –
84,885 80,699 102,985 102,985
Current assets
Inventories 16 24,382 18,272 – –
Trade and other receivables 17 118,608 96,095 41 470
Current income tax assets 33 – – 11
Cash and cash equivalents 18 59,304 52,806 208 150
202,327 167 ,173 249 631
Total assets 287,212 247 ,872 103,234 103,616
Equity
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Ordinary shares 22 7,355 7 ,286 7,355 7 ,286
Share premium 7,273 8,191 7,273 8,191
Employee share schemes reserve 5,250 901 – –
Foreign currency translation reserve 2,966 (4,489) – –
Retained earnings 96,419 82,829 15,685 17 ,120
119,263 94,718 30,313 32,597
Reverse acquisition reserve (31,700) (31,700) – –
Merger reserve 919 919 71,019 71,019
88,482 63,937 101,332 103,616
Non-controlling interests 6,613 4,938 – –
Total equity 95,095 68,875 101,332 103,616
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 17,409 28,405 – –
Deferred income tax liabilities 21 1,505 1,654 – –
18,914 30,059 – –
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 9,567 11,728 – –
Trade and other payables 20 163,636 136,537 1,902 –
Current income tax liabilities – 673 – –
173,203 148,938 1,902 –
Total liabilities 192,117 178,997 1,902 –
Total equity and liabilities 287,212 247 ,872 103,234 103,616
The notes on pages 70 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 66 to 90 were approved by the Board on 29 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
R. Watson OBE  N. Majewski 
Director   Director
Hilton Food Group plc – Registered number: 06165540
Consolidated balance sheet 68
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Attributable to owners of the parent
Group Notes
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Employee 
share 
schemes 
reserve 
£’000
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Reverse 
acquisition 
reserve 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 29 December 2014 7 ,259 7 ,235 441 (2,024) 72,717 (31,700) 919 54,847 4,786 59,633
Profit for the year – – – – 20,017 – – 20,017 1,442 21,459
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences – – – (2,465) – – – (2,465) (27 4) (2,739)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – – (2,465) 20,017 – – 17 ,552 1,168 18,720
Issue of new shares 27 516 – – – – – 543 – 543
Adjustment in respect of 
employee share schemes – 408 342 – – – – 750 – 750
Tax on employee share schemes – 32 118 – – – – 150 – 150
Dividends paid 12 – – – – (9,905) – – (9,905) (1,016) (10,921)
Total transactions with owners 27 956 460 – (9,905) – – (8,462) (1,016) (9,478)
Balance at 3 January 2016 7 ,286 8,191 901 (4,489) 82,829 (31,700) 919 63,937 4,938 68,875
Profit for the year – – – – 24,649 – – 24,649 2,007 26,656
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences – – – 7,455 – – – 7,455 811 8,266
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – – 7,455 24,649 – – 32,104 2,818 34,922
Issue of new shares 69 1,423 – – – – – 1,492 – 1,492
Adjustment in respect of 
employee share schemes – (1,949) 3,823 – – – – 1,874 – 1,874
Tax on employee share schemes – (392) 526 – – – – 134 – 134
Dividends paid 12 – – – – (11,059) – – (11,059) (1,143) (12,202)
Total transactions with owners 69 (918) 4,349 – (11,059) – – (7,559) (1,143) (8,702)
Balance at 1 January 2017 7,355 7,273 5,250 2,966 96,419 (31,700) 919 88,482 6,613 95,095
Company
Balance at 29 December 2014 7 ,259 7 ,235 – – 13,470 – 71,019 98,983
Profit for the year – – – – 13,555 – – 13,555
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – – – 13,555 – – 13,555
Issue of new shares 27 516 – – – – – 543
Adjustment in respect of 
employee share schemes – 408 – – – – – 408
Tax on employee share schemes – 32 – – – – – 32
Dividends paid 12 – – – – (9,905) – – (9,905)
Total transactions with owners 27 956 – – (9,905) – – (8,922)
Balance at 3 January 2016 7 ,286 8,191 – – 17 ,120 – 71,019 103,616
Profit for the year – – – – 9,624 – – 9,624
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – – – 9,624 – – 9,624
Issue of new shares 69 1,423 – – – – – 1,492
Adjustment in respect of 
employee share schemes – (1,949) – – – – – (1,949)
Tax on employee share schemes – (392) – – – – – (392)
Dividends paid 12 – – – – (11,059) – – (11,059)
Total transactions with owners 69 (918) – – (11,059) – – (11,908)
Balance at 1 January 2017 7,355 7,273 – – 15,685 – 71,019 101,332
The notes on pages 70 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Strategic report Governance 69
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
Group Company
Notes
2016 
52 weeks 
£’000
2015 
53 weeks 
£’000
2016 
52 weeks 
£’000
2015 
53 weeks 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 24 50,066 50,960 – –
Interest paid (1,202) (1,148) – (72)
Income tax (paid)/received (7,460) (4,553) – 54
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 41,404 45,259 – (18)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (15,744) (13,676) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 430 77 – –
Purchases of intangible assets (647) (54) – –
Interest received 87 97 – –
Dividends received – – 9,625 13,600
Dividends received from joint venture 1,184 – – –
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (14,690) (13,556) 9,625 13,600
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings – 3,336 – –
Repayments of borrowings (14,870) (6,157) – –
Repayment of inter-company loan – – – (4,403)
Issue of ordinary shares 1,492 543 1,492 543
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (11,059) (9,905) (11,059) (9,905)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1,143) (1,016) – –
Net cash used in financing activities (25,580) (13,199) (9,567) (13,765)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,134 18,504 58 (183)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 52,806 35,586 150 333
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 5,364 (1,284) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 18 59,304 52,806 208 150
The notes on pages 70 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement 70
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
1 General information
Hilton Food Group plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”) is a specialist retail meat packing business 
supplying major international food retailers in fourteen European countries and Australia. The Company’s subsidiaries are listed 
in note 15.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of the registered office is 
2–8 The Interchange, Latham Road, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE29 6YE. The registered number of the Company is 06165540.
The Company maintains a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 1 January 2017 (prior financial year 53 weeks to 3 January 2016).
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue on 29 March 2017.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 408 Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income and related notes. Profit for the year dealt with in the income statement of 
Hilton Food Group plc amounted to £9,624,000 (2015: £13,555,000).
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all of the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Hilton Food Group plc have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS), IFRIC interpretations and 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. The reasons why the Directors consider 
this basis to be appropriate are set out in the Performance and financial review on page 21.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£’000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements, are disclosed in note 4.
Basis of consolidation
These consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Hilton Food Group plc (“the Company”), its subsidiaries 
and its share of profit in joint ventures, together, (“the Group”) drawn up to 1 January 2017. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of the entity.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from inter-group transactions, are eliminated 
on consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value 
of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Joint ventures are all entities which the Group exercises joint control and has an interest in the net assets of that entity. 
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment 
is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or 
loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. 
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition 
movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the investment. 
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report Governance 71
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(a) New standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2016
Amendment to IAS 1 (Presentation of financial statements) on disclosure initiative (1 January 2016)
Amendment to IAS 16 (Property, plant and equipment) and IAS 41 (Biological assets) regarding bearer plants (1 January 2016)
Amendment to IAS 16 (Property, plant and equipment) and IAS 38 (Intangible assets) on clarification of acceptable methods 
of depreciation and amortisation (1 January 2016)
Amendment to IAS 27 (Separate financial statements) (1 January 2016)
Amendment to IFRS 11 (Joint arrangements) on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation (1 January 2016)
Amendment to IFRS 10 (Consolidated financial statements) and IAS 28 (Investments in associates) on investment entities applying 
the consolidation exemption (1 January 2016) 
(b)  New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective, are subject to EU endorsement and not early adopted
Amendment to IFRS 10 (Consolidated financial statements) and IAS 28 (Investments in associates) on sale or contribution of assets 
(to be determined) (*)
Amendment to IAS 7 (Statement of cash flows) on disclosure initiative (1 January 2017) (*)
Amendment to IAS 12 (Income taxes) on recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses (1 January 2017) (*)
IFRS 9 (Financial instruments) (1 January 2018)
Amendment to IFRS 9 (Financial instruments) on general hedge accounting (1 January 2018) (*)
Amendment to IFRS 4 ‘Insurance contracts’ regarding the implementation of IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ (1 January 2018) (*)
IFRS 14 (Regulatory deferral accounts) (1 January 2016) (*)
IFRS 15 (Revenue from customers with contracts) (1 January 2018)
Amendment to IAS 15 (Revenue from customers with contracts) (1 January 2018)
IFRS 16 (Leases) (1 January 2019) (*)
IFRIC 22 (Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration) (1 January 2018) (*)
IAS 40 (Investment property) on transfers of investment property (1 January 2018) (*)
Amendment to IFRS 2 (Share-based payment) on clarifying share-based payment transactions (1 January 2018) (*) 
(*) Not yet endorsed by the EU
Other than IFRS 16 none of these IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations or amendments are expected to have a material impact on the Group 
or the Company. Under IFRS 16 the Group expects a number of operating leases to become “on-balance sheet”, with the biggest 
impact being on the Group’s operating leases for property.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the 
Group or Company. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the 
Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the 
Group. Revenue may be increased and/or decreased by reference to a range of pre-agreed and pre-defined performance measures. 
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits 
will flow to the Group and the criteria set out in the following paragraph have been met.
The Group sells meat in the wholesale market. Sales of goods are recognised when a Group entity has delivered products to the 
customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the customer’s acceptance of the products. Delivery does not 
occur until the products have been shipped to the location specified by the customer, the risks of obsolescence and loss have 
been transferred to the customer, and either the customer has accepted the products in accordance with the sales contract, 
the acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the Group has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance have been satisfied.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, 
has been identified as the Group’s Executive Directors. 72
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have 
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
 – assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
 – income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are 
translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); and
 – all resulting currency translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and disclosed as a separate component 
of equity in a foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the 
income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity 
are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is 
derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they 
are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of property, plant and equipment to their residual values 
over their estimated useful economic lives, as follows:
Annual rate
Leasehold buildings and improvements 4% – 14%
Plant and machinery 14% – 33%
Fixtures and fittings 14% – 33%
Motor vehicles 25%
Land is not depreciated. Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The residual value and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each 
balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying value is written down to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than 
its estimated recoverable amount. These impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Following the recognition of 
an impairment loss, the depreciation charge applicable to the asset is adjusted prospectively in order to systematically allocate the 
revised carrying amount, net of any residual value, over the remaining useful economic life.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance 73
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
Intangible assets 
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and purchase of non-controlling interests is included in ‘intangible assets’, tested annually 
for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition 
or purchase over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or non-controlling interest 
at the date of acquisition. 
(b) Computer software
Acquired software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives 
of three to seven years. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
(c) Product licences
The costs of acquiring product licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful economic 
lives of five to ten years.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually 
for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell, and value in use. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible 
reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets
(a) Classification
The Group classifies all of its financial assets as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and 
receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet. 
(b) Recognition and measurement 
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
Financial assets are derecognised when (a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or (b) 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party or (c) despite having retained 
some significant risks and rewards of ownership, control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical 
ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.
(c) Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of 
financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if 
there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset 
(a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group 
of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit 
losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the 
asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is either determined on the first in first out basis or by 
the ‘retail method’ depending on the subsidiary. The ‘retail method’ computes cost on the basis of selling price less the appropriate 
trading margin. Cost comprises material costs, direct wages and other direct production costs together with a proportion of 
production overheads relevant to the stage of completion of work in progress and finished goods and excludes borrowing costs. 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs to completion and appropriate selling and distribution costs. 
Provision is made, where necessary, for slow moving, obsolete and defective inventories. 74
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. 
If collection is expected in one year or less they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less provision for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. Bank overdrafts are shown on the balance sheet within borrowings in current liabilities.
Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The share premium and employee share schemes reserve represents the premium on new shares issued in connection with and the 
fair value of share options outstanding under the Group’s share schemes respectively.
The foreign currency translation reserve represents the cumulative currency differences arising on the translation of the Group’s 
overseas subsidiaries.
The merger and reverse acquisition reserves arose during 2007 following the restructuring of the Group.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables represent obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. If not, they are presented as non-
current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings
All borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that 
some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. To the extent there is 
no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to an acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the 
cost of that asset. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Leases
Assets acquired under a lease which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, are capitalised 
as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments and are 
depreciated over the shorter of their useful economic lives and their lease term with any impairment being recognised in accumulated 
depreciation. Amounts payable under such leases (finance leases), net of transaction costs, are classified as current and non-current 
liabilities based on the lease payment dates. Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the 
interest is charged to the income statement in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. The annual 
rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement as incurred on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge represents the expected tax payable or recoverable on the taxable profit for the year using tax laws 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance 75
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted 
for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
The Group operates defined contribution schemes for certain employees in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark and 
contributes to a state administered money purchase scheme in Poland. The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately 
administered pension insurance plans and has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been made. 
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. 
In the Netherlands and Sweden the Group contributes to industry-wide pension schemes for its employees. Although having some 
defined benefit features, the Group’s liability to these schemes is limited to the fixed contributions which are recognised as an 
expense when they are due. Accordingly the Group has accounted for these schemes as defined contribution schemes.
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of options is recognised as an expense with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-
market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected 
to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with 
a corresponding adjustment to equity. All adjustments to equity are recognised as a separate component of equity in an employee 
share scheme reserve. When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net of any directly 
attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
3 Financial risk management
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including price risk, foreign exchange risk and cash flow 
interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Group by monitoring the foregoing risks. 
(a) Market risk
(i) Price risk  
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk as it holds no listed or other equity investments. The Group is exposed to 
commodity price risk which is significantly mitigated through its customer agreements which are on a cost plus or agreed packing 
rate basis.
(ii) Foreign exchange risk  
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the normal course of business in its overseas operations, principally on transactions 
in Euros, Swedish Krona, Danish Krone and Polish Zloty, although such risk is mitigated as natural hedges exist in each operation 
through matching local currency cash flows. The Group regularly monitors foreign exchange exposure and to date has deemed it not 
appropriate to hedge its foreign exchange position.
(iii) Cash flow interest rate risk  
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow 
interest rate risk. The Group seeks to manage exposure to interest rate risk through interest rate caps over the majority of its long 
term borrowings. 76
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
3 Financial risk management continued
(iv) Sensitivity analysis
Income  
statement 
£’000
2016  
Equity 
£’000
Income  
statement 
£’000
2015  
Equity 
£’000
Group
Annual effect of a change in Group-wide interest rates by 0.5% 115 115 146 146
–115 –115 –146 –146
Annual effect of a change in exchange rates to the GBP £ by 10% 2,188 7,658 1,871 6,317
–1,790 –6,266 –1,531 –5,168
(b) Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk in respect of credit exposures to its retail customer partners and banking arrangements. 
The Group, whose only customers comprise blue chip international supermarket retailers, has implemented policies that require 
appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made and in relation to its banking partners. The Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk is £171.9m (2015: £143.7m) as stated in note 27.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group monitors regular cash forecasts to ensure that it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient 
headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities and without breaching its banking covenants. The Group held significant 
cash and cash equivalents of £59.3m (2015: £52.8m) and maintains a mix of long term and short term debt finance.
The Group’s financial liabilities measured as the contractual undiscounted cash flows mature as follows:
2016 2015
Borrowings 
£’000
Finance leases 
£’000
Trade and  
other payables 
£’000
Borrowings 
£’000
Finance leases 
£’000
Trade and other 
payables 
£’000
Less than one year 11,433 377 159,889 12,155 317 132,970
Between one and two years 11,251 390 – 11,948 326 –
Between two and five years 2,482 1,213 – 15,024 1,025 –
Over five years – 1,069 – – 1,286 –
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 
to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of a gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA. Net debt is calculated 
as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current borrowings’ as shown on the consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash 
equivalents. EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before significant interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. There was gearing 
of nil as at the year end (2015: nil). 
Fair value estimation 
The carrying value of trade receivables (less impairment provisions) and trade payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. 
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current 
market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. The Directors consider that there is a single level 
of fair value measurement hierarchy for disclosure purposes.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
Some of Hilton’s long term supply contracts are on a cost plus basis. IFRIC 4 requires that such arrangements are reviewed to 
determine whether they contain a lease. These cost plus agreements typically contain benchmarking clauses which allow our 
customers to obtain competitive pricing or to source its supply from a competitor. Additionally product inputs and packaging are 
traded in active markets which are monitored by our customers and furthermore product selling prices are updated on a frequent basis 
thereby resulting in pricing that is, in substance, a market price. On this basis the criteria in IFRIC 4 for determining whether these 
agreements contain a lease are not met. 
During 2016 and 2015 there were no critical accounting estimates or other judgements in relation to the application of the Group’s 
accounting policies. Strategic report Governance 77
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
5 Segment information
Management have determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Directors that are used 
to make strategic decisions. 
The Executive Directors have considered the business from both a geographic and product perspective. 
From a geographic perspective, the Executive Directors consider that the Group has seven operating segments: i) United Kingdom; 
ii) Netherlands; iii) Republic of Ireland; iv) Sweden; v) Denmark; vi) Central Europe including Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, 
Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia; and vii) Central costs and other including the share of profit from the joint venture in Australia. 
The United Kingdom, Netherlands, Republic of Ireland, Sweden and Denmark have been aggregated into one reportable segment 
‘Western Europe’ as they have similar economic characteristics as identified in IFRS 8. Central Europe and Central costs and other 
comprise the other reportable segments.
From a product perspective the Executive Directors consider that the Group has only one identifiable product, wholesaling of meat. 
The Executive Directors consider that no further segmentation is appropriate, as all of the Group’s operations are subject to similar 
risks and returns and exhibit similar long term financial performance.
The segment information provided to the Executive Directors for the reportable segments is as follows:
2016 2015
Western  
Europe 
£’000
Central  
Europe 
£’000
Central costs 
and other  
£’000
Total 
£’000
Western  
Europe 
£’000
Central  
Europe 
£’000
Central costs 
and other  
£’000
Total 
£’000
Total segment revenue 1,175,989 87,023 – 1,263,012 1,020,844 7 4,165 – 1,095,009
Inter–segment revenue (28,512) (5) – (28,517) (187) – – (187)
Revenue from  
external customers 1,147,477 87,018 – 1,234,495 1,020,657 7 4,165 – 1,094,822
Operating profit/(loss)/ 
segment result 35,899 2,129 (3,704) 34,324 32,107 2,255 (5,363) 28,999
Finance income 18 69 – 87 20 76 1 97
Finance costs (956) – (246) (1,202) (1,066) – (82) (1,148)
Income tax (expense)/credit (7,215) (427) 1,089 (6,553) (6,959) (455) 925 (6,489)
Profit/(loss) for the year 27,746 1,771 (2,861) 26,656 24,102 1,876 (4,519) 21,459
Depreciation and amortisation 18,581 999 126 19,706 18,205 1,036 122 19,363
Additions to non-current assets 14,892 1,294 205 16,391 12,905 547 278 13,730
Segment assets 259,355 18,477 8,289 286,121 224,739 17 ,836 4,297 246,872
Current income tax assets 33 –
Deferred income tax assets 1,058 1,000
Total assets 287,212 247 ,872
Segment liabilities 179,658 8,992 1,962 190,612 165,283 9,411 1,976 176,670
Current income tax liabilities – 673
Deferred income tax liabilities 1,505 1,654
Total liabilities 192,117 178,997 78
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
5 Segment information continued
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length. Revenue from external customers reported to the Executive Directors 
is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
The Executive Directors assess the performance of each operating segment based on its operating profit. Operating profit 
is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
The amounts provided to the Executive Directors with respect to total assets and liabilities are measured in a manner consistent 
with that of the financial statements. The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and their physical location. 
The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment. The Group interest bearing reorganisation loan is not considered 
to be a segment liability.
The Group has four principal customers (comprising groups of entities known to be under common control), Tesco, Ahold, Coop 
Danmark and ICA Gruppen. These customers are located in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Republic of Ireland, Sweden, Denmark 
and Central Europe including Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
Analysis of revenues from external customers and non-current assets are as follows:
Revenues from  
external customers
Non-current assets excluding  
deferred tax assets
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016  
£’000
2015 
£’000
Analysis by geographical area
United Kingdom – country of domicile 488,106 441,673 43,020 39,784
Netherlands 294,308 257 ,398 8,183 9,445
Sweden 208,974 182,621 15,715 13,752
Republic of Ireland 64,452 55,880 5,666 3,999
Denmark 91,637 83,17 4 7,594 9,757
Central Europe 87,018 7 4,076 3,649 2,962
1,234,495 1,094,822 83,827 79,699
Analysis by principal customer
Customer 1 570,062 513,401
Customer 2 317,740 284,560
Customer 3 225,657 197 ,608
Customer 4 89,936 81,634
Other 31,100 17 ,619
1,234,495 1,094,822
6 Auditors’ remuneration
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors 
and its associates.
Group
2016  
£’000
2015 
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated 
financial statements 127 121
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 141 125
– Other services pursuant to legislation 48 47
– Services relating to taxation 68 104
– All other services 4 3
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates 388 400
Fees payable to other auditors in respect of services provided to subsidiary undertakings 53 51 Strategic report Governance 79
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
7 Expenses by nature
Group
2016  
£’000
2015 
£’000
Changes in inventories of finished goods and goods for resale (1,738) 1,009
Raw materials and consumables used 1,012,062 893,813
Employee benefit expense (note 8) 83,423 73,639
Depreciation and amortisation – owned assets 19,537 19,213
Depreciation and amortisation – leased assets 169 150
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 11,421 11,178
Trade receivables – impairment 2 70
Hire of plant and machinery 530 888
Transportation expenses 11,012 10,052
Operating lease payments 7,275 6,756
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 206 (217)
Other expenses 59,328 50,494
Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 1,203,227 1,067 ,045
8 Employee benefit expense
Group
2016  
£’000
2015 
£’000
Staff costs during the year
Wages and salaries 69,388 62,383
Social security costs 9,170 7 ,797
Share options granted to Directors and employees 1,874 750
Other pension costs 2,991 2,709
83,423 73,639
Group
2016  
Number
2015  
Number
Average number of persons employed (including Executive Directors) during the year by activity
Production 2,305 2,325
Administration 643 587
2,948 2,912
Group
2016 
£’000
2015  
£’000
Key management compensation (including Directors)
Salaries and short term employee benefits, including termination benefits 4,336 3,396
Post-employment benefits 257 325
Share-based payments 1,312 525
5,905 4,246
Group
2016 
£’000
2015  
£’000
Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments 3,168 2,640
Company contribution to money purchase pension scheme 192 259
3,360 2,899
Further details of Directors’ emoluments and share interests are given in the Directors’ remuneration report.
There are no other employees of the Company other than the Directors. Employee expense of the Company amounted to £nil 
(2015: £nil). 80
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
9 Finance income and costs
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Finance income
Interest income on short term bank deposits 82 90
Other interest income 5 7
Finance income 87 97
Finance costs
Bank borrowings (915) (920)
Finance leases (162) (161)
Other interest expense (125) (67)
Finance costs (1,202) (1,148)
Finance costs – net (1,115) (1,051)
10 Income tax expense
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Current income tax
Current tax on profits for the year 7,091 6,787
Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years (91) (18)
Total current tax 7,000 6,769
Deferred income tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (56) (389)
Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years (391) 109
Total deferred tax (447) (280)
Income tax expense 6,553 6,489
Deferred tax credited directly to equity during the year in respect of employee share schemes amounted to £111,000 (2015: £118,000).
The tax on the Group’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the standard rate of UK 
Corporation Tax of 20% (2015: 20.25%) applied to profits of the consolidated entities as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Profit before income tax 33,209 27 ,948
Tax calculated at the standard rate of UK Corporation Tax 20% (2015: 20.25%) 6,642 5,659
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 317 618
Joint venture income not taxable (611) (247)
Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years (482) 91
Profits taxed at rates other than 20% (2015: 20.25%) 495 375
Other 192 (7)
Income tax expense 6,553 6,489
There is no tax impact relating to components of other comprehensive income. Strategic report Governance 81
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
11 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Company has share options for which a calculation is done to determine the 
number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s 
shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares 
calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
2016 2015
Group Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
Profit attributable to owners of the parent (£’000) 24,649 24,649 20,017 20,017
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands) 73,247 73,247 72,7 48 72,7 48
Adjustment for share options (thousands) – 945 – 970
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares (thousands) 73,247 74,192 72,7 48 73,718
Basic and diluted earnings per share (pence) 33.7 33.2 27 .5 27 .2
12 Dividends 
Group and Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Second interim dividend in respect of 2015 paid 9.2p per ordinary share 6,725 –
Final dividend in respect of 2015 paid 1.3p per ordinary share (2015: 9.5p) 951 6,919
Interim dividend in respect of 2016 paid 4.6p per ordinary share (2015: 4.1p) 3,383 2,986
Total dividends paid 11,059 9,905
The Directors propose a final dividend of 12.5p per share payable on 30 June 2017 to shareholders who are on the register at 2 June 
2017. This dividend totalling £9.2m has not been recognised as a liability in these consolidated financial statements. 82
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
13 Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land and  
buildings 
(including 
leasehold 
improvements) 
£’000
Plant and 
machinery 
£’000
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£’000
Motor  
vehicles 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 29 December 2014 37 ,675 160,215 8,554 297 206,7 41
Exchange adjustments (724) (5,167) (250) (1) (6,142)
Additions 3,521 9,391 755 9 13,676
Reclassification – (235) 53 – (182)
Disposals (1,464) (561) (88) (7) (2,120)
At 3 January 2016 39,008 163,643 9,024 298 211,973
Accumulated depreciation
At 29 December 2014 17 ,267 109,911 6,802 119 134,099
Exchange adjustments (460) (3,573) (188) – (4,221)
Charge for the year 3,737 12,219 860 68 16,884
Reclassification – (72) 21 – (51)
Disposals (1,464) (406) (91) (7) (1,968)
At 3 January 2016 19,080 118,079 7 ,404 180 144,7 43
Net book amount
At 29 December 2014 20,408 50,304 1,752 178 72,642
At 3 January 2016 19,928 45,564 1,620 118 67 ,230
Cost
At 4 January 2016 39,008 163,643 9,024 298 211,973
Exchange adjustments 1,909 16,426 931 5 19,271
Additions 344 14,480 714 206 15,744
Reclassification (note 14) 103 (267) 1,636 – 1,472
Disposals (1,464) (1,522) (257) (155) (3,398)
At 1 January 2017 39,900 192,760 12,048 354 245,062
Accumulated depreciation
At 4 January 2016 19,080 118,079 7,404 180 144,743
Exchange adjustments 1,405 12,237 773 1 14,416
Charge for the year 2,713 13,666 795 84 17,258
Reclassification (note 14) – – 1,508 – 1,508
Disposals (1,464) (1,426) (256) (113) (3,259)
At 1 January 2017 21,734 142,556 10,224 152 174,666
Net book amount
At 1 January 2017 18,166 50,204 1,824 202 70,396
Land and buildings are held under short leaseholds. Details of bank borrowings secured on assets of the Group are given in note 19. 
Depreciation charges are included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
The cost and net book amount of property plant and equipment in the course of its construction included above comprise plant and 
machinery £1,980,000 (2015: £1,654,000).
Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance leases 3,487 3,011
Accumulated depreciation (2,254) (1,794)
Net book amount 1,233 1,217
Included in assets held under finance leases are land and buildings with a net book amount of £1,233,000 (2015: £1,217,000).
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance 83
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
14 Intangible assets
Group
Product  
licences 
£’000
Computer 
software  
£’000
Goodwill  
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 29 December 2014 19,305 4,116 836 24,257
Exchange adjustments (560) (137) – (697)
Additions – 54 – 54
Reclassifications – 182 – 182
Disposals – (123) – (123)
At 3 January 2016 18,7 45 4,092 836 23,673
Accumulated amortisation
At 29 December 2014 8,156 3,554 – 11,710
Exchange adjustments (408) (109) – (517)
Charge for the year 2,142 337 – 2,479
Reclassifications – 51 – 51
Disposals – (123) – (123)
At 3 January 2016 9,890 3,710 – 13,600
Net book amount
At 29 December 2014 11,149 562 836 12,547
At 3 January 2016 8,855 382 836 10,073
Cost
At 4 January 2016 18,745 4,092 836 23,673
Exchange adjustments 1,756 (1,071) – 685
Additions – 647 – 647
Reclassifications (note 13) – (1,472) – (1,472)
Disposals (216) (1) – (217)
At 1 January 2017 20,285 2,195 836 23,316
Accumulated amortisation
At 4 January 2016 9,890 3,710 – 13,600
Exchange adjustments 1,288 (1,095) – 193
Charge for the year 2,241 207 – 2,448
Reclassifications (note 13) – (1,508) – (1,508)
Disposals – (1) – (1)
At 1 January 2017 13,419 1,313 – 14,732
Net book amount
At 1 January 2017 6,866 882 836 8,584
Amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the income statement. 84
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
15 Investments
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost, which is the fair value of consideration paid.
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At 4 January 2016 and 1 January 2017 102,985 102,985
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group are:
(%) Proportion of 
shares held by 
Subsidiary undertakings Registered address Country Share class Parent Group
Hilton Foods Asia Pacific Limited
2-8 Interchange Latham Road,  
Huntingdon PE29 6YE
UK £1 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Food Solutions Limited UK £1 Ordinary – 55
Hilton Foods Limited
PwC Waterfront Plaza,  
8 Laganbank Road,  
Belfast BT1 3LR,  
Northern Ireland
UK £1 Ordinary 100 –
Hilton Foods UK Limited UK £1 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Meats Holland Limited UK £1 Ordinary – 80
Hilton Food Group (Europe) Limited UK £1 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Food.com Limited UK £1 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Meats Zaandam BV Grote Tocht 31, 1507 CG Zaandam Netherlands €1,000 Ordinary – 80
Hilton Foods (Ireland) Limited Termonfeckin Road, Drogheda, Co Louth Ireland €1 Ordinary – 100
HFG Sverige AB Saltangsvagen 53, 721 32 Vasteras Sweden SEK 2,500 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Foods Danmark A/S Brunagervej 4, Kolt, 8361 Hasselager Denmark DKK 100 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Foods Ltd Sp z o.o. Ul Strefowa 31, 43-100 Tychy Poland PLN 500 Ordinary – 100
Hilton Foods Australia Pty Limited 3606/35 Queensbridge Street,  
Southbank, VIC 3006
Australia AUD 1 Ordinary – 100
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation. The Company’s voting rights in its subsidiary undertakings are the same 
as its effective interest in its subsidiary undertakings.
Investments in joint ventures
The Group uses the equity method of accounting for its interest in joint ventures. The aggregate movement in the Group’s 
investments in joint ventures is as follows:
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At the beginning of the year 2,396 1,234
Profit for the period 3,056 1,222
Dividends received (1,184) –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 579 (60)
At the end of the year 4,847 2,396
Where relevant, management accounts for the joint venture have been used to include the results up to 1 January 2017. The Group’s 
share of the net assets, income and expenses of the joint venture are detailed below:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Net assets 4,847 2,396
Income 4,366 1,711
Expenses – (1)
Taxation (1,310) (488)
Profit after tax 3,056 1,222
The joint venture of the Group is:
(%) Proportion of  
ordinary shares held by
Joint venture Registered address Country Share class Parent Group
Woolworths Meat Co. Pty Ltd 1 Woolworths Way, Bella Vista, NSW 2153 Australia AUD 1 Ordinary – 50
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance 85
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
16 Inventories
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 19,563 15,192
Finished goods and goods for resale 4,819 3,080
24,382 18,272
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £1,010,324,000 (2015: £894,822,000). 
The Group charged £17,000 in respect of inventory write-downs (2015: £289,000). The amount charged has been included in cost 
of sales in the income statement.
17 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Trade receivables 106,271 85,869 – –
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (183) (165) – –
Trade receivables – net 106,088 85,704 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 41 470
Amounts owed by related parties (see note 26) 69 605 – –
Other receivables 6,403 4,628 – –
Prepayments 6,048 5,158 – –
118,608 96,095 41 470
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Group Company
Currency
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
UK Pound 31,192 16,262 41 470
Euro 51,889 46,866 – –
Swedish Krona 21,863 19,033 – –
Danish Krone 10,636 9,464 – –
Polish Zloty 3,028 3,865 – –
Australian Dollar – 605 – –
118,608 96,095 41 470
The fair values of trade and other receivables are the same as their carrying value. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the fair 
value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
Trade receivables impaired and the amount of the impairment provision was £183,000 (2015: £165,000). The individually impaired 
receivables mainly relate to invoices which are in dispute. It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be 
recovered. The trade receivables that were impaired were all overdue by more than six months. There were no other trade receivables 
which were overdue. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The trade receivables which 
are not impaired or overdue are all less than 30 days old.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
At the beginning of the year 165 213
Provision for receivables impairment 63 136
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (65) (181)
Exchange differences 20 (3)
At the end of year 183 165 86
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
18 Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash at bank and on hand 59,304 52,806 208 150
19 Borrowings
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Current
Bank borrowings 9,348 11,562
Finance lease liabilities 219 166
9,567 11,728
Non-current
Bank borrowings 15,319 26,428
Finance lease liabilities 2,090 1,977
17,409 28,405
Total borrowings 26,976 40,133
Due to the frequent re-pricing dates of the Group’s loans, the fair value of current and non-current borrowings is approximate to their 
carrying amount.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
Currency
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
UK Pound 15,500 25,080
Euro 2,309 2,144
Swedish Krona 9,167 12,909
26,976 40,133
Borrowings are repayable in quarterly instalments by 2019. Interest on borrowings in Sterling is charged at LIBOR plus 1.6% subject 
to interest rate caps over £12m of borrowings where LIBOR is capped at 2.5%. Interest on borrowings in Swedish Krona is charged 
at STIBOR plus 1.6% subject to interest rate caps over SEK 75m of borrowings where STIBOR is capped at 3%.
Bank borrowings totalling £24,667,000 (2015: £37,990,000) are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of the individual 
Group borrowers and through joint and several guarantees from each active Group undertaking.
The Group has undrawn overdraft and loan borrowing facilities of £99.2m (2015: £28.3m) with the loan facilities expiring in 2022.
The undiscounted contractual maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings is described in note 3.
The minimum lease payments and present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
Minimum lease payments Present value
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
No later than one year 377 317 219 166
Later than one year and no later than five years 1,603 1,351 1,139 1,977
Later than five years 1,069 1,282 951 –
3,049 2,950 2,309 2,143
Future finance charges on finance leases (740) (807) – –
Present value of finance lease liabilities 2,309 2,143 2,309 2,143
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. The fair value of 
the Group’s finance lease liabilities is £2,956,000 (2015: £2,843,000). The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using the 
European Central Bank benchmark main refinancing operations fixed interest rate of 0% (2015: 0.05%). Strategic report Governance 87
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
20 Trade and other payables
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Trade payables 140,695 114,072 – –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 1,902 –
Social security and other taxes 3,747 3,567 – –
Accruals and deferred income 19,194 18,898 – –
163,636 136,537 1,902 –
The fair value of trade and other payables are the same as their carrying value.
21 Deferred income tax
Group
Accelerated 
capital allowances 
£’000
Other timing 
differences 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 29 December 2014 (1,391) 287 (1,104)
Exchange differences 52 – 52
Income statement credit 178 102 280
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes – 118 118
At 3 January 2016 (1,161) 507 (654)
Exchange differences (129) – (129)
Income statement credit/(charge) 470 (23) 447
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes – (111) (111)
At 1 January 2017 (820) 373 (447)
The following is the reconciliation of the deferred tax balances in the balance sheet:
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Deferred tax liabilities (1,505) (1,654)
Deferred tax assets 1,058 1,000
(447) (654)
Other timing differences principally relate to share-based payments. The deferred income tax liability above includes £130,000 
(2015: £150,000) which is estimated to reverse within 12 months. The deferred income tax asset above is not expected to reverse 
within 12 months.
22 Ordinary shares
Group Company
Number  
of shares 
(thousands)
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each
At 4 January 2016 72,863 7,286 7 ,259 7,286 7 ,259
Issue of new shares relating to employee incentive schemes 689 69 27 69 27
At 1 January 2017 73,552 7,355 7 ,286 7,355 7 ,286
All ordinary shares of 10p each have equal rights in respect of voting, receipt of dividends and repayment of capital. 88
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
23 Share-based payment 
Executive share option scheme
Under the Group’s executive share option scheme share options were granted to Executive Directors and to selected senior 
employees. The exercise price of the granted options was equal to the market price of the shares on the date of the grant. The options 
are exercisable starting three years from the grant date subject to the Group achieving its target growth in earnings per share over 
the period plus 3%. The options have a contractual option term of 10 years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to 
repurchase or settle the options in cash.
All employee sharesave scheme
These schemes are open to all eligible employees of the Group (including the Executive Directors) who make regular savings 
over a three year period. The exercise price of the granted options is equal to the market price of the shares on the date of the 
grant. The options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and must be exercised within six months thereafter. 
No performance conditions are attached to the options granted under the scheme.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan nil cost share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected senior 
employees. The options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date subject to the Group achieving a minimum earnings 
per share compound growth target. Awards will vest on a sliding scale with 10%-25% of the maximum award applied at the minimum 
EPS growth target of 5%-8% per year with the full award vesting where EPS growth is at least 10%-18% per year. The options have a 
contractual option term of 10 years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related exercise prices are as follows:
Executive share option Sharesave Long Term Incentive
Options 
(’000)
Exercise price 
(pence)
Options  
(’000)
Exercise price 
(pence)
Options  
(’000)
Exercise price 
(pence)
At 29 December 2014 1,170 216.56 431 463.54 2,389 –
Granted – – 348 420 577 –
Exercised (27 4) 198.28 – – – –
Lapsed – – (191) 460.27 (1,278) –
At 3 January 2016 896 222.16 588 438.83 1,688 –
Granted – – 176 496.25 541 –
Exercised (689) 216.18 (1) 460.25 – –
Lapsed – – (99) 444.23 (679) –
At 1 January 2017 207 242.02 664 470.90 1,550 –
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Number options
Expiry date Type of scheme Status
Exercise price 
(pence)
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
October 2017 Sharesave Not exercisable 460.25 231 254
December 2017 Sharesave Not exercisable 480.00 9 14
December 2018 Sharesave Not exercisable 420.00 264 320
December 2019 Sharesave Not exercisable 496.25 160 –
May 2018 Executive share option Exercisable 199.50 13 134
May 2019 Executive share option Exercisable 17 4.75 3 212
May 2020 Executive share option Exercisable 246.00 191 550
May 2023 Long Term Incentive Plan Lapsed nil cost – 657
April 2024 Long Term Incentive Plan Not exercisable nil cost 448 457
April 2025 Long Term Incentive Plan Not exercisable nil cost 569 574
April 2026 Long Term Incentive Plan Not exercisable nil cost 533 –
The fair value of options granted during 2016 determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model ranged from 79p to 510p per option. 
The significant inputs into the model were the exercise price shown above, volatility of 27% based on a comparison of similar listed 
companies, dividend yield of 3%, an expected option life of four years, and an annual risk-free interest rate of 0.74%. See note 8 for 
the total expense recognised in the income statement for share options granted to Directors and employees. Strategic report Governance 89
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Overview Financial statements
24 Cash generated from operations
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Profit before income tax 33,209 27 ,948
Finance costs – net 1,115 1,051
Operating profit 34,324 28,999
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Share of post tax profits of joint venture (3,056) (1,222)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17,258 16,884
Amortisation of intangible assets 2,448 2,479
Loss on disposal of non-current assets (75) 75
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes 1,874 750
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (4,250) 3,126
Trade and other receivables (9,824) 16,283
Prepaid expenses (889) (7 44)
Trade and other payables 11,960 (15,150)
Accrued expenses 296 (520)
Cash generated from operations 50,066 50,960
The parent company has no operating cash flows.
25 Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred is as follows:
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 1,526 2,547 – –
(b) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various properties under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and buildings Plant and equipment
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
No later than one year 6,669 5,658 1,320 1,001
Later than one year and no later than five years 12,567 12,518 2,028 1,828
Later than five years expiring 2022 to 2027 14,428 15,718 18 45
33,664 33,894 3,366 2,87 4 90
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
26 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party
The Directors do not consider there to be one ultimate controlling party. The companies noted below are all deemed to be related 
parties by way of common Directors. 
Sales made on an arm’s length basis on normal credit terms to related parties during the year were as follows:
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Hilton Food Solutions Limited 5,564 –
Woolworths Limited and subsidiaries – recharge of joint venture costs 1,010 1,581
Amounts owing from related parties at the year end were as follows:
Owed from related parties
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Hilton Food Solutions Limited 978 –
Woolworths Limited and subsidiaries 69 605
The Company’s related party transactions with other Group companies during the year were as follows:
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Hilton Foods Limited – dividend received 9,625 13,600
Hilton Foods Limited – interest expense – 56
Hilton Foods UK Limited – payment for group relief 11 30
At the year end £1,902,000 was owed to Hilton Foods Limited (2015: £439,000 owed by Hilton Foods Limited) and £41,000 
(2015: £30,000) was owed by Hilton Foods UK Limited.
Details of key management compensation are given in note 8.
27 Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Loans and receivables
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Assets as per balance sheet
Trade and other receivables 112,560 90,937
Cash and cash equivalents 59,304 52,806
171,864 143,7 43
Other financial liabilities  
at amortised cost
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Trade and other payables 159,889 132,970
Borrowings 26,976 40,133
186,865 173,103
In addition to the above, amounts owed to the Company by Group undertakings of £41,000 (2015: £30,000) are classified as ‘loans 
and receivables’ and amounts owed by the Company to Group undertakings of £1,902,000 (2015: £439,000 owed to the Company) 
are classified as ‘other financial liabilities at amortised cost’. Overview Financial statements Strategic report Governance 91
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
Legal advisor
Taylor Wessing LLP
5 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3TW
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Waterfront Plaza
8 Laganbank Road
Belfast
BT1 3LR
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Financial Public Relations
Citigate Dewe Rogerson Limited
3 London Wall Buildings
London
EC2M 5SY
Bankers 
Ulster Bank Limited
Donegall Square East
Belfast
BT1 5UB
Registered office
2-8 The Interchange
Latham Road
Huntingdon
Cambridgeshire
PE29 6YE
Advisors
Corporate brokers
Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited
One New Change
London
EC4M 9AF
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Registered office and advisors Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2016
Hilton Food Group plc 
2-8 The Interchange 
Latham Road 
Huntingdon 
Cambridgeshire 
PE29 6YE
www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com
