 HSBC Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
Connecting customers 
to opportunities  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
Contents / Highlights 
 
 
 Contents 
  
 Report of the Directors 
 Overview 
 Financial highlights ................................................................ 2
 Group Chairman’s Statement ................................................. 4
 Group Chief Executive’s Business Review ........................... 7
 Principal activities .................................................................. 10
 Business and operating models .............................................. 10
 Strategic direction .................................................................. 11
 Risk ........................................................................................ 12
 HSBC Values ......................................................................... 13
 Key performance indicators ................................................... 13
  
 Operating and Financial Review 
 Financial summary
1
 ................................................................ 16
 Global businesses
1
 ................................................................. 43
 Products and services ............................................................. 44
 Geographical regions
1
 ............................................................ 59
 Other information ................................................................... 94
 Risk
1
 ....................................................................................... 98
 Capital .................................................................................... 211
  
 Corporate Governance
1
 
 Corporate Governance Report ............................................... 218
 Biographies of Directors and senior management ................. 218
 Board of Directors .................................................................. 225
 Board committees ................................................................... 230
 Internal control........................................................................ 240
 Going concern basis................................................................ 243
 Employees .............................................................................. 243
  
 Directors’ Remuneration Report
1
 .......................... 256
  
 Financial Statements and Other Information 
 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities ............................... 275
 Independent Auditor’s Report ............................................... 276
  
 Financial Statements
1
 
 Financial statements ............................................................... 278
 Notes on the financial statements .......................................... 291
  
 Shareholder Information
1
 
 Shareholder information ........................................................ 414
 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements ..... 422
 Glossary .................................................................................. 423
 Index ....................................................................................... 432
  
 1 Detailed contents are provided on the referenced pages. 
  
  
  
  
  
This document comprises the Annual Report and Accounts 
2011 for HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. It 
contains the Report of the Directors and Financial 
Statements, together with the Independent Auditor’s 
Report thereon, as required by the UK Companies Act 
2006. The Annual Review 2011 of HSBC Holdings plc is 
published as a separate document. The Report of the 
Directors on pages 4 to 255 and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 256 to 274 have each been 
drawn up in accordance with the requirements of English 
law, and liability in respect thereof is also governed by 
English law. In particular, the liability of the Directors for 
these reports is solely to HSBC Holdings plc.  
Additional information, including commentary 
on 2010 compared with 2009, may be found in the 
Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission and available on www.hsbc.com and 
www.sec.gov.  
Certain defined terms 
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ 
means HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, 
‘us’ and ‘our’ refers to HSBC Holdings together with its 
subsidiaries. Within this document the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. When used in the terms 
‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total shareholders’ equity’, 
‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares and those preference shares classified as equity. 
The abbreviations ‘US$m’ and ‘US$bn’ represent millions 
and billions (thousands of millions) of US dollars, 
respectively. 
Financial statements 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the 
separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have 
been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and 
as endorsed by the European Union (‘EU’). EU-endorsed 
IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at 
any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been 
endorsed by the EU. At 31 December 2011, there were 
no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 
31 December 2011 affecting these consolidated and 
separate financial statements, and there was no difference 
between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by 
the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. 
Accordingly, HSBC’s financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2011 are prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency 
because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form 
the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our
business. Unless otherwise stated, the information 
presented in this document has been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs. 
When reference to ‘underlying’ or ‘underlying basis’ 
is made in tables or commentaries, comparative 
information has been expressed at constant currency 
(see page 16), eliminating the impact of fair value 
movements in respect of credit spread changes on HSBC’s 
own debt and adjusting for the effects of acquisitions and 
disposals of subsidiaries and businesses. A reconciliation 
of reported and underlying profit before tax is presented 
on page 17. 
  
   
1 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 
Who we are and what we do 
HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking and financial services organisations. With 
around 7,200 offices in both established and faster-growing markets, we aim to be 
where the growth is, connecting customers to opportunities, enabling businesses to 
thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people to fulfil their hopes 
and realise their ambitions.  
 
We serve around 89 million customers through our four global businesses: Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management, Commercial Banking, Global Banking and Markets, 
and Global Private Banking. Our network covers 85 countries and territories in six 
geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North 
Africa, North America and Latin America. Our aim is to be acknowledged as the 
world’s leading international bank. 
 
Listed on the London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda stock exchanges, 
shares in HSBC Holdings plc are held by over 220,000 shareholders in 132 countries 
and territories. 
 
 
 
 
Highlights 
• Profit before tax up 15% to US$21.9bn on a reported basis. 
• Underlying pre-tax profit down 6% to US$17.7bn. 
• Launched strategy to reshape the Group, improve returns and position for growth. 
• Strong performance in faster-growing regions, with revenue up 12% in Hong Kong, Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East and North Africa. 
• Record year in Commercial Banking with profit before tax of US$7.9bn, up 31%. 
• Achieved sustainable cost savings of US$0.9bn with a strong pipeline of further savings.  
• Dividends declared in respect of 2011 US$7.3bn or US$0.41 per ordinary share, up 14% on 
2010. 
• Core tier 1 capital ratio 10.1%, down from 10.5% in 2010, largely reflecting the introduction of 
Basel 2.5. 
 
 
Cover image 
A Chinese ship in Brazil’s largest port, Santos, illustrates the growing trade links between the two countries.  
China is today Brazil’s largest trading partner, with HSBC financing an increasing share of that trade.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview 
Financial highlights 
 
 
2 
Financial highlights 
Earnings per share  
US$0.92 – up 26% 
2010: US$0.73 
2009: US$0.34 
 
Dividends per ordinary share
1
  
US$0.39 
2010: US$0.34 
2009: US$0.34 
 
Net assets per share 
US$8.48 – up 7% 
2010: US$7.94 
2009: US$7.17 
     
For the year 
Profit before taxation  
US$21,872m – up 15% 
2010: US$19,037m  
2009: US$7,079m 
 
Underlying profit before taxation 
US$17,696m – down 6% 
2010: US$18,925m 
 
 
Total operating income  
US$83,461m – up 4% 
2010: US$80,014m 
2009: US$78,631m 
Net operating income before loan 
impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions  
US$72,280m – up 6% 
2010: US$68,247m 
2009: US$66,181m 
 
Profit attributable to the ordinary 
shareholders of the parent company  
US$16,224m – up 27% 
2010: US$12,746m 
2009: US$5,565m 
  
     
At the year-end 
Loans and advances to  
customers  
US$940bn – down 2% 
2010: US$958bn 
2009: US$896bn 
 
Customer accounts  
US$1,254bn – up 2% 
2010: US$1,228bn 
2009: US$1,159bn 
 
Ratio of customer advances to 
customer accounts 
75.0% 
2010: 78.1% 
2009: 77.3% 
Total equity  
US$166bn – up 7% 
2010: US$155bn 
2009: US$136bn 
 
Average total shareholders’ equity  
to average total assets 
5.6% 
2010: 5.5% 
2009: 4.7% 
 
Risk-weighted assets  
US$1,210bn – up 10% 
2010: US$1,103bn 
2009: US$1,133bn 
     
Capital ratios 
Core tier 1 ratio  
10.1% 
2010: 10.5% 
2009: 9.4% 
 
Tier 1 ratio  
11.5% 
2010: 12.1% 
2009: 10.8% 
 
Total capital ratio  
14.1% 
2010: 15.2% 
2009: 13.7% 
     
   
 
3 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Performance ratios 
Credit coverage ratios 
Loan impairment charges to  
total operating income 
13.8% 
2010: 16.9% 
2009: 31.7% 
 
Loan impairment charges to  
average gross customer advances 
1.2% 
2010: 1.5% 
2009: 2.8% 
 
Total impairment allowances to  
impaired loans at year-end 
42.3% 
2010: 43.0% (restated for change in 
disclosure policy – see page 105) 
     
Return ratios 
Return on average  
invested capital
2
 
10.2% 
2010: 8.7% 
2009: 4.1% 
 
Return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity
3
 
10.9% 
2010: 9.5% 
2009: 5.1% 
 
Post-tax return on  
average total assets 
0.6% 
2010: 0.6% 
2009: 0.3% 
 
Pre-tax return on average 
risk-weighted assets 
1.9% 
2010: 1.7% 
2009: 0.6% 
       
Efficiency and revenue mix ratios 
Cost efficiency ratio
4
 
57.5% 
2010: 55.2% 
2009: 52.0% 
 
Net interest income to  
total operating income 
48.7% 
2010: 49.3% 
2009: 51.8% 
 
Net fee income to  
total operating income 
20.6% 
2010: 21.7% 
2009: 22.5% 
 
Net trading income to  
total operating income 
7.8% 
2010: 9.0% 
2009: 12.5% 
       
Share information at the year-end 
   Closing market price 
US$0.50 ordinary 
shares in issue 
17,868m 
2010: 17,686m 
2009: 17,408m 
 
Market  
capitalisation 
US$136bn 
2010: US$180bn 
2009: US$199bn 
London 
£4.91 
2010: £6.51  
2009: £7.09 
 
Hong Kong 
HK$59.00 
2010: HK$79.70  
2009: HK$89.40 
 
American  
Depositary Share
5
 
US$38.10 
2010: US$51.04  
2009: US$57.09 
       
    Total shareholder return
6
 
   Over 1 year   Over 3 years   Over 5 years 
To 31 December 2011 ..............................................  
 79.1  96.8   78.2 
Benchmarks:       
– FTSE 100
7
 ...............................................................  97.8  140.3  107.9 
– MSCI World
7
 ..........................................................  95.7  129.4  114.9 
– MSCI Banks
7
 ..........................................................  82.7  107.5  60.5 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
4 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
Throughout its history HSBC has sought to facilitate 
economic growth, as it is through such growth that 
businesses flourish and individuals fulfil the 
aspirations they have for themselves and those close 
to them. The cover of this year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts illustrates a core element of HSBC’s 
strategic direction – that is connecting markets by 
providing the financing and risk management 
products that facilitate trade and investment flows. In 
so doing, we help our customers to achieve their 
growth ambitions and generate economic returns for 
savers and investors. 
The picture also illustrates the shift in emphasis 
towards the faster-growing markets that underpins 
HSBC’s investment priorities. The port is Santos in 
Brazil, which is the largest container port in South 
America; the ship is from China, delivering heavy 
machinery. The Brazil-China trade corridor has been 
one of the fastest growing over the last decade with a 
compound annual rate of growth of around 30%. 
China is now Brazil’s largest trade partner 
representing 18% of its total trade flows, versus 4% 
in 2000.  
HSBC entered Brazil in 1997 and since then has 
built its operations to generate pre-tax profits of 
US$1.2 billion in 2011, an increase of 19% over the 
prior year. We estimate that we finance over 6% of 
Brazil’s total trade and some 9% of its trade with 
China. In 2011 we were recognised as ‘Financial 
institution of the year’ by the Brazil-China Chamber 
of Commerce for having contributed most to the 
growth and development of the Brazil-China trade 
corridor. 
The purpose of the above introduction is to 
highlight the fact that, notwithstanding the major 
uncertainties and risks concentrating minds in the 
advanced economies of Europe and the US, there are 
still attractive growth opportunities to pursue where 
our international network and strong balance sheet 
provide distinctive advantages. 
Performance in 2011 
In 2011 in our heartland of Asia, throughout the 
Middle East and in Latin America we made good 
progress in developing customer business in line 
with the risk appetite endorsed by the Board. Largely 
driven by growth in lending in these faster-growing 
regions, our Commercial Banking business delivered 
a record performance. In Europe and the US we 
concentrated on supporting our core customer base, 
targeting trade services while constraining risk 
appetite within the financial sector. We also made 
significant further progress in working down our exit 
businesses in the US. The Group Chief Executive’s 
Review expands upon the execution of our strategy 
during 2011. 
The strong progress made on strategy execution 
was all the more marked when contrasted with the 
fragile confidence that pervaded the advanced 
economies of the world. Continuing uncertainties 
arising from the Eurozone debt crisis contributed to 
credit demand remaining muted in Europe, while US 
recovery lagged expectations held earlier in the year. 
As investors crowded into the safest asset classes, 
market activity levels dropped markedly and prices 
of securities outside the favoured asset classes 
weakened. These factors markedly reduced trading 
revenues in the second half of the year.  
Against the backdrop of the economic and 
financial market conditions described above, the 
Board considered the Group’s performance in 2011 
to be satisfactory in aggregate and strong in the 
faster growing markets. Earnings per share rose by 
26% to US$0.92 and the Board approved a fourth 
interim dividend of US$0.14 per ordinary share 
taking total dividends in respect of 2011 to US$0.41 
per share, an increase of US$0.05 per share or 14%. 
The Board confirmed its intention to continue to pay 
quarterly dividends during 2012 at the rate of 
US$0.09 per ordinary share in respect of each of the 
first three quarters, in line with 2011. 
Notably, the capital strengthening required by 
regulatory reform is being successfully delivered 
while maintaining the strongest dividend paying 
record of any bank outside mainland China. 
Total dividends declared during 2011 amounted 
to US$7.3 billion and in the last four years, that is 
since the financial crisis started, they have amounted   
5 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
to US$27.2 billion, making HSBC the second largest 
dividend payer in the FTSE100 during this period.  
Addressing a matter of public interest, the cost 
to shareholders of performance-related rewards 
made within our Global Banking and Markets 
business in 2011 and during the past four years 
amounted to some US$1 billion and US$4.7 billion, 
respectively. Pre-tax profit from Global Banking and 
Markets was, in aggregate, US$30 billion in the 
same four years, and represented the largest 
contribution, at 52%, of Group pre-tax profits during 
that period.  
At the end of 2011, total shareholders’ equity 
stood at US$159 billion, up 24% from its pre-crisis 
level of US$128 billion at the end of 2007. Over the 
same period, our balance sheet grew by only 9%. 
The core tier 1 ratio at the end of 2011 stood at 
10.1%, in line with our target range. 
As foreshadowed in last year’s Statement, the 
UK government proceeded with its plan to raise £2.5 
billion through a levy on the global balance sheets of 
UK domiciled banks. The cost to HSBC was 
US$570 million of which US$340 million related to 
non-UK banking activity. The levy, which is not tax 
deductible, is the equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary 
share and, as indicated last year, would otherwise be 
available for distribution to shareholders. 
Progress on regulatory reform 
A number of important milestones were passed 
during 2011 on the regulatory reform agenda. In the 
UK the Independent Commission on Banking 
(‘ICB’) delivered its report in September and the 
Government published its response in December. In 
the US, greater clarity on the Dodd-Frank legislation 
was delivered through a multitude of notices of 
proposed new regulation and four US financial 
regulatory agencies issued proposed uniform 
regulations that would implement the Volcker Rule, 
which aims to constrain major financial institutions 
from engaging in proprietary trading and most hedge 
fund and proprietary investment activities. The Basel 
Committee, in conjunction with the Financial 
Stability Board, set out its proposals to identify and 
increase capital requirements for Global 
Systemically Important Banks and most major 
jurisdictions published their proposals around 
recovery and resolution planning for major 
institutions. Europe continued to embed the Basel III 
proposals within a new draft Capital Requirements 
Directive (‘CRD IV’), the European Banking 
Authority formally came into existence as the hub of 
financial regulatory bodies in Europe and, in the UK, 
HM Treasury published its proposals for a new 
approach to financial regulation and the replacement 
of the FSA with a new supervisory structure, 
directed by the Bank of England.  
Many topics remain subject to further debate 
including cross-border resolution protocols, the 
governance and operation of central counterparties, 
the prospective role of clearing systems and 
exchanges, the calibration of the proposed new 
liquidity framework, the definition and operation 
of proposed proprietary trading restrictions, the 
possible harmonisation and peer review of the 
calculation of the risk weights that drive capital 
requirements, a re-assessment of the risk free 
treatment of sovereign debt and some 22 follow-on 
workstreams are ongoing in the wake of the UK 
Government’s response to the ICB Report.  
It is clear from the above that the industry will 
continue to bear a heavy burden of both time 
commitment and cost as it works with policy makers 
to finalise the regulatory reforms, including 
addressing the many inconsistencies within and 
extra-territorial dimensions of national rule-making. 
We are committed to all necessary constructive 
dialogue and support to speed the finalisation of 
these remaining issues. Our input will stress that 
it is critical that the reforms deliver a sustainable 
business model that can attract external economic 
capital. This is essential for the financial system to 
be able to contribute as fully as it should to the 
economic growth agenda which is being mandated 
by political leaders globally. 
Board changes 
We bid farewell at the upcoming AGM to two 
directors who have given huge service to HSBC over 
many years and who will not stand for re-election.  
Sir Brian Williamson has served on the Board 
of HSBC Holdings since 2002 and brought great 
insight and wisdom to the Board from a 
distinguished career in financial services, most 
notably in the areas of money and bond markets, 
clearing, exchanges and electronic trading platforms 
where he was a pioneer in establishing The London 
International Financial Futures and Options 
Exchange.  
Gwyn Morgan has served on the Board of 
HSBC Holdings since 2006 and before that on the 
Board of HSBC Canada for some nine years. His 
vast experience of leading large international 
companies in the engineering and energy sectors 
brought a balanced industrialist’s perspective to 
Board discussions and debate.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement / Group 
 
 
6 
We shall miss them both and thank them 
sincerely for their contributions over many years. 
We are delighted to welcome two new faces to 
the Board. Joachim Faber and John Lipsky will join 
the Board on 1 March.  
Joachim Faber stepped down from the 
Management Board of Allianz at the end of 2011 
where he served latterly as CEO of Allianz Global 
Investors one of the top five investment managers 
globally. He brings a wealth of experience from the 
perspective of the investor as well as in depth 
knowledge of banking, insurance, finance and capital 
markets from previous roles in a long and 
distinguished career. 
John Lipsky is one of the world’s best known 
and respected economists who most recently served 
as First Deputy Managing Director at the IMF from 
which he retired in November 2011. Over the last 
five years John has been one of the key links 
between macroeconomic policymakers and the 
financial community and brings to the Board an 
exceptional depth of knowledge and understanding 
of the macroeconomic and geopolitical issues that 
will shape the future of the global economy. 
Fuller details of their background and 
experience are set out in the Directors’ Report. 
Brand and reputation 
At HSBC we continue to think long-term as we build 
business platforms and relationships that will create 
options for value creation in generations to come. 
Tactically there are necessary difficult decisions 
to take in today’s subdued economic environment 
but these are always weighed against what is right 
for the long-term health of the business. Similarly 
when things go wrong, as they will from time to 
time, we judge ourselves, inter alia, against how we 
respond and how quickly we learn from the 
experience. Nothing is more important than our 
reputation.  
It was a moment of great pride within the 
organisation when we were judged to be the most 
valuable banking brand in the world in the recent 
Brand Finance
® 
Banking 500 2012 report. This is the 
4th time HSBC has headed the list in the last five 
years. This recognition is a testament to the work of 
all of my colleagues in building value for customers 
that translates to shareholder value.  
At the same time, however, we reflect that in 
2011 we continued to deal with legacy regulatory, 
legal and reputational issues which remind us that 
our good work can be destroyed by lapses of 
judgement or control. The settlement of claims 
around the historical selling of Payment Protection 
Insurance in the UK, the fine and compensation 
arising from the now closed NHFA business and 
ongoing regulatory and legal investigations in the 
US across a number of areas are all matters from 
which we need to learn to ensure they do not recur. 
The programme of values training which the Group 
Chief Executive is leading for all employees is but 
one measure to this end. We are truly sorry to all 
those who were adversely affected by our failings 
and to our shareholders for the reputational damage 
incurred. 
Looking ahead 
It is just over a year now since Stuart Gulliver and I 
took on our respective roles. During that time, the 
leadership team around Stuart has grown in stature 
and cohesion and is I believe among the best in our 
industry. That team is supported strongly by talented 
colleagues whose engagement and commitment to 
the strategic priorities laid out before them is evident 
and enthusiastic. On behalf of the Board I want to 
take this opportunity to thank them for their support 
and dedication. The uncertain economic and 
geopolitical backdrop will continue to raise 
challenges throughout 2012 and beyond. I am, 
however, confident that HSBC has the people, the 
financial strength and the right strategic focus and 
values to do well for those who place their trust in 
us, thereby meeting their expectations of us and 
contributing to the fulfilment of their aspirations and 
ambitions. That is what we exist to do. 
 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 
27 February 2012 
   
 
7 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Group Chief Executive’s  
Business Review 
 
2011 was a year of change for HSBC as we 
articulated a clear strategy to become the world’s 
leading international bank. We made significant 
progress in executing this strategy to reshape the 
Group and improve returns. First, we conducted a 
Group-wide portfolio review to improve our capital 
deployment and have now announced the disposal or 
closure of 16 non-strategic businesses during the 
year, and a further 3 in 2012. Second, we took action 
to improve our cost efficiency, achieving sustainable 
cost saving of US$0.9bn. Third, and most 
importantly, we continued to position the business 
for growth, increasing revenues in each of the 
world’s faster-growing regions, particularly in 
mainland China, India, Malaysia, Brazil and 
Argentina. Commercial Banking achieved record 
revenue and profits, helped by loan growth as well as 
growth in cross-selling from Global Banking and 
Markets. In Wealth Management we made modest 
progress towards our target of US$4bn of 
incremental revenue over the medium term. 
Executing our strategy is the primary lever to 
improve the Group’s performance. A substantial 
amount has been achieved during 2011 but this will 
be a long journey with significant headwinds, so we 
are increasing the intensity of execution in 2012. 
Group performance headlines 
• HSBC’s financial performance was resilient. 
• Reported profit before tax was US$21.9bn, up 
US$2.8bn on 2010, including US$3.9bn of 
favourable fair value movements on our own 
debt attributable to credit spreads, compared 
with a negative movement of US$63m in 2010. 
• Underlying profit before tax was US$17.7bn, 
down US$1.2bn on 2010 due to higher costs 
which were partly offset by a significant 
improvement in loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions. 
• We recorded a strong performance in each of 
the faster-growing regions. Underlying revenues 
grew in Rest of Asia-Pacific by 12%, in Hong 
Kong by 6% and in Latin America by 13%. The 
strong performance in these regions also led to 
record revenues in Commercial Banking. 
• We achieved strong revenue growth in key 
markets including mainland China, India, 
Malaysia, Brazil and Argentina, driving 
increases in profit before tax. 
• On an underlying basis, total revenues were 
broadly in line with 2010, despite the turmoil in 
the eurozone and its adverse effect on Credit and 
Rates revenue, combined with lower income in 
Balance Sheet Management and the continued 
reduction of our consumer finance portfolios in 
the US. 
• As the process of internationalising the renminbi 
continued, we strengthened our leadership 
position with a bond clearing licence in 
mainland China and as the market leader in the 
offshore ‘Dim Sum’ bond market. In addition, 
Commercial Banking and Global Banking and 
Markets successfully completed our first global 
US dollar-renminbi cross-currency swap and we 
extended our renminbi capability to over 50 
markets, across all continents.  
• Despite the eurozone sovereign debt concerns 
which dominated European market sentiment 
and depressed revenues in Global Banking and 
Markets, revenues grew strongly in over half of 
our business lines in Global Banking and 
Markets, including Equities and Foreign 
Exchange, and in Global Banking. This in part 
reflected the collaboration with Commercial 
Banking which has delivered more than 
US$500m in incremental revenues.  
• In Wealth Management we made modest 
progress towards our medium-term target of 
US$4bn incremental revenue, with revenue 
growth of some US$300m. Notably, we 
generated strong sales of insurance products in 
the Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, while revenue from distribution of 
investment products to our clients and Global 
Asset Management was broadly unchanged, 
reflecting difficult market conditions, 
particularly in the second half of the year.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
 
 
8 
• Costs rose by 10%, reflecting wage inflation 
in key markets and higher average full-time 
equivalent employee numbers for the year 
(although numbers have fallen since the first 
quarter), as well as an increase in significant 
items. These included restructuring costs 
(including the impairment of certain intangible 
assets) of US$1.1bn, UK customer redress 
programmes of US$898m and a bank levy 
introduced by the UK Government of 
US$570m, partly offset by a UK pension credit 
of US$587m. The rise in costs was partially 
offset by US$0.9bn in sustainable cost savings 
achieved so far in executing our strategy. 
• As a result of these factors, the cost efficiency 
ratio worsened from 55.2% to 57.5% on a 
reported basis, and from 55.6% to 61.0% on an 
underlying basis.  
• Our results continue to be adversely affected by 
the losses in the US consumer finance business, 
which, on an underlying basis, were US$2.4bn 
and US$2.2bn in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
We have agreed the sale of the profitable US 
Card and Retail Services portfolio with the 
remainder of the loss-making US consumer 
finance business being run down. 
• Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
was 10.9%, up from 9.5% in 2010, reflecting the 
favourable movement on the fair value of our 
own debt. 
• The Group’s pre-tax return on risk-weighted 
assets (‘RoRWA’) for 2011 was 1.9%, or 1.5% 
on an underlying basis. Adjusting for negative 
returns on US consumer finance business and 
legacy credit in Global Banking and Markets, 
the remainder of the Group achieved a RoRWA 
of 2.2% in 2011 and 2.3% in 2010. 
• Dividends declared in respect of 2011 totalled 
US$7.3bn, or US$0.41 per ordinary share, 
an increase of 14%, with a fourth interim 
dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary 
share. 
• The core tier 1 ratio was 10.1% at 31 December 
2011, down from 10.5% at 31 December 2010, 
reflecting an increase in risk-weighted assets 
(‘RWA’s) due to the introduction of Basel 2.5 in 
Global Banking and Markets and growth in 
lending balances including those classified as 
held for sale. The growth in RWAs was notably 
in Commercial Banking, which included an 
increase in the RWAs of our mainland China 
associates. 
• Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 
increased by 27% to US$16.2bn, of which 
US$7.3bn was declared in dividends in respect 
of the year. This compared with US$3.4bn of 
variable pay awarded (net of tax) to our 
employees for 2011. 
Progress on strategy 
There are two major trends which are key to HSBC’s 
future: the continuing growth of international trade 
and capital flows; and wealth creation, particularly in 
faster-growing markets. In May, we defined a new 
strategy for the Group to capitalise on these trends 
and connect customers to opportunities by building 
on our distinctive presence in the network of markets 
which generate the major trade and capital flows, 
capturing wealth creation in target markets and 
focusing on retail banking only where we can 
achieve profitable scale. 
In a difficult operating environment this strategy 
is key to improving our performance and we remain 
focused on delivering our targets of a return on 
average shareholders’ equity of 12-15% and a cost 
efficiency ratio of 48-52% by the end of 2013. We 
are executing the strategy by deploying capital more 
effectively, implementing measures to improve our 
cost efficiency and positioning the business for 
growth. We have made significant progress in all of 
these three areas. 
First, to ensure effective deployment of capital, 
we undertook a Group-wide review of our business, 
testing each part of the portfolio against our five 
filters framework. This looks at the strategic 
relevance of each country, and each business in each 
country, assessing their connectivity, economic 
development, profitability, cost efficiency and 
liquidity. As a result, we announced 16 disposals or 
closures in 2011 and a further 3 in 2012, including 
two large transactions in the US, the disposal of 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management operations 
in Russia, Chile and Thailand and the exit of 
operations in Poland and Georgia. When completed, 
these disposals and closures should represent a 
reduction of around US$50bn of risk-weighted assets 
and the transfer to the acquirers of approximately 
12,000 full-time equivalent employees. We are 
continuing this process in 2012 and have identified a 
number of further transactions. 
Second, to improve cost efficiency we achieved 
US$0.9bn of sustainable savings. Our programmes 
to implement consistent business models and 
restructure global businesses and global functions 
progressed well. We are creating a leaner Group, 
removing layers of management to give staff greater   
 
9 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
responsibility, improve decision making and reduce 
bureaucracy. We have identified a strong pipeline of 
further sustainable cost savings which we believe 
will deliver at the upper end of our target of US$2.5-
3.5bn of sustainable savings by 2013.  
Third, we continued to position the business for 
growth, as outlined in the performance headlines. 
We are increasing the intensity of strategy 
execution in 2012 and will provide a further update 
at our forthcoming Investor Strategy Day.  
Our purpose and values 
HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking 
and financial services organisations. We serve 
around 89 million customers and our network 
covers 85 countries and territories. With around 
7,200 offices in both established and faster-growing 
markets, we aim to be where the growth is, 
connecting customers to opportunities, enabling 
businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and 
ultimately helping people to realise their ambitions. 
We are putting a new emphasis on values at 
HSBC, so that our employees are empowered to do 
the right thing and to act with courageous integrity. 
We recognise that we have not always got this right 
in the past. The inappropriate advice given to 
customers of NHFA Limited was completely 
unacceptable. We are profoundly sorry about what 
happened and are committed to standing fully behind 
our customers. This case has reinforced our 
determination to address legacy issues in HSBC. 
Over the past year we have made our values 
more explicit to ensure we meet the expectations of 
society, customers, regulators and investors. Those 
values are that we are dependable, open to different 
ideas and cultures and connected to customers, 
communities, regulators and each other. We are 
ensuring that everyone who works for HSBC lives 
by these values and have made them a key part of 
every individual’s annual performance review. By  
setting the highest standards of behaviour our aim is 
that all of our employees and customers can be 
proud of our business. 
Outlook 
In 2012, notwithstanding the macroeconomic, 
regulatory and political uncertainties which we 
believe will persist, we expect continued strong 
growth in the dynamic markets of Asia, Latin 
America and the Middle East, although at a more 
moderate pace than in 2011, and that mainland 
China will achieve a soft landing. We believe that 
trade and capital flows between emerging areas of 
the world will also continue to grow, and could 
increase tenfold in the next 40 years. 
As these results demonstrate, HSBC is well-
positioned in the faster-growing markets and across 
international trade flows to benefit from these 
engines of global growth. 
In 2011 we generated a return on average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity of 10.9% compared 
with 9.5% in 2010. The strength of our position 
gives us confidence that by the end of 2012 we will 
have developed a clear trajectory towards meeting 
our target of 12-15% by the end of 2013. 
Finally, I am pleased to report we had good 
results in January. 
 
 
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2012 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Principal activities / Business and operating models / Strategic direction 
 
 
10 
Principal activities 
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial 
services organisations in the world, with a market 
capitalisation of US$136bn at 31 December 2011. 
We are headquartered in London. 
Our products and services are delivered to 
clients through four global businesses, Retail Banking 
and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’), Commercial 
Banking (‘CMB’), Global Banking and Markets 
(‘GB&M’), and Global Private Banking (‘GPB’).  
We operate through long-established businesses 
and have an international network of some 7,200 
offices in 85 countries and territories in six 
geographical regions; Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa 
(‘MENA’), North America and Latin America.  
Taken together, our five largest customers do 
not account for more than 1% of our income. We 
have contractual and other arrangements with 
numerous third parties in support of our business 
activities. None of the arrangements is individually 
considered to be essential to the business of the 
Group.  
Following a Group-wide review of our 
businesses, 16 disposals or closures were announced 
in 2011, and a further 3 in 2012. The most 
significant of these were the sales of 195 retail 
branches, primarily in upstate New York, our US 
Card and Retail Services portfolio and our 
businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras. 
For further information on these disposals, see page 
380.  
There were no significant acquisitions during 
the year.  
Business and operating models 
Business model  
We accept deposits and channel these deposits into 
lending activities, either directly or through the 
capital markets. We also offer a range of products 
and financial services including broking, 
underwriting and credit facilities, trade finance, 
credit cards, sales of insurance and investment 
products and funds under management. These 
banking and financial services are provided to a wide 
range of clients including governments, large and 
mid-market corporates, small and medium-sized 
enterprises (‘SMEs’), high net worth individuals, and 
mass affluent and retail customers.  
Our operating income is primarily derived from: 
• net interest income – interest income on 
customer loans and advances, less interest 
expense on interest bearing customer accounts 
and debt securities in issue; 
• net fee income – fee income earned from the 
provision of financial services and products to 
customers of our global businesses; and 
• net trading income – income from trading 
activities primarily conducted in Global 
Markets, including Foreign Exchange, Credit, 
Rates and Equities trading. 
Operating model  
HSBC has a matrix management structure which 
includes global businesses, geographical regions and 
global functions.  
Holding company 
HSBC Holdings plc, the holding company of the 
Group, has listings in London, Hong Kong, New 
York, Paris and Bermuda. HSBC Holdings is the 
primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries 
and provides non-equity capital to them where 
necessary.  
Under authority delegated by the Board of 
HSBC Holdings, the Group Management Board 
(‘GMB’) is responsible for management and day-to-
day running of the Group. The Board, together with 
GMB, ensures that there are sufficient cash resources 
to pay dividends to shareholders, interest to 
bondholders, expenses and taxes.  
HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding 
to any subsidiary, is not a lender of last resort and 
does not carry out any banking business in its own 
right. HSBC has a legal entity-based Group 
structure, sometimes referred to as subsidiarisation, 
which underpins our strong balance sheet and helps 
generate a resilient stream of earnings. 
Global businesses 
Our four global businesses are responsible for 
developing, implementing and managing their 
business propositions consistently across the Group, 
focusing on profitability and efficiency. They set 
their strategies within the confines of the Group 
strategy in liaison with the geographical regions, are 
responsible for issuing planning guidance regarding 
their businesses, are accountable for their profit and 
loss performance and manage their headcount.   
 
11 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Geographical regions 
The geographical regions share responsibility for 
executing the strategies set by the global businesses. 
They represent the Group to clients, regulators, 
employee groups and other stakeholders, allocate 
capital, manage risk appetite, liquidity and funding 
by legal entity and are accountable for profit and loss 
performance in line with the global business plans. 
Within the geographical regions, the Group is 
structured as a network of regional banks and locally 
incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is 
separately capitalised in accordance with applicable 
prudential reporting requirements and maintains a 
capital buffer consistent with the Group’s appetite 
for risk in its country or region. Each bank manages 
its own funding and liquidity within parameters set 
centrally, and is required to consider its risk appetite, 
consistent with the Group’s risk appetite for the 
relevant country or region. 
Global functions 
Our global functions are Communications, Company 
Secretaries, Corporate Sustainability, Finance, 
Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal, Marketing, 
Risk (including Compliance) and Strategy and 
Planning. They establish and manage all policies, 
processes and delivery platforms relevant to their 
activities, are fully accountable for their costs 
globally and are responsible for managing their 
headcount. 
Strategic direction 
Our strategy is aligned to two long-term trends: 
• Financial flows – the world economy is 
becoming ever-more connected. Growth in 
world trade and cross-border capital flows 
continues to outstrip growth of gross domestic 
product. Financial flows between countries and 
regions are highly concentrated. Over the next 
decade we expect 35 markets to represent 90% 
of world trade growth and a similar degree of 
concentration in cross-border capital flows. 
• Economic development – by 2050, we expect 
economies currently deemed ‘emerging’ to have 
increased five-fold in size, benefiting from 
demographics and urbanisation, and they will be 
larger than the developed world. By then, we 
expect 19 of the 30 largest economies will be 
markets that are currently described as emerging. 
HSBC is one of the few truly international 
banks and our advantages lie in our network of 
markets relevant for international financial flows, 
our access and exposure to high growth markets and 
businesses, and our strong balance sheet generating a 
resilient stream of earnings. 
Based on these long-term trends and our 
competitive position, our strategy has two parts: 
• Network of businesses connecting the world – 
HSBC is ideally positioned to capture the 
growing international financial flows. Our 
franchise puts us in a privileged position to 
serve corporate clients as they grow from small 
enterprises into large and international 
corporates, and personal clients as they become 
more affluent. Access to local retail funding and 
our international product capabilities allows us 
to offer distinctive solutions to these clients in a 
profitable manner.  
• Wealth management and retail with local scale – 
we will leverage our position in faster-growing 
markets to capture social mobility and wealth 
creation through our Wealth Management and 
Private Banking businesses. We will only invest 
in retail businesses in markets where we can 
achieve profitable scale. 
Implementing this strategy relies on actions 
across three areas: 
• Capital deployment (five filters) – we are 
improving the way we deploy capital as part of 
our efforts to achieve our targeted return on 
equity of between 12% and 15% over the 
business cycle. We have introduced a strategic 
and financial framework assessing each of our 
businesses on a set of five strategic evaluation 
criteria, namely international connectivity, 
economic development, profitability, cost 
efficiency and liquidity. The results of this 
review determine whether we invest in, turn 
around, continue with or exit businesses. 
• Cost efficiency (four programmes) – we have 
launched four programmes which we believe 
will achieve sustainable savings of between 
US$2.5bn and US$3.5bn by the end of 2013, 
resulting in a leaner and more values-driven 
organisation. These are: (i) implement consistent 
business models, (ii) re-engineer operational 
processes, (iii) streamline IT, and (iv) 
re-engineer global functions. Sustainable cost 
savings are intended to facilitate self-funded 
growth in key markets and investment in new 
products, processes and technology, and provide 
a buffer against regulatory and inflationary 
headwinds.  
• Growth – we continue to position ourselves for 
growth. We are increasing our relevance in fast-
growing markets and in wealth management,  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Risk / HSBC Values / KPIs 
 
 
12 
and are improving the collaboration between our 
international network of businesses, particularly 
between CMB and GB&M. 
If we are successful in executing this strategy, 
we will be regarded as ‘The world’s leading 
international bank’. We have defined financial 
targets to achieve a return on equity of between 12% 
and 15% with a core tier 1 ratio of between 9.5% and 
10.5%, and achieve a cost efficiency ratio of 
between 48% and 52%. We have also defined Key 
Performance Indicators to monitor the outcomes of 
actions across the three areas of capital deployment, 
cost efficiency and growth. 
Risk 
As a provider of banking and financial services, risk 
is at the core of our day-to-day activities. 
We have identified a comprehensive suite of 
risk factors which informs our assessment of our top 
and emerging risks. This assessment may result in 
our risk appetite being revised. 
Risk factors 
Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risk 
factors that could potentially affect our results of 
operations or financial condition. These are:
 
 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 
• Current economic and market conditions may adversely affect our results. 
• We have exposure to the ongoing economic crisis in the eurozone. 
• We are subject to political and economic risks in the countries in which we operate. 
• Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results. 
Macroprudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model 
• Our businesses are subject to wide-ranging legislation and regulation and to regulatory and governmental oversight. Unfavourable legislative 
or regulatory developments, or changes in the policy of regulators or governments, could have a significant adverse effect on our operations, 
financial condition and prospects. 
• The Independent Commission on Banking has published its final report on competition and possible structural reforms in the UK banking 
industry. The implementation of the recommendations included in the final report could have a material adverse effect on us. 
• We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, but 
unfavourable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and brand. 
• We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries in which we operate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 
Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems 
• Our risk management measures may not be successful. 
• Operational risks are inherent in our business. 
• Our operations are highly dependent on our information technology systems. 
• Our operations have inherent reputational risk. 
• We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct. 
• We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. 
• Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, could cause material misstatement of the results 
and financial position of the Group. 
• Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 
• We may not achieve all the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. 
Risks related to our business  
• We have significant exposure to counterparty risk within the financial sector and to other risk concentrations. 
• Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the value of our portfolios. 
• Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses. 
• Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings or any of their respective debt securities 
could increase our cost or availability of funding and adversely affect our liquidity position and interest margins. 
• Risks concerning borrower credit quality are inherent in our businesses. 
• Our insurance businesses are subject to risks relating to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance customer behaviour. 
• HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as a result, is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations including its 
obligations with respect to its debt securities, and to provide profits for payment of future dividends to shareholders. 
• We may be required to make substantial contributions to our pension plans.   
 
13 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Top and emerging risks 
We classify certain risks as ‘top’ or ‘emerging’. We 
define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk 
which has arisen across any of our risk categories, 
regions or global businesses and has the potential to 
have a material impact on our financial results or our 
reputation and the sustainability of our long-term 
business model, and which may form and crystallise 
within a one year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging 
risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes 
which may form and crystallise beyond a one year 
horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a 
material effect on our long term strategy. 
Our approach to identifying and monitoring top 
and emerging risks is informed by the risk factors. 
All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, 
the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risk or combinations of risks which 
we assess on a Group-wide basis. Top and emerging 
risks fall under the following three broad categories: 
• macro-economic and geopolitical risk; 
• macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to 
our business model; 
• risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems. 
During 2011 our senior management paid 
particular attention to a number of top and emerging 
risks which are summarised below: 
Macro-economic and geopolitical risk 
• Eurozone – risk of sovereign defaults  
• Eurozone member departing from the currency union 
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our 
business model 
• Regulatory developments affecting our business model and 
Group profitability 
• Regulatory investigations and requirements relating to 
conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting 
our results and brand 
• Dispute risk 
Risks related to our business operations, governance and 
internal control systems 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn 
• Internet crime and fraud 
• Social media risk 
• Level of change creating operational complexity and 
heightened operational risk 
• Information security risk 
All of the above risks are regarded as top risks 
with the exception of social media risk which is an 
emerging risk. 
A detailed account of these risks is provided on 
page 99. Further comments on expected risks and 
uncertainties are made throughout the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2011, particularly in the section on 
Risk, pages 98 to 210. 
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is a key component of our management 
of risk and describes the types and level of risk we 
are prepared to accept in delivering our strategy. It is 
discussed further on page 234. 
Our risk appetite may be revised in response to 
the top and emerging risks we have identified. 
HSBC V alues 
The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice 
is significant in the context of the financial services 
sector and the wider economy, particularly in the 
light of developments and changes in regulatory 
policy, investor confidence and society’s view of the 
role of banks. We expect our executives and 
employees to act with courageous integrity in the 
execution of their duties by being: 
• dependable and doing the right thing;  
• open to different ideas and cultures; and 
• connected with our customers, communities, 
regulators and each other. 
We continue to enhance our values-led culture 
by embedding HSBC Values into how we conduct 
our business and through the personal sponsorship 
of the Group Chief Executive and senior executives. 
These initiatives will continue in 2012 and beyond. 
Key performance indicators 
The Board of Directors and the GMB monitor HSBC’s 
progress against its strategic objectives. Progress is 
assessed by comparison with our strategy, our operating 
plan and our historical performance using both financial 
and non-financial measures. 
Following a review of our high-level key 
performance indicators (‘KPI’s) and reflecting the 
increased focus on the quality of the capital base, the 
GMB decided to adopt a core tier 1 capital ratio instead 
of a tier 1 capital ratio as the primary indicator of the 
strength of our capital base and its ability to support the 
growth of the business and meet regulatory requirements. 
The GMB remains focused on improving our capital 
deployment to support the achievement of our medium 
term target for return on equity of between 12 and 15%, 
utilising the five filter analysis across the portfolio of 
businesses. We will continue to evaluate our businesses 
in 2012 using this methodology. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
KPIs 
 
 
14 
 
Strategy  
 
Capital deployment – improving the way we deploy capital 
  
Return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity
3
 
Core tier 1 capital
8
 Advances to core funding ratio
9
 
15.9
4.7
5.1
9.5
10.9
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
8.1
7.0
9.4
10.5
10.1
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
101.0
70.3
89.1
99.8
75.0
85.7
86.4
105.0
55.5
85.9
103.0
98.3
HBEU HBAP HBUS Other
entities
2009 2010 2011
HBEU HBAP HBUS Other
entities
 
Measure: (percentage) profit attributable 
to shareholders divided by average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity. 
Measure: core tier 1 capital comprising 
shareholders’ equity and related non-
controlling interests less regulatory 
deductions and adjustments. 
Measure: loans and advances to customers 
as a percentage of the total of core 
customer deposits and term funding with a 
remaining term to maturity in excess of 
one year. 
 
Target: to maintain a return in the medium
term of between 12% and 15%.  
Target: to maintain a strong capital base to
support the development of the business 
and meet regulatory capital requirements at 
all times. 
Target: to maintain an advances to core 
funding ratio below limits set for each 
entity. Key Performance Indicators 
 
Outcome: return on average ordinary 
shareholders equity was below the target 
range, but 1.4 percentage points higher 
than 2010. 
Outcome: the decrease in core tier 1 
capital to 10.1% reflected an increase in 
RWAs due to a growth in lending 
balances, including those held for sale and 
an increase in the RWAs of our mainland 
China associates, as well as the 
introduction of Basel 2.5. 
Outcome: the strong funding position of 
HBAP has allowed us to take advantage of 
loan growth opportunities during the year, 
while reduced lending in the US resulted 
in further strengthening of our funding 
position. 
     
Strategy 
 
Cost efficiency – a lean and values-driven organisation 
 
Cost efficiency 
(2011: underlying cost efficiency 61%) 
Employee engagement 
 
49.4
60.1
52
55.2
57.5
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
60
67
71
63 63
64
65
67
75
77
74
72 72
68
69
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
HSBC – Actual
Financial Services Average
Global Best in Class
 Measure: (percentage) total operating expenses divided by net 
operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk 
provisions. 
Measure: (percentage) measure of employee’s emotional and 
rational attachment to HSBC, a combination of advocacy, 
satisfaction, commitment and pride. 
 Target: to be between 48% and 52%, a range within which 
business is expected to remain to accommodate both returns to 
shareholders and the need for continued investment in support of 
future business growth. 
Target: to achieve a 72% global rating in 2011, with progressive 
improvement to best in class. 
Key Performance Indicators 
 Outcome: on a reported and underlying basis the ratio was 
outside the target range, in part due to notable items including 
restructuring costs, customer redress programmes and a bank levy 
introduced by the UK government, but also due to an increase in 
staff costs reflecting wage inflation in key markets and higher 
average FTEs. 
Outcome: Employee engagement behind global best in class. 
Improvement in 2011 despite a challenging environment. 
   
 
15 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Growth – continue to position ourselves for growth 
 
Strategy 
Risk-adjusted revenue growth 
(2011: underlying growth 2%) 
 Basic earnings  
per ordinary share 
Dividends per ordinary  
share growth 
  
13
(8)
(30)
11
37
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
 
 
1.4
0.4
0.3
0.7
0.9
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
11
(47)
(29)
14
6
'07 '08 '09 '10 '11
 
 
Measure: (percentage) increase in reported
net operating income after loan impairment 
and other credit risk charges since last 
year. 
 Measure: (US$) level of basic earnings 
generated per ordinary share.  
Measure: (percentage) increase in 
dividends per share since last year, based 
on dividends paid in respect of the year to 
which the dividend relates. 
 
Target: to deliver consistent growth in risk
adjusted revenues. 
 Target: to deliver consistent growth in 
basic earnings per share. 
Target: to deliver sustained dividend per 
share growth. 
 
Outcome: reported risk-adjusted revenue 
increased primarily due to favourable 
movements on the fair value of own debt 
due to credit spreads and on an underlying 
basis due to lower loan impairment 
charges. 
 Outcome: Earnings per share (‘EPS’) 
increased in 2011 reflecting significant 
favourable movements on the fair value of 
own debt due to credit spreads which 
resulted in an increase in reported profits. 
Outcome: dividends per share increased 
by 14%. 
 
Key Performance Indicators 
   
Customer recommendation 
Brand value 
 
 
2011 2011
Target HSBC
75% 75%
35%
79%
RBWM CMB
 
1st place
US$25.4bn
2009 2010 2011 2012
1st place
US$28.5bn
3rd place
US$27.4bn
1st place
US$27.6bn
1st place
US$25.4bn
2009 2010 2011 2012
1st place
US$28.5bn
3rd place
US$27.4bn
1st place
US$27.6bn
 
Measure: we measure our customer satisfaction through an 
independent market research survey of retail banking and business 
banking customers in selected countries, using a specific metric 
of customer recommendation (the ‘CRI’) to score performance. 
We benchmark our performance against key competitors in each 
market and set targets for performance based on our peer group 
of banks. 
Measure: in 2011, we moved our brand measure to the Brand 
Finance valuation method as reported in The Banker Magazine. 
Our previous measure only gave us a score derived from a survey 
of our personal and small business customers. The Brand Finance 
methodology gives us a more complete measure of the strength of 
the brand and its impact across all business lines and customer 
groups. It is a wholly independent measure and is publicly 
reported. 
Target: the Group target is for 75% of all the selected markets 
(based on their weighted revenue) to meet their CRI targets. 
Target: a top 3 position in the banking peer group.  
Outcome: CMB Business Banking exceeded its target. RBWM 
experienced a challenging environment in many of its large retail 
markets, with strong local competition and negative reaction to 
some strategic portfolio management activity, and only met its 
target in 35% of the markets by weighted revenue. It got to within 
2 percentage points of its target in a further 44% of markets. See 
page 46 for further details. RBWM had a strong fourth quarter, 
with 77% of the markets meeting target and it finished the year 
ranked first in five of the six markets surveyed in Asia.  
Outcome: HSBC’s brand value in 2009 followed a sharp drop in 
industry brand values in 2008/9 which coincided with the 
financial crisis. The subsequent increase reflected a general rise 
in values, with HSBC’s brand remaining one of the strongest in 
the sector. 
 
Key Performance Indicators 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review 
Financial summary > Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax  
 
 
16 
Financial summary 
Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit  
before tax .................................................................... 16
Consolidated income statement ...................................... 18
Group performance by income and expense item .......... 20
Net interest income ..................................................... 20
Net fee income ............................................................ 22
Net trading income ..................................................... 23
Net income from financial instruments designated 
at fair value ............................................................
24
Gains less losses from financial investments ............. 25
Net earned insurance premiums ................................ 26
Other operating income ............................................. 26
 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders ......................................
27
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions ...............................................................
27
Operating expenses .................................................... 29
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ......... 31
Tax expense ................................................................ 31
Consolidated balance sheet ............................................. 32
Movement in 2011 ...................................................... 33
Economic profit/(loss) .................................................... 37
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures .............................. 37
Critical accounting policies ............................................ 38
 
The management commentary included in the Report of the Directors: ‘Overview’ and ‘Operating and Financial Review’, together with the 
‘Employees’ and ‘Corporate sustainability’ sections of ‘Corporate Governance’ and the ‘Directors’ Remuneration Report’ is presented in 
compliance with the IFRS Practice Statement ‘Management Commentary’ issued by the IASB.  
Reconciliation of reported and 
underlying profit before tax 
In addition to results reported on an IFRSs basis, we 
measure our performance internally on a like-for-like 
basis by eliminating the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences, acquisitions and disposals 
of subsidiaries and businesses, and fair value 
movements on own debt attributable to credit spread 
where the net result of such movements will be zero 
upon maturity of the debt; all of which distort year-
on-year comparisons. We refer to this as our 
underlying performance. 
Reported results include the effects of the above 
items. They are excluded when monitoring progress 
against operating plans and past results because 
management believes that the underlying basis more 
accurately reflects operating performance. 
Constant currency 
Constant currency comparatives for 2010 referred to in the 
commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars 
for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates: 
• the income statements for 2010 at the average rates of 
exchange for 2011; and 
• the balance sheet at 31 December 2010 at the prevailing 
rates of exchange on 31 December 2011. 
No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities 
into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. When reference is 
made to ‘constant currency’ in tables or commentaries, 
comparative data reported in the functional currencies of 
HSBC’s operations have been translated at the appropriate 
exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis 
described above. 
Underlying performance 
The following tables compare our underlying 
performance in 2011 and 2010 with reported profits 
in those years. Equivalent tables are provided for 
each of HSBC’s global businesses and geographical 
segments in the Form 20-F filed with the SEC, 
which is available on www.hsbc.com. 
The foreign currency translation differences 
reflect the relative weakening of the US dollar 
against most major currencies during 2011. 
The following acquisitions and disposals 
affected both comparisons:  
• the gain of US$62m on reclassification of Bao 
Viet Holdings (‘Bao Viet’) from an available-
for-sale asset to an associate in January 2010; 
• the gain of US$66m on sale of our stake in 
Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank in March 2010; 
• the gain of US$107m on disposal of HSBC 
Insurance Brokers Limited in April 2010; 
• the dilution gains which arose on our holding in 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, 
Limited (‘Ping An’) following the issue of share 
capital to third parties in May 2010 and June 
2011 of US$188m and US$181m, respectively; 
• the loss of US$42m on the sale of our 
investment in British Arab Commercial Bank 
plc in October 2010; 
• the gain of US$74m on the deconsolidation of 
private equity funds following the management 
buy-out of Headland Capital Partners Ltd 
(formerly known as HSBC Private Equity (Asia) 
Ltd) in November 2010; 
• the gain on the sale of Eversholt Rail Group in 
December 2010 (US$255m);   
 
17 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• the gain of US$83m on the sale of HSBC Afore 
S.A. de C.V. (‘HSBC Afore’) in August 2011; 
• a loss of US$48m being our share of the loss 
recorded by Ping An on remeasurement of its 
previously held equity interest in Shenzen 
Development Bank (‘SDB’) when Ping An took 
control and fully consolidated SDB in July 
2011; and 
• the dilution gain of US$27m in December 2011 
as a result of the merger between HSBC Saudi 
Arabia Limited and SABB Securities Limited. 
Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 
 2011 compared with 2010 
HSBC  
 2010 
 as 
 reported 
 US$m 
 2010 
 adjust- 
 ments
10
 US$m 
 Currency 
translation
11
 US$m 
 2010 
 at 2011
 exchange 
 rates
12
 US$m 
 2011
 as 
 reported 
 US$m 
 2011 
 adjust- 
 ments
10
 
 US$m   
 2011 
 under- 
 lying
 US$m 
 Re-
 ported 
 change
13
 % 
  
 Under-
 lying 
 change
13
 % 
Net interest income .......... 39,441  48 781 40,270 40,662 –  40,662  3 1 
Net fee income ................. 17,355  (55) 349 17,649 17,160 –  17,160  (1) (3)
Changes in fair value
14
 .... (63) 63 –  –  3,933 (3,933) –    
Other income
15
 ................. 11,514  (847) 284 10,951 10,525 (291) 10,234  (9) (7)
Net operating income
16
 .. 68,247  (791) 1,414 68,870 72,280 (4,224) 68,056  6 (1)
Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk 
provisions .................... (14,039) –  (206) (14,245) (12,127) –  (12,127) 14 15 
Net operating income .... 54,208  (791) 1,208 54,625 60,153 (4,224) 55,929  11 2 
Operating expenses .......... (37,688) 220 (842) (38,310) (41,545) –  (41,545) (10) (8)
Operating profit ............. 16,520  (571) 366 16,315 18,608 (4,224) 14,384  13 (12)
Income from associates ... 2,517  –  93 2,610 3,264 48  3,312  30 27 
Profit before tax ............. 19,037  (571) 459 18,925 21,872 (4,176) 17,696  15 (6)
          
By geographical region          
Europe .............................. 4,302  (88) 167 4,381 4,671 (2,947) 1,724  9 (61)
Hong Kong ...................... 5,692  (130) (10) 5,552 5,823 –  5,823  2 5 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ......... 5,902  (187) 227 5,942 7,471 (135) 7,336  27 23 
Middle East and  
North Africa ................ 892  42 (10) 924 1,492 (41) 1,451  67 57 
North America ................. 454  (208) 39 285 100 (970) (870) (78) 
Latin America .................. 1,795  –  46 1,841 2,315 (83) 2,232  29 21 
Profit before tax ............... 19,037  (571) 459 18,925 21,872 (4,176) 17,696  15 (6)
          
By global business          
Retail Banking and  
Wealth Management
17
 . 3,839  (3) 126 3,962 4,270 (83) 4,187  11 6 
Commercial Banking ....... 6,090  (119) 126 6,097 7,947 –  7,947  30 30 
Global Banking and 
Markets
17 
...................... 9,215  (262) 198 9,151 7,049 –  7,049  (24) (23)
Global Private Banking ... 1,054  –  6 1,060 944 –  944  (10) (11)
Other ................................ (1,161) (187) 3 (1,345) 1,662 (4,093) (2,431)  (81)
Profit before tax ............... 19,037  (571) 459 18,925 21,872 (4,176) 17,696  15 (6)
For footnotes, see page 95. 
Additional information is available on the HSBC website www.hsbc.com.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Consolidated income statement 
 
 
18 
Consolidated income statement 
Five-year summary consolidated income statement 
 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
2009 
US$m 
 2008 
US$m 
 2007
US$m 
Net interest income ....................................................................... 40,662 39,441 40,730 42,563 37,795 
Net fee income .............................................................................. 17,160 17,355 17,664 20,024 22,002 
Net trading income ....................................................................... 6,506 7,210 9,863 6,560 9,834 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............................................................ 3,439 1,220 (3,531) 3,852 4,083 
Gains less losses from financial investments ............................... 907 968 520 197 1,956 
Dividend income ........................................................................... 149 112 126 272 324 
Net earned insurance premiums ................................................... 12,872 11,146 10,471 10,850 9,076 
Gains on disposal of French regional banks ................................ – – – 2,445 – 
Other operating income ................................................................ 1,766 2,562 2,788 1,808 2,531 
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint 
ventures ............................................................................... 208 188 – – 1,092 
Other ......................................................................................... 1,558 2,374 2,788 1,808 1,439 
Total operating income .............................................................. 83,461 80,014 78,631 88,571 87,601 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders ................................................................................. (11,181) (11,767) (12,450) (6,889) (8,608)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges  
and other credit risk provisions ........................................... 72,280 68,247 66,181 81,682 78,993 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions .......... (12,127) (14,039) (26,488) (24,937) (17,242)
Net operating income ................................................................. 60,153 54,208 39,693 56,745 61,751 
Total operating expenses
19
 ............................................................ (41,545) (37,688) (34,395) (49,099) (39,042)
Operating profit .......................................................................... 18,608 16,520 5,298 7,646 22,709 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ............................ 3,264 2,517 1,781 1,661 1,503 
Profit before tax .......................................................................... 21,872 19,037 7,079 9,307 24,212 
Tax expense .................................................................................. (3,928) (4,846) (385) (2,809) (3,757)
Profit for the year ....................................................................... 17,944 14,191 6,694 6,498 20,455 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company ........... 16,797 13,159 5,834 5,728 19,133 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests ............................. 1,147 1,032 860 770 1,322 
      
Five-year financial information 
     
 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 
Basic earnings per share
20 
............................................................. 0.92  0.73 0.34  0.41  1.44 
Diluted earnings per share
20 
.......................................................... 0.91  0.72 0.34  0.41  1.42 
Basic earnings excluding goodwill impairment per share
19,20 
...... 0.92  0.73 0.34  1.19  1.44 
Dividends per ordinary share
1
 ...................................................... 0.39  0.34 0.34  0.93  0.87 
        
  %  %  %   %   % 
Dividend payout ratio
21
 ................................................................       
– reported ...................................................................................... 42.4  46.6 100.0  226.8  60.4 
– excluding goodwill impairment
19
 .............................................. 42.4  46.6 100.0  78.2  60.4 
Post-tax return on average total assets ......................................... 0.65  0.57 0.27  0.26  0.97 
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity ........................ 10.9  9.5 5.1  4.7  15.9 
   
Average foreign exchange translation rates to US$:   
US$1: £ ......................................................................................... 0.624  0.648 0.641  0.545  0.500 
US$1: € ......................................................................................... 0.719  0.755 0.719  0.684  0.731 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
Reported profit before tax of US$21.9bn in 2011 
was US$2.8bn higher than in 2010, primarily due to 
US$3.9bn of favourable fair value movements on 
own debt attributable to credit spreads compared with 
a negative movement of US$63m in 2010. On an 
underlying basis, profit before tax was 6% lower than 
in 2010 due to increased operating expenses which were   
 
19 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
partly offset by lower loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions.  
The results of the Group continued to be 
adversely affected by the losses in the US consumer 
finance business, which were US$2.4bn in 2011 and 
US$2.2bn in 2010. We have agreed to sell the 
profitable US Card and Retail Services portfolio, 
with the remainder of the loss-making US consumer 
finance business being run down. We expect the 
sales of this business to have a significant impact on 
both revenue and profitability in North America for 
the foreseeable future. 
The difference between reported and underlying 
results is explained on page 16. Except where stated 
otherwise, the commentaries in the Financial 
Summary are on an underlying basis and references 
to HSBC Finance Corporation (‘HSBC Finance’) and 
HSBC Bank USA N.A. (‘HSBC Bank USA’) are on 
a management basis, rather than a legal entity basis. 
Net operating income before loan impairment 
charges and other credit risk provisions (‘revenue’) 
was broadly in line with 2010, due to the adverse 
effect on GB&M revenue in Europe of the turmoil in 
the eurozone sovereign debt market and a decline in 
lending balances in RBWM in North America being 
offset by revenue growth in faster-growing regions. 
The eurozone turmoil resulted in lower trading 
income from our Credit and Rates businesses as 
problems escalated, particularly in the second half of 
2011. Our GB&M performance was also affected by 
lower revenues in Balance Sheet Management, as 
higher yielding positions matured and interest rates 
remained low, and in our legacy credit portfolio 
(see page 23). In North America, we continued 
to reposition our business and we remained focused 
on managing down our run-off portfolios. As a 
consequence, revenue fell, reflecting declining 
customer loan balances in the run-off portfolios 
and in the Card and Retail Services businesses.  
These factors were broadly offset by increased 
net interest income in CMB as a result of strong 
balance sheet growth in 2010 which continued into 
2011, albeit at a slower pace during the latter part of 
the year. Revenue also benefited from balance sheet 
growth in RBWM in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin 
America. There were also strong performances in 
over half of our business lines in GB&M, including 
Global Banking, Foreign Exchange and Equities, 
particularly in the faster growing regions of Rest of 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions were considerably lower than in 2010, 
with decreases across all regions except Latin 
America and Hong Kong. The most significant 
decline in loan impairment charges was in RBWM 
in North America, reflecting lower balances in our 
consumer finance portfolios and lower lending 
balances and improved credit quality in Card and 
Retail Services. There was also a notable decline in 
loan impairment charges in Europe, due to successful 
initiatives taken to mitigate risk within RBWM 
which resulted in a reduction in delinquency rates in 
personal lending in the UK. Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions fell in the Middle 
East in GB&M due to the non-recurrence of 
restructuring activity for a small number of large 
customers. In Latin America, loan impairment 
charges and other credit risk provisions increased as a 
result of strong lending growth in RBWM and CMB, 
along with a rise in delinquency rates in Brazil during 
the second half of 2011. 
Operating expenses were higher than in 2010, 
reflecting an increase in notable items and higher 
staff costs in faster-growing regions. Notable items 
included restructuring costs of US$1.1bn, a bank 
levy introduced by the UK government of US$570m, 
higher provisions relating to customer redress 
programmes of US$898m and US mortgage 
servicing costs of US$257m. The restructuring costs 
were incurred as a result of actions taken following 
the review of our capital deployment and operational 
effectiveness. This led to a reduction of more than 
7,600 FTEs during the second half of 2011 and 
sustainable savings of US$0.9bn. These notable 
items were partially offset by a credit of US$587m 
resulting from a change in the inflation measure used 
to calculate the defined benefit obligation of the 
HSBC Bank plc (‘HSBC Bank’) UK defined benefit 
plan for deferred pensions.  
Income from associates increased, mainly driven 
by strong results in our mainland China associates. 
The contribution from Bank of Communications Co., 
Limited (‘BoCom’) rose due to loan growth, wider 
deposit spreads and higher fee income. Our share of 
profits from Industrial Bank Co. Limited (‘Industrial 
Bank’) rose due to strong growth in customer lending 
and an increase in fee-based revenue. 
The reported profit after tax was US$3.8bn or 
26% higher, due to the increase in taxable profits, 
primarily from movements on the fair value of own 
debt and a lower tax expense. This reflected the 
inclusion in 2011 of a deferred tax benefit now 
eligible to be recognised in respect of foreign tax 
credits. In addition, the tax charge in 2010 included 
US$1.2bn attributable to a taxable gain from an 
internal reorganisation in North America. As a result 
of these factors, the effective tax rate for 2011 was 
18% compared with 25.5% in 2010.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance  
 
 
20 
Group performance by income and expense item 
Net interest income 
  2011  2010  2009 
  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Interest income ............................................................................................................. 63,005 58,345 62,096 
Interest expense ............................................................................................................ (22,343) (18,904) (21,366)
Net interest income
22
 .................................................................................................... 40,662 39,441 40,730 
Average interest-earning assets .................................................................................... 1,622,658 1,472,294 1,384,705 
Gross interest yield
23
 ..................................................................................................... 3.88%  3.96%   4.48% 
Less: cost of funds ........................................................................................................ (1.56%) (1.41%)   (1.58%)
Net interest spread
24
 ...................................................................................................... 2.32%  2.55%   2.90% 
Net interest margin
25
 ..................................................................................................... 2.51%  2.68%   2.94% 
Summary of interest income by type of asset 
 2011 2010  2009 
 
Average
balance
Interest
income Yield 
 Average
 balance
Interest
income Yield 
  Average 
 balance 
Interest
income Yield
 US$m US$m %  US$m US$m %   US$m US$m %
Short-term funds and loans and advances  
to banks .................................................... 261,749 5,860 2.24 236,742 4,555 1.92 
 
192,578 4,199 2.18 
Loans and advances to customers ............... 945,288 45,250 4.79 858,499 44,186 5.15  870,057 48,301 5.55 
Financial investments .................................. 384,059 10,229 2.66 378,971 9,375 2.47  322,880 9,425 2.92 
Other interest-earning assets
26
 ..................... 31,562 1,666 5.28 (1,918) 229 (11.94)  (810) 171 (21.11)
Total interest-earning assets ........................ 1,622,658 63,005 3.88 1,472,294 58,345 3.96  1,384,705 62,096 4.48 
Trading assets and financial assets 
designated at fair value
 27, 28
 ..................... 410,038 8,671 2.11 385,203 7,060 1.83 
 
419,647 8,646 2.06 
Impairment provisions ................................. (18,738) (22,905)   (26,308)  
Non-interest-earning assets ......................... 752,965 664,308   667,942  
Total assets and interest income .................. 2,766,923 71,676 2.59 2,498,900 65,405 2.62  2,445,986 70,742 2.89 
Summary of interest expense by type of liability and equity 
 2011 2010  2009 
 
Average
balance
Interest
expense Cost 
 Average
 balance
Interest
expense Cost 
  Average 
 balance 
Interest
expense Cost
 US$m US$m %  US$m US$m %   US$m US$m %
Deposits by banks
29
 ..................................... 106,099 1,591 1.50 111,443 1,136 1.02  117,847 1,659 1.41 
Financial liabilities designated at fair  
value – own debt issued
30
 ........................ 73,635 1,313 1.78 66,706 1,271 1.91 
 
60,221 1,558 2.59 
Customer accounts
31
 .................................... 1,058,326 13,456 1.27 962,613 10,778 1.12  940,918 11,346 1.21 
Debt securities in issue ................................ 181,482 5,260 2.90 189,898 4,931 2.60 225,657 5,901 2.62 
Other interest-bearing liabilities .................. 14,024 723 5.16 8,730 788 9.03  8,640 902 10.44 
Total interest-bearing liabilities ................... 1,433,566 22,343 1.56 1,339,390 18,904 1.41  1,353,283 21,366 1.58 
Trading liabilities and financial liabilities 
designated at fair value (excluding own 
debt issued) .............................................. 355,345 4,564 1.28 275,804 3,780 1.37 
 
221,358 4,280 1.93 
Non-interest bearing current accounts ......... 162,369 142,579   123,271  
Total equity and other non-interest bearing 
liabilities .................................................. 815,643 741,127  748,074  
Total equity and liabilities ........................... 2,766,923 26,907 0.97 2,498,900 22,684 0.91 2,445,986 25,646 1.05 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
Net interest income was US$40.7bn, 3% higher than 
in 2010. On an underlying basis, net interest income 
was broadly in line with the previous year, as the 
benefit to income from continued strong growth in 
average interest-earning balances was largely offset 
by a decline in spreads.  
Average loans and advances to customers grew 
strongly in 2011, reflecting targeted lending growth 
during 2010 and the first half of 2011 in CMB and   
 
21 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
GB&M, as well as strong mortgage lending growth 
in our RBWM businesses in the UK, Hong Kong and 
Rest of Asia-Pacific throughout both years. During 
the year, we announced the sale of 195 non-strategic 
branches and our Cards and Retail Services business 
in the US, and reclassified the related loans and 
advances to customers to other assets held for sale, 
reported within ‘Other interest-earning assets’. This, 
together with the continued decline in the consumer 
finance portfolios in run-off, partly offset the rise in 
average lending balances in other regions.   
The benefit to interest income of the strong 
customer lending volume growth was offset in part 
by a reduction in gross yields from loans and 
advances to customers. This reflected the transfer of 
balances to assets held for sale, including higher 
yielding unsecured lending, the continued decline 
within the US consumer finance portfolios and the 
repositioning of RBWM towards higher quality 
secured lending, particularly mortgages, together 
with intense competition in certain markets. 
Interest income from short-term funds and loans 
and advances to banks also increased, attributable to 
higher average balances with central banks. This 
reflected higher deposit requirements by central 
banks in certain markets, together with the placement 
of excess liquidity in Asia with central banks. 
Interest income from short-term funds and loans and 
advances to banks, as well as financial investments, 
also benefited from higher yields as interest rates 
rose, particularly in mainland China, India and 
Brazil. 
Interest income from other interest earning 
assets rose as a result of the reclassification of assets 
held for sale and the related income. 
The rise in interest income was largely offset 
by higher interest expense. This was driven by a 
significant increase in average customer account 
balances in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and 
Europe as a result of targeted deposit campaigns. 
The cost of funds also rose as a result of base rate 
increases, notably in mainland China, India and 
Brazil, and competitive pricing to attract and retain 
deposits in many markets.  
The increase in interest expense on deposits 
by banks was driven by a rise in the cost of funds in 
Europe, reflecting the maturity of derivatives used to 
hedge interest rate risk and their replacement at 
lower prevailing interest rates.  
The interest expense on own debt designated at 
fair value also rose, reflecting the volume of new 
issuances during the year. Although the average 
balance of debt securities in issue declined due to 
maturities not being replaced in North America and 
Europe, the related interest expense increased as a 
result of a general widening of credit spreads in the 
financial sector. 
‘Net interest income’ includes the expense of 
internally funding trading assets, while related 
revenue is reported in ‘Net trading income’. The 
internal cost of funding these assets rose due to the 
increase in average trading assets during the year. In 
reporting our global business results, this cost is 
included within ‘Net trading income’.  
The decrease in the net interest spread compared 
with 2010 was attributable to lower yields on loans 
and advances to customers as we continued to target 
higher quality assets, coupled with a rising cost of 
funds on customer accounts. Our net interest margin 
also fell, but by a lesser amount, due to the benefit 
from net free funds. This benefit rose as a result of 
the increase in the Group’s cost of funds, coupled 
with higher third party funding of our trading book, 
in line with the growth of trading assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance 
 
 
22 
Net fee income 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Cards ............................................................................................................................. 3,955 3,801 4,625 
Account services ........................................................................................................... 3,670 3,632 3,592 
Funds under management ............................................................................................. 2,753 2,511 2,172 
Credit facilities ............................................................................................................. 1,749 1,635 1,479 
Broking income ............................................................................................................ 1,711 1,789 1,617 
Imports/exports ............................................................................................................. 1,103 991 897 
Insurance ....................................................................................................................... 1,052 1,147 1,421 
Remittances .................................................................................................................. 770 680 613 
Global custody .............................................................................................................. 751 700 988 
Unit trusts ..................................................................................................................... 657 560 363 
Underwriting ................................................................................................................. 578 623 746 
Corporate finance ......................................................................................................... 441 440 396 
Trust income ................................................................................................................. 294 291 278 
Investment contracts...................................................................................................... 136 109 97 
Mortgage servicing ....................................................................................................... 109 118 124 
Taxpayer financial services .......................................................................................... 2 73 87 
Maintenance income on operating leases ..................................................................... –  99 111 
Other ............................................................................................................................. 1,766 1,918 1,797 
Fee income .................................................................................................................... 21,497 21,117 21,403 
Less: fee expense .......................................................................................................... (4,337) (3,762) (3,739)
Net fee income .............................................................................................................. 17,160 17,355 17,664 
 
Reported net fee income was broadly in line with 
2010. Reported results in 2010 included revenue 
from Eversholt Rail Group and HSBC Insurance 
Brokers Ltd. These items are excluded from our 
underlying results which declined by 3%. This was 
mainly due to increased fee expenses in North 
America and the impact of discontinuing certain 
business operations.  
Fee expenses increased in North America, 
reflecting higher ‘revenue-share’ payments to our 
credit card partners as improved portfolio 
performance resulted in increased cash flows. Fee 
expenses also rose in Latin America, reflecting 
increased transaction volumes, and in Europe, 
notably in GB&M, which benefited from higher 
recoveries from the securities investment conduits in 
2010. 
Card-related income was higher, led by growth 
in Hong Kong due to higher transaction volumes, 
driven by increased retail spending and customer 
promotions, and in Europe due to increased 
interchange commissions from higher volumes and 
rates. 
Fee income from unit trusts increased due to 
higher transaction volumes, notably in Hong Kong, 
reflecting increased product offerings, competitive 
pricing and successful sales activity as clients sought 
to maximise returns in the low interest rate 
environment. However, broking income was lower, 
primarily in Hong Kong due to increased competition 
in the territory during the second half of the year. 
Remittances and trade-related fee income 
increased, notably in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, 
due to higher trade and transaction volumes as we 
targeted asset growth and trade activity in the region, 
supported by marketing activities, customer 
acquisition and a rise in transactions from existing 
customers. 
The negligible income from Taxpayer Financial 
Services in the US during 2011 resulted from the 
decision to exit the business. 
We expect the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business to have a significant impact on 
both fee income related to cards and insurance, and 
fee expenses.   
 
23 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net trading income 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Trading activities .......................................................................................................... 4,873 5,708 5,312 
Net interest income on trading activities ...................................................................... 3,223 2,530 3,627 
Other trading income – hedge ineffectiveness:    
– on cash flow hedges .............................................................................................. 26 (9) 90 
– on fair value hedges .............................................................................................. (224) 38 (45)
Non-qualifying hedges ................................................................................................. (1,392) (1,057) 951 
Losses on Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC fraud .................................. – – (72)
Net trading income
32,33
 .................................................................................................. 6,506 7,210 9,863 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
Reported net trading income was US$6.5bn, 10% 
lower than in 2010. On an underlying basis, net 
trading income declined by 15%, driven by 
significantly lower net income from trading activities 
in GB&M as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt 
markets escalated, particularly in the second half 
of 2011. Increased risk aversion and limited client 
activity led to a significant widening of spreads on 
certain eurozone sovereign and corporate bonds, 
resulting in trading losses in our European Credit and 
Rates businesses. 
Net trading income also declined from our 
legacy credit portfolio, a separately identifiable, 
discretely managed business comprising Solitaire 
Funding Limited, the securities investment conduits, 
the asset-backed securities trading portfolios and 
credit correlation portfolios, derivative transactions 
entered into directly with monoline insurers, and 
certain other structured credit transactions. This 
reflected the non-recurrence of the price appreciation 
during the previous year and lower holdings as a 
result of maturities and disposals aimed at reducing 
capital consumption, coupled with the non-
recurrence of an US$89m gain from a 2010 legal 
settlement relating to certain loans previously 
purchased for resale from a third party.  
In addition, lower favourable foreign exchange 
movements were reported on trading assets held as 
economic hedges of foreign currency debt designated 
at fair value. These offset lower adverse foreign 
exchange movements on the foreign currency debt 
which are reported in ‘Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’. 
Notwithstanding the difficult trading conditions, 
there were strong performances across other parts 
of GB&M. Rates trading revenues in Hong Kong, 
North America and Latin America remained resilient 
as client flows increased. Fair value gains on 
structured liabilities also increased, mainly in Rates, 
as credit spreads widened more significantly than in 
2010, resulting in a gain of US$458m compared with 
US$23m in 2010. 
Our Foreign Exchange business benefited from 
increased activity from both Global Banking and 
CMB customers, particularly in Hong Kong, Rest 
of Asia-Pacific, North America and Latin America, 
coupled with an improved trading environment 
compared with 2010. The latter reflected market 
volatility caused by geopolitical tensions, ongoing 
eurozone sovereign debt concerns and interventions 
by central banks. Equities revenues also rose as 
investment in platforms improved our competitive 
positioning and helped capture increased client 
flows, notably in the first half of the year in Europe 
and Hong Kong. 
In addition to the decline in net income from 
trading activities in GB&M, we reported adverse fair 
value movements on derivatives relating to certain 
legacy provident funds in Hong Kong as long-term 
investment returns fell. This was offset in part by a 
reduction in the loss provisions for mortgage loan 
repurchase obligations associated with loans 
previously sold in RBWM in North America, which 
decreased by US$341m to US$92m.  
There were adverse fair value movements on 
non-qualifying hedges. These are derivatives 
entered into as part of a documented interest rate 
management strategy for which hedge accounting 
was not, or could not be, applied. They are 
principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps 
used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued 
by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by 
HSBC Finance. The size and direction of the changes 
in fair value of non-qualifying hedges that are 
recognised in the income statement can be volatile 
from year to year, but do not alter the cash flows 
expected as part of the documented interest rate 
management strategy for both the instruments and 
the underlying economically hedged assets and 
liabilities. The adverse fair value movement on non-
qualifying hedges in North America was higher in 
2011 as long-term US interest rates declined to a 
greater extent than in 2010. This was partly offset by 
lower adverse fair value movements on these  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance 
 
 
24 
instruments in Europe. 
Ineffectiveness in the hedging of available-for-
sale investment portfolios resulted in adverse 
movements on fair value hedges. This was due to 
growth in the underlying investment portfolio in 
Europe as a result of new purchases and a more 
pronounced decline in yield curves in North America 
than in 2010. 
Net interest income earned on trading activities 
rose by 23%, driven by an increase in average 
holdings and higher yields on our trading portfolio. 
This was partly offset by higher interest expense on 
trading liabilities reflecting an increase in funding 
requirements in line with the growth in average 
trading assets. The cost of internally funding these 
assets also rose, but this interest expense is reported 
within ‘Net interest income’. 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Net income/(expense) arising from:    
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and  
investment contracts ............................................................................................. (933) 2,349 3,793 
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts ............................................. 231 (946) (1,329)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives ....................................... 4,161 (258) (6,247)
Change in own credit spread on long-term debt ............................................. 3,933 (63) (6,533)
Other changes in fair value
34
 ........................................................................... 228 (195) 286
–  other instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives ...................... (20) 75 252 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value ................ 3,439 1,220 (3,531)
Assets and liabilities from which net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value arose  
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Financial assets designated at fair value at 31 December ............................................ 30,856 37,011 37,181 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value at 31 December ...................................... 85,724 88,133 80,092 
Including:    
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under:    
– insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF
35
 .................................... 7,221 7,167 6,097 
– unit-linked insurance and other insurance and investment contracts ................... 20,033 19,725 16,982 
Long-term debt issues designated at fair value ............................................................ 73,808 69,906 62,641 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The accounting policies for the designation of 
financial instruments at fair value and the treatment 
of the associated income and expenses are described 
in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, 
respectively.  
The majority of the financial liabilities designated 
at fair value relate to certain fixed-rate long-term 
debt issues whose rate profile has been changed to 
floating through interest rate swaps as part of a 
documented interest rate management strategy. The 
movement in fair value of these long-term debt 
issues includes the effect of our credit spread 
changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic 
relationship between the related swaps and own debt. 
As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting 
profits or losses, respectively, are booked. The size 
and direction of the changes in the credit spread on 
our debt and ineffectiveness, which are recognised in 
the income statement, can be volatile from year to 
year, but do not alter the cash flows envisaged as part 
of the documented interest rate management strategy. 
As a consequence, fair value movements arising 
from changes in our own credit spread on long-term 
debt and other fair value movements on the debt and 
related derivatives are not regarded internally as part 
of managed performance and are therefore not 
allocated to customer groups, but are reported in 
‘Other’. Credit spread movements on own debt are 
excluded from underlying results, and related fair 
value movements are not included in the calculation 
of regulatory capital.  
We reported net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value of US$3.4bn 
in 2011 compared with US$1.2bn in 2010. This 
included the credit spread-related movements in the 
fair value of our own long-term debt, on which we 
reported favourable fair value movements of 
US$3.9bn in 2011 and adverse movements of 
US$63m in 2010. These favourable fair value 
movements arose in 2011 as credit spreads widened,   
 
25 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
in comparison with smaller favourable fair value 
movements in North America and adverse fair value 
movements in Europe, both in 2010.  
On an underlying basis, which excludes credit 
spread-related movements in the fair value of our 
own long-term debt, the equivalent figures were net 
expense of US$494m in 2011 and net income of 
US$1.3bn in 2010. Net expense arising from 
financial assets held to meet liabilities under 
insurance and investment contracts reflected net 
investment losses in 2011 as a result of adverse 
movements in equity markets, primarily in Europe 
and Hong Kong, compared with net investment gains 
experienced during 2010. This predominantly 
affected the value of assets held to support unit-
linked contracts in the UK and Hong Kong, 
insurance contracts with discretionary participation 
features (‘DPF’) in Hong Kong, and investment 
contracts with DPF in France.  
The investment gains or losses arising from 
equity markets resulted in a corresponding 
movement in liabilities to customers, reflecting the 
extent to which unit-linked policyholders, in 
particular, participate in the investment performance 
of the associated asset portfolio. Where these relate 
to assets held to back investment contracts, the 
corresponding movement in liabilities to customers is 
also recorded under ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’. This is in 
contrast to gains or losses related to assets held to 
back insurance contracts or investment contracts with 
DPF, where the corresponding movement in 
liabilities to customers is recorded under ‘Net 
insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities 
to policyholders’. 
Within net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value were lower adverse foreign 
exchange movements than in 2010 on foreign 
currency debt designated at fair value issued as part 
of our overall funding strategy, with an offset from 
trading assets held as economic hedges reported in 
‘Net trading income’. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Net gains/(losses) from disposal of:    
– debt securities ........................................................................................................ 712 564 463 
– equity securities ..................................................................................................... 360 516 407 
– other financial investments ................................................................................... 12 (7) 8 
 1,084 1,073 878 
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities ....................................................... (177) (105) (358)
Gains less losses from financial investments ............................................................... 907 968 520 
 
Reported gains less losses from financial investments 
decreased by US$61m to US$907m. On an 
underlying basis, excluding an accounting gain of 
US$62m arising from the reclassification of Bao Viet 
as an associate in 2010, they declined by 4%. 
The reduction was principally driven by lower 
net gains from the disposal of available-for-sale 
equity securities, as deterioration in market 
confidence resulted in fewer disposal opportunities 
and lower gains from the sale of private equity 
investments, notably in Europe. We also recognised a 
gain on disposal in 2010 of an equity investment in a 
Singaporean property company which did not recur. 
This was partly offset by a gain on sale of shares in a 
Mexican listed company. 
Impairments of available-for-sale equity 
securities rose, due to write downs of our equity 
investments in real estate companies, reflecting a 
decline in property values in 2011. 
Net gains from the disposal of available-for-sale 
debt securities increased in Europe and North 
America following sales of government bonds and 
mortgage-backed securities by Balance Sheet 
Management as part of normal portfolio management 
activities. However, this was offset in part by lower 
net gains in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific on 
the disposal of government debt securities in 2011.  
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance  
 
 
26 
Net earned insurance premiums 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Gross insurance premium income ................................................................................ 13,338 11,609 10,991 
Reinsurance premiums ................................................................................................. (466) (463) (520)
Net earned insurance premiums ................................................................................... 12,872 11,146 10,471 
 
Net earned insurance premiums which relate to 
insurance and investment contracts with DPF 
increased by 15% on a reported basis and by 13% on 
an underlying basis, primarily driven by strong sales 
in the Hong Kong life insurance business and also in 
Latin America. This reflected the strategic focus of 
the Group on wealth management, of which 
insurance is a key part. 
In Hong Kong, sales of deferred annuities, unit-
linked products and a universal life product targeted 
at high net worth individuals all rose, coupled with 
higher levels of renewals from a larger in-force book 
of business due to an increased demand for wealth 
products. Sales of a universal life insurance product 
targeted at high net worth individuals were also 
higher in Rest of Asia-Pacific, notably in Singapore, 
driven by successful sales initiatives.  
In Latin America, net earned premiums also 
grew strongly due to a rise in contributions from 
unit-linked, life and credit protection products 
in Brazil, reflecting investment in the distribution 
network. This was supported by higher premiums 
from the motor insurance business in Argentina as a 
result of volume growth and repricing initiatives. 
In Europe, net earned premiums decreased 
resulting from the non-renewal and transfer to third 
parties of certain contracts in our Irish business as 
well as the continued run-off and subsequent disposal 
of the motor business in the UK during 2011. 
This was partly offset by premium growth in 
both France, on investment contracts with DPF as a 
result of targeted sales campaigns aimed at high-net 
worth clients, and the UK, on unit-linked products 
due to increased distribution channels.  
Other operating income 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Rent received ................................................................................................................ 217 535 547 
Gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale ......................................................... 55 (263) (115)
Valuation gains/(losses) on investment properties ....................................................... 118 93 (24)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and  
non-financial investments ........................................................................................ 57 701 1,033 
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures .................... 208 188 – 
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business ............................. 726 705 605 
Other ............................................................................................................................. 385 603 742 
Other operating income ................................................................................................ 1,766 2,562 2,788 
 
Reported other operating income of US$1.8bn 
decreased by US$796m in 2011. Reported results in 
2011 included a gain of US$181m arising from a 
dilution of our holding in Ping An following its 
issue of share capital to a third party and a gain of 
US$83m from the sale of HSBC Afore, our Mexican 
pension administration business. We also reported a 
dilution gain of US$27m as a result of the reduction 
in our holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited 
following its merger with SABB Securities Limited. 
Income in 2010 included a gain of US$188m 
following the dilution of our holding in Ping An 
along with gains from the sale of HSBC Insurance 
Brokers (US$107m), the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade 
Bank (US$66m), Eversholt Rail Group (US$255m) 
and HSBC Private Equity (Asia) Ltd (US$74m), 
partly offset by a loss of US$42m on the disposal of 
our shareholding in British Arab Commercial Bank 
plc. 
On an underlying basis, excluding the items 
referred to above, other operating income decreased 
by US$71m compared with 2010. Lower losses on 
assets held for sale driven by the non-recurrence of 
the US$207m loss on the sale of the US vehicle 
finance servicing operation in 2010 and associated 
loan portfolio were more than offset by the non-
recurrence of gains of US$250m on the sale and 
leaseback of our Paris and New York headquarters in 
2010, which exceeded gains recorded in 2011 on the 
sale of buildings including US$61m from the sale 
and leaseback of branches in Mexico.  
Favourable net movements in the present value 
of in-force (‘PVIF’) long-term insurance business   
 
27 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
compared with 2010 were driven by a one-off gain of 
US$243m recognised upon the refinement of the 
calculation of the PVIF asset to bring greater 
comparability and consistency across our insurance 
operations, and strong sales of life insurance 
products, notably in Hong Kong and Singapore. 
Largely offsetting this was a net decrease from 
experience and assumption updates and a higher 
unwind of cash flows from the growing in-force 
book. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders  
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders:    
–  gross ...................................................................................................................... 11,631 11,969 12,560 
–  reinsurers’ share ................................................................................................... (450) (202) (110)
–  net
36
 ....................................................................................................................... 11,181 11,767 12,450 
For footnote, see page 95. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders decreased by 5% on a 
reported basis and by 7% on an underlying basis, 
driven by investment losses on insurance assets, 
notably in Europe and Hong Kong. 
In France, the UK and Hong Kong we 
experienced a reduction in the movement in 
liabilities to policyholders resulting from a fall in 
fair value of the assets held to support policyholder 
funds, particularly in relation to unit-linked insurance 
contracts and investment and insurance contracts 
with DPF, as a result of equity market falls.  
The gains or losses experienced on the financial 
assets designated at fair value held to support 
insurance contract liabilities and investment contracts 
with DPF are reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’.  
Further declines in the movement in liabilities to 
policyholders resulted from the non-renewal and 
transfer to third parties of certain contracts in our 
Irish businesses as well as the continued run-off and 
subsequent sale of the motor business in the UK 
during 2011. 
Reductions in the movement in liabilities to 
policyholders were partly offset by additional 
liabilities established for new business premiums 
written, notably in Hong Kong, Brazil, France, the 
UK and Singapore, which are consistent with 
increases in net earned premiums. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Loan impairment charges 
New allowances net of allowance releases .............................................................. 12,931 14,568 25,832 
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ......................................................... (1,426) (1,020) (890)
 11,505 13,548 24,942 
Individually assessed allowances ................................................................................. 1,915 2,625  4,458
Collectively assessed allowances ................................................................................. 9,590 10,923  20,484
Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities .......................................................... 631 472 1,474 
Other credit risk provisions/(recoveries) ...................................................................... (9) 19 72 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions .......................................... 12,127 14,039 26,488 
  %  %   % 
–  as a percentage of net operating income excluding the effect of fair value 
movements in respect of credit spread on own debt and before loan  
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ............................................... 17.7%  20.6   36.4 
Impairment charges on loans and advances to customers as a percentage of 
gross average loans and advances to customers ...................................................... 1.2%  1.5   2.8 
 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions were US$12.1bn, a decline of 14% 
compared with 2010 on a reported basis and 15% 
on an underlying basis. 
At 31 December 2011, the aggregate balance 
of customer loan impairment allowances was 
US$17.5bn, representing 1.9% of gross loans and 
advances to customers (net of reverse repos and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance  
 
 
28 
settlement accounts) compared with 2.2% at 
31 December 2010. 
In 2011, loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions declined in all regions except 
Latin America and Hong Kong. The reduction was 
most significant in our consumer finance portfolios 
in HSBC Finance in North America, which 
contributed 66% of the reduction, reflecting lower 
lending balances in the run-off portfolio along with a 
reduction in lending balances and lower delinquency 
rates as our Card and Retail Services customers 
focused on repayments. In Latin America, principally 
Brazil, and also in Hong Kong, collective loan 
impairment allowances rose as we grew our lending 
book on the back of strong economic growth and 
increased customer demand.  
During 2011, we reported US$631m of 
impairments related to available-for-sale debt 
securities, compared with US$472m in 2010. In 
2011, we recognised a charge of US$212m to write 
down to market value available-for-sale Greek 
sovereign debt now judged to be impaired following 
the deterioration in Greece’s fiscal position. This was 
partly offset as losses arising in underlying collateral 
pools generated lower charges on asset-backed 
securities. 
In our US run-off portfolios, loan impairment 
charges of US$5.0bn were 14% lower than in 2010. 
The decline was mainly in our Consumer and 
Mortgage Lending (‘CML’) portfolio, driven by the 
reduction in customer lending balances, in part offset 
by higher loan impairment allowances reflecting a 
rise in the estimated cost to obtain collateral as well 
as delays in the timing of expected cash flows, both 
the result of the industry-wide delays in foreclosure 
processing. 
In the third quarter of 2011, loan impairment 
charges in the CML portfolio increased markedly as 
delinquency worsened compared with the first half of 
2011. In addition, we increased our loan impairment 
allowances to reflect a rise in the expected cost to 
obtain and realise collateral following delays in 
foreclosure processing. Despite a decline in loan 
impairment charges in the fourth quarter, these 
factors contributed significantly to a rise in the 
Group’s loan impairment charges in the second half 
of 2011 compared with the first half of the year.  
In Card and Retail Services, loan impairment 
charges fell by 26% to US$1.6bn reflecting lower 
lending balances and improved delinquency rates as 
customer repayment rates remained strong during 
2011. 
In CMB, loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions in North America declined in 
both Canada and the US reflecting improved credit 
quality, and in Canada this was also due to lower 
lending balances. These declines were partly offset 
by a loan impairment charge on a commercial real 
estate lending exposure.  
The reduction in loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions in North America was 
partly offset by an increase in GB&M, reflecting 
lower releases of collective loan impairment 
allowances compared with 2010. In addition, 2011 
included a loan impairment charge associated with a 
corporate lending relationship. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions in Europe fell by 20% to US$2.5bn, 
notably in the UK. The reduction was mainly in our 
RBWM business where loan impairment charges 
declined by 53% to US$596m despite the difficult 
economic climate and continued pressures on 
households’ finances. Delinquency rates declined 
across both the secured and unsecured lending 
portfolios, reflecting improvement in portfolio 
quality and the continued low interest rate 
environment as well as successful actions taken to 
mitigate credit risk and proactive account 
management. In CMB, loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions were 7% lower, mainly in 
the UK. This was partly offset by an increase in 
individually assessed loan impairment charges in 
Greece as economic conditions worsened. 
In GB&M in Europe, loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions increased by 8% as 
we recorded an impairment of US$145m to write 
down to market value available-for-sale Greek 
sovereign debt now judged to be impaired following 
the deterioration in Greece’s fiscal position. Further 
information on our exposures to countries in the 
eurozone is provided in ‘Areas of special interest – 
wholesale lending’ on page 112. 
In the Middle East and North Africa, loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
fell by 53% to US$293m, primarily due to a marked 
decline in loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions in our GB&M business. This 
reflected the non-recurrence of individually assessed 
loan impairment charges recorded in the first half of 
2010 related to restructuring activity for a small 
number of large corporate customers in the United 
Arab Emirates (‘UAE’). In RBWM, loan impairment 
charges declined by 45%, due to significantly 
improved delinquency rates reflecting a repositioning 
of the loan book towards higher quality lending as   
 
29 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
we continued to manage down unsecured lending, 
together with impaired collections practices. 
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions declined by 42% 
to US$267m, driven by reductions in India and 
Singapore. The marked decline in India reflected 
an improvement in delinquency, particularly in the 
unsecured portfolios as lending balances were 
managed down. In GB&M, loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions declined by 58%, 
mainly in Singapore, due to a reduction in 
individually assessed loan impairment charges.  
In Latin America, loan impairment charges 
increased by 17% to US$1.9bn. In Brazil, loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
rose by 43% to US$1.4bn due to a rise in collective 
loan impairment allowances in both RBWM and 
CMB following the strong growth in our customer 
lending balances and a rise in delinquency rates in 
the second half of 2011. In addition, we recognised 
a significant individually assessed loan impairment 
charge related to a commercial customer. The 
increase in Brazil was partly offset by a 28% decline 
in loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions in Mexico. This was mainly in our 
RBWM business due to lower balances in our credit 
card portfolio as certain higher risk portfolios were 
run-down and both credit quality and collections 
improved. 
In Hong Kong, loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions increased by 36% to 
US$156m. In CMB, higher loan impairment charges 
included a specific impairment charge related to a 
single customer, as well as higher collectively 
assessed charges reflecting growth in lending 
balances. In GPB, loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions also increased, reflecting an 
impairment of available-for-sale Greek sovereign 
debt. 
Operating expenses 
2011 2010  2009 
US$m US$m  US$m 
By expense category 
Employee compensation and benefits .......................................................................... 21,166 19,836 18,468 
Premises and equipment (excluding depreciation and impairment) ............................ 4,503 4,348 4,099 
General and administrative expenses ........................................................................... 12,956 10,808 9,293 
Administrative expenses ............................................................................................... 38,625 34,992 31,860 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment ................................. 1,570 1,713 1,725 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets ....................................................... 1,350 983 810 
Operating expenses ....................................................................................................... 41,545 37,688 34,395 
    
Included in the above are the following notable cost items:    
Restructuring costs (including impairment of assets)................................................... 1,122 154 301 
UK customer redress programmes ............................................................................... 898 78 – 
UK bank levy ................................................................................................................ 570 – – 
Payroll tax ..................................................................................................................... (13) 324 – 
US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs ............................................................... 257 – – 
UK pension credit ......................................................................................................... (587) – (499)
US accounting gain on change in staff benefits ........................................................... – (148) – 
Deferred variable compensation awards – accelerated amortisation ........................... 163 – – 
Staff numbers (full-time equivalents) 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010  2009 
Europe ........................................................................................................................... 74,892 75,698 76,703 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................... 28,984 29,171 27,614 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ...................................................................................................... 91,051 91,607 87,141 
Middle East and North Africa ...................................................................................... 8,373 8,676 8,281 
North America .............................................................................................................. 30,981 33,865 35,458 
Latin America ............................................................................................................... 54,035 56,044 54,288 
Staff numbers ................................................................................................................ 288,316 295,061 289,485 
Operating expenses increased by 10% to US$41.5bn 
on a reported basis. On an underlying basis, costs 
increased by 8% compared with 2010, driven by a 
higher amount of notable items in 2011 as listed in 
the table above and a rise in staff costs, primarily in 
faster growing regions. Notable items included  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance  
 
 
30 
restructuring costs, provisions relating to customer 
redress programmes in the UK, including a charge in 
respect of the possible mis-selling of Payment 
Protection Insurance (‘PPI’) in previous years, the 
UK bank levy and a new provision for US mortgage 
foreclosure and servicing costs. These were partially 
offset by a credit resulting from a change in the 
inflation measure used to calculate the defined 
benefit obligation in the UK for deferred pensions 
and the non-recurrence of the 2010 payroll and bonus 
taxes in the UK and France. 
Salaries and wages rose, primarily driven by 
wage inflation in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Hong 
Kong and union-agreed salary increases in Latin 
America.  
The growth in business volumes, primarily in 
Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, 
was supported by a small rise in average staff 
numbers (expressed as FTEs) which grew marginally 
in 2011. Staff costs also rose due to higher 
amortisation charges for previous years’ restricted 
and performance share awards and an acceleration in 
the expense recognition for deferred bonus awards of 
US$163m, in line with regulatory and best practice 
guidance (see page 327). Otherwise, performance-
related costs were lower than in 2010, primarily in 
GB&M where net operating income declined. 
During the year, we incurred US$1.1bn of 
restructuring costs including US$542m which were 
staff related and US$325m of impairment of certain 
software projects now deferred or cancelled. 
During 2011, we began a Group-wide review of 
our organisational effectiveness. We achieved 
US$0.9bn of sustainable savings in 2011, 
approximately one third of our objective of 
US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn over three years. We started 
implementing consistent business models in RBWM 
and CMB and undertook a detailed review of 
our head offices. In addition, we began the re-
engineering of our global functions, we commenced 
the streamlining of our IT function including the 
consolidation of some data centres and other 
services, and we re-engineered a number of 
customer-facing and back-office processes leading to 
a more efficient use of our corporate real estate. 
This resulted in a net reduction of staff numbers 
of more than 7,600 during the second half of 2011 
despite continuing to recruit selectively in our target 
growth areas.  
The savings achieved by delivering on these 
programmes enabled the funding of investment in 
strategic initiatives, including the development of 
Prime Services and equity market capabilities and 
the expansion of the Rates and Foreign Exchange 
e-commerce platforms in Europe, and the recruitment 
of additional front office staff in selected markets. 
Costs increased due to a rise in compliance costs 
in GB&M and litigation expenses in RBWM, both 
predominantly in the US. However, marketing costs 
fell in North America and Latin America as 
discretionary costs were tightly controlled. 
Cost efficiency ratios
4
 
 2011
% 
2010 
% 
 2009
% 
HSBC ........................................................................................................................... 57.5  55.2    52.0 
Geographical regions      
Europe .......................................................................................................................... 70.4 67.9    59.4 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................... 44.5 43.4    41.7 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ...................................................................................................... 54.2 55.7    55.6 
Middle East and North Africa ...................................................................................... 44.5 44.7    38.6 
North America .............................................................................................................. 55.7 48.8    51.5 
Latin America ............................................................................................................... 63.3 65.7    59.6 
Global businesses      
Retail Banking and Wealth Management
17
 .................................................................. 63.2  58.1   52.3 
Commercial Banking ................................................................................................... 46.3  49.4   46.4 
Global Banking and Markets
17
 ..................................................................................... 57.0  48.8   37.5 
Global Private Banking ................................................................................................ 68.8  65.8   60.5 
For footnote, see page 95.   
 
31 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 
 2011
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Associates    
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ................................................................... 1,370 987 754 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ....................................... 946 848 551 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited .................................................................................... 471 327 216 
The Saudi British Bank ............................................................................................ 308 161 172 
Other ......................................................................................................................... 126 156 42 
Share of profit in associates .......................................................................................... 3,221 2,479 1,735 
Share of profit in joint ventures .................................................................................... 43 38 46 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ............................................................ 3,264 2,517 1,781 
The reported share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures was US$3.3bn, an increase of 30% 
compared with 2010. On an underlying basis, which 
excludes the re-measurement loss relating to Ping 
An’s acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank, 
the share of profits from associates increased by 
27%. This was driven mainly by higher contributions 
from our mainland China associates. 
Our share of profits from BoCom rose, driven 
by strong loan growth, wider spreads following 
benchmark interest rate rises by the People’s Bank of 
China and effective re-pricing. Fee-based income 
also increased due to the continued development of 
investment banking services as well as increased 
credit card spending. The contribution from 
Industrial Bank rose as a result of continued growth 
in customer lending, higher fee income and a fall in 
loan impairment charges.  
Profits from Saudi British Bank increased, 
driven by a decline in loan impairment charges as the 
credit environment improved in Saudi Arabia and 
due to good cost control. 
Higher profits from Ping An resulted from 
strong growth in sales in the insurance business and 
higher income from the banking business following 
the acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank in 
July 2011. 
Tax expense 
 2011 
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009 
US$m 
Profit before tax ............................................................................................................ 21,872 19,037 7,079 
Tax expense .................................................................................................................. (3,928) (4,846) (385)
Profit after tax ............................................................................................................... 17,944 14,191 6,694 
Effective tax rate ........................................................................................................... 18.0%  25.5%   5.4% 
 
Our reported tax expense decreased by US$0.9bn 
compared with 2010. The lower tax charge reflected 
the benefit of a deferred tax credit of US$0.9bn now 
eligible to be recognised in respect of foreign tax 
credits in the US. In addition, the tax charge in  
2010 included US$1.2bn attributable to a taxable 
gain from an internal reorganisation in our North 
American operations. The resulting reported 
effective tax rate for 2011 was 18% compared 
with 25.5% in 2010.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated balance sheet 
 
 
32 
Consolidated balance sheet 
Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet and selected financial information 
 At 31 December 
 2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
2009 
US$m 
 2008 
US$m 
 2007
US$m 
ASSETS        
Cash and balances at central banks .............................................. 129,902 57,383 60,655 52,396 21,765 
Trading assets ............................................................................... 330,451 385,052 421,381 427,329 445,968 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................................... 30,856 37,011 37,181 28,533 41,564 
Derivatives .................................................................................... 346,379 260,757 250,886 494,876 187,854 
Loans and advances to banks ....................................................... 180,987 208,271 179,781 153,766 237,366 
Loans and advances to customers
37
 .............................................. 940,429 958,366 896,231 932,868 981,548 
Financial investments ................................................................... 400,044 400,755 369,158 300,235 283,000 
Assets held for sale ....................................................................... 39,558 1,991 3,118 2,075 2,804 
Other assets ................................................................................... 156,973 145,103 146,061 135,387 152,397 
Total assets ................................................................................... 2,555,579 2,454,689 2,364,452 2,527,465 2,354,266 
      
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY      
Liabilities      
Deposits by banks ......................................................................... 112,822 110,584 124,872 130,084 132,181 
Customer accounts ........................................................................ 1,253,925 1,227,725 1,159,034 1,115,327 1,096,140 
Trading liabilities .......................................................................... 265,192 300,703 268,130 247,652 314,580 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................................. 85,724 88,133 80,092 74,587 89,939 
Derivatives .................................................................................... 345,380 258,665 247,646 487,060 183,393 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................. 131,013 145,401 146,896 179,693 246,579 
Liabilities under insurance contracts ............................................ 61,259 58,609 53,707 43,683 42,606 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale .................................. 22,200 86 3 – – 
Other liabilities ............................................................................. 111,971 109,868 148,411 149,150 113,432 
Total liabilities .............................................................................. 2,389,486 2,299,774 2,228,791 2,427,236 2,218,850 
      
Equity      
Total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ 158,725 147,667 128,299 93,591 128,160 
Non-controlling interests .............................................................. 7,368 7,248 7,362 6,638 7,256 
Total equity ................................................................................... 166,093 154,915 135,661 100,229 135,416 
Total equity and liabilities ............................................................ 2,555,579 2,454,689 2,364,452 2,527,465 2,354,266 
      
Five-year selected financial information 
  
Called up share capital .................................................................. 8,934 8,843 8,705 6,053 5,915 
Capital resources
38,39,40
 .................................................................. 170,334 167,555 155,729 131,460 152,640 
Undated subordinated loan capital ............................................... 2,779 2,781 2,785 2,843 2,922 
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital
41
 .......... 49,438 54,421 52,126 50,307 49,472 
      
Risk-weighted assets and capital ratios
38,39
      
Risk-weighted assets .................................................................... 1,209,514 1,103,113 1,133,168 1,147,974 1,123,782 
    
 
 
  
  %  %  %   %   % 
Core tier 1 ratio ............................................................................. 10.1  10.5  9.4   7.0   8.1 
Total capital ratio .......................................................................... 14.1  15.2  13.7   11.4   13.6 
      
Financial statistics      
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of  
customer accounts .................................................................... 75.0  78.1  77.3 
 
 83.6   89.5 
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets .......... 5.64  5.53  4.72   4.87   5.69 
        
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end
42
 (US$) ............... 8.48  7.94  7.17   7.44   10.72 
Number of US$0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions) .............. 17,868 17,686 17,408 12,105 11,829 
     
Closing foreign exchange translation rates to US$:        
US$1: £ ......................................................................................... 0.646  0.644  0.616   0.686   0.498 
US$1: € ......................................................................................... 0.773  0.748  0.694   0.717   0.679 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 281.    
 
33 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Movement in 2011 
Total reported assets were US$2.6 trillion, 4% 
higher than at 31 December 2010. Excluding the 
effect of currency movements, total assets increased 
by 6%. 
Strong growth in deposits across most regions 
enabled us to support our customers’ borrowing 
requirements, leading to significantly higher term 
lending and mortgage balances in Hong Kong, Rest 
of Asia-Pacific and the UK. Our strong liquidity 
position and risk preference also led to a rise in 
balances at central banks. In addition, the fair value 
of derivative contracts increased markedly, as the 
deteriorating economic outlook resulted in a decline 
in yield curves in major currencies during the latter 
part of the year. This growth was offset in part by a 
reduction in net trading assets as we took action to 
manage our balance sheet more effectively, which 
resulted in year-end balances being lower than the 
average for the year. 
The following commentary is based on a 
comparison with the balance sheet at 31 December 
2010 as shown on page 35. 
Assets 
Cash and balances at central banks rose by 129%. 
The increasingly prominent role played by western 
central banks in the functioning of the money 
markets as well as our own risk preference as the 
eurozone crisis deepened resulted in a larger portion 
of our excess liquidity being held with central banks 
in Europe and in North America. The redeployment 
of funds from maturities and sales of financial 
investments and strong growth in deposits also 
contributed to the rise.  
Trading assets decreased by 13%. Economic 
uncertainty led to a decline in market activity. As a 
result, we reduced our holdings of government and 
highly-rated corporate debt securities and equity 
positions, notably in Europe, and did not replace 
maturities in our reverse repo book. This was partly 
offset by higher cash collateral posted with external 
counterparties as the fair value of derivative 
liabilities rose.  
Financial assets designated at fair value 
declined by 14% as a result of improved netting of 
assets and the associated non-recourse liabilities. 
There was a corresponding reduction in ‘Financial 
liabilities designated at fair value’.  
Derivative assets increased by 35%, due to a 
significant rise in the fair value of interest rate 
contracts in Europe. This was driven by the 
downward movements of yield curves in major 
currencies following the global monetary response to 
continued economic weakness, including 
quantitative easing measures. The notional value of 
contracts outstanding also increased, reflecting a 
higher number of open interest rate and foreign 
exchange transactions than a year ago. The increase 
in the fair value of derivative assets was partly offset 
by higher netting, which rose in line with the 
increase in fair values.  
Loans and advances to banks declined by 11%, 
as funds from maturing term loans and reverse repo 
balances, notably in Europe, were redeployed to 
‘Cash and balances at central banks’. This was offset 
in part by higher central bank lending in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, reflecting strong deposit growth in the 
region.   
Loans and advances to customers were broadly 
in line with 2010. Following the announcement of 
agreements for the sale of 195 non-strategic US 
branches and our Cards and Retail Services business, 
we reclassified the related loans and advances to 
‘Assets held for sale’, which, for the purpose of this 
commentary, is reported within ‘Other assets’ (see 
page 86). We also reclassified loans and advances 
relating to the planned disposals of non-strategic 
banking operations in Central America, the RBWM 
business in Thailand and our private banking 
business in Japan to ‘Assets held for sale’.  
Excluding the above reclassifications, loans and 
advances to customers increased by US$30bn 
compared with 2010, although the pace of growth 
slowed in the second half of 2011. This reflected 
targeted loan growth in our CMB and GB&M 
businesses in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific as 
the economic environment improved and trade flows 
increased, together with growth as a result of lending 
campaigns in CMB in the UK and Latin America. 
Residential mortgage balances also rose significantly 
in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific due 
to a strong sales focus and competitive pricing, 
reflecting the successful implementation of our 
strategy to reposition RBWM towards higher quality 
secured lending. This growth was offset in part by a 
reduction in reverse repo balances in Europe and 
North America, as a result of lower market activity.  
Financial investments were broadly in line with 
2010, as Balance Sheet Management continued to 
hold large portfolios of highly liquid assets. In North 
America, financial investments rose due to the 
purchases of government and government agency 
debt securities. This was partly offset by a reduction 
in Europe, where a portion of the proceeds from 
sales and maturities of financial investments were 
placed at central banks.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Balance sheet  
 
 
34 
Other assets, which, for the purpose of this 
commentary, includes assets held for sale, increased 
by 34%, reflecting the reclassification of assets of 
disposal groups, most notably the loans and 
advances to customers associated with the non-
strategic US branches and our Cards and Retail 
Services business. 
Liabilities 
Deposits by banks rose by 4% due to higher 
placements by other financial institutions with 
HSBC, primarily in Rest of Asia-Pacific and North 
America. This was partly offset by a reduction in 
repo balances as a result of lower market activity.  
Customer accounts increased by 4% in highly 
competitive markets. This was driven by customer 
acquisition, coupled with targeted deposit gathering 
campaigns to support growth in lending, most 
notably in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and in 
Europe. This was partly offset by the reclassification 
of deposits of businesses, principally the US 
branches, to liabilities held-for-sale. Repo balances 
in Europe also declined, reflecting lower market 
activity levels, particularly during the latter part of 
the year. 
Trading liabilities fell by 11%. Net short bond 
and equity positions decreased in line with the 
reduction in holdings of debt and equity securities, 
which fell as a result of lower market activity. Repo 
balances also declined, reflecting lower funding 
requirements as trading assets fell. These declines 
were offset in part by a rise in cash collateral posted 
by external counterparties in line with the increase in 
the fair value of derivative contracts, notably in 
Europe.  
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
were broadly in line with 2010. Debt issuances by 
HSBC entities in Europe were partly offset by 
maturities not being replaced in North America as 
funding requirements reduced in line with the 
decline in the consumer finance portfolios in run-off. 
Improved netting of non-recourse liabilities and 
associated assets led to a further reduction in 
‘Financial liabilities designated at fair value’, with a 
corresponding decrease in ‘Financial assets 
designated at fair value’.  
Derivative businesses are managed within 
market risk limits and, as a consequence, the 
increase in the value of Derivative liabilities broadly 
matched that of ‘Derivative assets’. 
Debt securities in issue declined by 9%, 
reflecting the non-replacement of maturing securities 
in both North America and Europe as a result of 
lower funding requirements relating to the continued 
reduction in consumer lending balances and the 
decline in trading assets, respectively. This was 
offset in part by new issuances in Latin America and 
Rest of Asia-Pacific to support balance sheet growth.  
Liabilities under insurance contracts grew by 
7%, driven by reserves established for new business 
premiums written, notably in Hong Kong, Brazil, 
France, the UK and Singapore. This was partly offset 
by the effect of a fall in equity markets, which 
resulted in a decline in the fair value of assets held to 
support unit-linked and investment and insurance 
contracts with DPF and also in the related liabilities 
to policyholders, together with reductions due to the 
non-renewal and transfer to third parties of certain 
contracts in our Irish businesses and the sale of the 
motor insurance business in the UK during 2011. 
Other liabilities, which, for the purpose of this 
commentary, includes liabilities of disposal groups, 
increased by 24% as a result of the reclassification of 
liabilities of businesses held for sale. 
Equity 
Total shareholders’ equity increased by 9%, driven 
by profits generated during the year. In addition, the 
negative balance on the available-for-sale reserve 
declined from US$4.1bn at 31 December 2010 to 
US$3.4bn at 31 December 2011, reflecting an 
improvement in the market value of assets.   
 
35 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Reconciliation of reported and underlying assets and liabilities 
 31 December 2011 compared with 31 December 2010 
 
 31 Dec 10 
 as 
 reported  
 Currency 
 translation
43
 31 Dec 10
 at 31 Dec 11
 exchange
 rates
 Under-
 lying
 change 
 31 Dec 11 
 as 
 reported  
 Reported 
 change  
 Under-
 lying
 change 
HSBC   US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m   %   % 
Cash and balances at  
central banks .......................... 57,383 (590) 56,793 73,109 129,902  126  129 
Trading assets ............................ 385,052 (3,834) 381,218 (50,767) 330,451  (14)  (13)
Financial assets designated  
at fair value ............................ 37,011 (937) 36,074 (5,218) 30,856  (17)  (14)
Derivative assets ........................ 260,757 (3,765) 256,992 89,387 346,379  33  35 
Loans and advances to banks .... 208,271 (5,661) 202,610 (21,623) 180,987  (13)  (11)
Loans and advances to  
customers ............................... 958,366 (12,556) 945,810 (5,381) 940,429  (2)  (1)
Financial investments ................ 400,755 (5,219) 395,536 4,508 400,044  –  1 
Other assets ................................ 147,094 (439) 146,655 49,876 196,531  34  34 
Total assets ................................ 2,454,689 (33,001) 2,421,688 133,891 2,555,579  4  6 
        
Deposits by banks ...................... 110,584 (1,837) 108,747 4,075 112,822  2  4 
Customer accounts ..................... 1,227,725 (17,065) 1,210,660 43,265 1,253,925  2  4 
Trading liabilities ....................... 300,703 (2,785) 297,918 (32,726) 265,192  (12)  (11)
Financial liabilities designated  
at fair value ............................ 88,133 (449) 87,684 (1,960) 85,724  (3)  (2)
Derivative liabilities .................. 258,665 (3,710) 254,955 90,425 345,380  34  35 
Debt securities in issue .............. 145,401 (1,456) 143,945 (12,932) 131,013  (10)  (9)
Liabilities under insurance  
contracts ................................. 58,609 (1,501) 57,108 4,151 61,259  5  7 
Other liabilities .......................... 109,954 (1,906) 108,048 26,123 134,171  22  24 
Total liabilities ........................... 2,299,774 (30,709) 2,269,065 120,421 2,389,486  4  5 
Total shareholders’ equity ......... 147,667 (2,263) 145,404 13,321 158,725  7  9 
Non-controlling interests ........... 7,248 (29) 7,219 149 7,368  2  2 
Total equity ................................ 154,915 (2,292) 152,623 13,470 166,093  7  9 
Total equity and liabilities ......... 2,454,689 (33,001) 2,421,688 133,891 2,555,579  4  6 
For footnote, see page 95. 
In 2011, the effect of acquisitions was not material. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Balance sheet / Economic profit / RoRWA measures 
 
 
36 
Customer accounts by country 
 At 31 December 
 2011 
US$m 
 2010
 US$m 
Europe ........................................................................................................................................................ 493,404  491,563 
UK ............................................................................................................................................................... 361,181  351,522
France
44
 ....................................................................................................................................................... 55,278  65,407
Germany ..................................................................................................................................................... 8,738  7,063
Malta ........................................................................................................................................................... 5,695  5,968
Switzerland ................................................................................................................................................. 45,283  43,098
Turkey ......................................................................................................................................................... 6,809  6,602
Other ........................................................................................................................................................... 10,420  11,903
   
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................................................. 315,345  297,484 
   
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................................................... 174,012 158,155 
Australia ...................................................................................................................................................... 18,802 16,640
India ............................................................................................................................................................ 10,227 12,143
Indonesia ..................................................................................................................................................... 6,490 5,572
Mainland China .......................................................................................................................................... 31,570 27,007
Malaysia ...................................................................................................................................................... 16,970 15,257
Singapore .................................................................................................................................................... 44,447 38,951
Taiwan ........................................................................................................................................................ 11,659 12,131
Vietnam ....................................................................................................................................................... 1,834 1,256
Other ........................................................................................................................................................... 32,013 29,198
   
Middle East and North Africa  
(excluding Saudi Arabia) ............................................................................................................................ 36,422  33,511 
Egypt ........................................................................................................................................................... 7,047  6,881
Qatar ........................................................................................................................................................... 2,796  3,069
UAE ............................................................................................................................................................ 18,172  16,332
Other ........................................................................................................................................................... 8,407  7,229
   
North America .......................................................................................................................................... 155,982  158,486 
US ............................................................................................................................................................... 97,542  103,007
Canada ........................................................................................................................................................ 45,510  45,772
Bermuda ...................................................................................................................................................... 12,930  9,707
   
Latin America ........................................................................................................................................... 78,760  88,526 
Argentina .................................................................................................................................................... 4,878  3,983
Brazil ........................................................................................................................................................... 42,410  49,253
Mexico ........................................................................................................................................................ 21,772  21,295
Panama ........................................................................................................................................................ 5,463  7,429
Other ........................................................................................................................................................... 4,237  6,566
Total ............................................................................................................................................................ 1,253,925 1,227,725 
For footnote, see page 95.   
 
37 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Economic profit/(loss) 
Our internal performance measures include 
economic profit/(loss), a calculation which compares 
the return on financial capital invested in HSBC by 
our shareholders with the cost of that capital. We 
price our cost of capital internally and the difference 
between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable 
to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of 
economic profit/(loss) generated. In order to 
concentrate on external factors rather than 
measurement bases, we emphasise the trend in 
economic profit/(loss) ahead of absolute amounts. 
Our long-term cost of capital is reviewed 
annually and is 11% for 2011; this remains 
unchanged from 2010. The following commentary is 
on a reported basis. 
The return on invested capital increased by 
1.5 percentage points to 10.2%, which was 
0.8 percentage points lower than our benchmark cost 
of capital. Our economic loss was US$1.3bn, 
US$2.0bn less than the loss at 31 December 2010, 
reflecting an increase in profit attributable to 
shareholders. This was predominantly driven by a 
significant increase in the fair value of own debt and 
a lower tax charge. 
The increase in average invested capital 
reflected higher retained earnings and an increase in 
average foreign exchange reserves, primarily due to 
the effect of euro and sterling exchange rate 
movements on our underlying assets. 
 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  %
45
   US$m  %
45
Average total shareholders’ equity .......................................................................... 156,129 138,224 
Adjusted by:   
Goodwill previously amortised or written off .................................................... 8,123 8,123 
Property revaluation reserves .............................................................................. (914) (813)
Reserves representing unrealised losses on effective cash flow hedges ............ 287 100 
Reserves representing unrealised losses on available-for-sale securities ........... 3,379 6,129 
Preference shares and other equity instruments .................................................. (7,256) (5,473)
Average invested capital
46 
....................................................................................... 159,748 146,290 
Return on invested capital
47 
..................................................................................... 16,224  10.2 12,746  8.7 
Benchmark cost of capital ....................................................................................... (17,572) (11.0) (16,092) (11.0)
Economic loss and spread ....................................................................................... (1,348) (0.8) (3,346) (2.3)
For footnotes, see page 95. 
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 
In addition to measuring return on average risk 
weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) we measure our 
performance internally using underlying RoRWA, 
which is underlying profit before tax as a percentage 
of average risk weighted assets (‘RWA’s) adjusted 
for the effects of foreign currency translation 
differences. Underlying RoRWA adjusts 
performance for certain items which distort year-on-
year performance as explained on page 16. 
We also present underlying RoRWA adjusted 
for the effect of legacy credit in GB&M (the legacy 
credit portfolio is described on page 23) and the US 
consumer finance business (the Cards and Retail 
Services business along with the run-off portfolio 
disclosed on page 88); together, the legacy 
businesses. This excludes the results and RWAs 
related to operations which are not regarded as 
contributing to the longer-term performance of the 
Group. 
 
 2011 2010 
  Pre-tax 
 return 
 Average 
 RWAs  RoRWA 
 Pre-tax 
 return  
 Average 
 RWAs   RoRWA 
 US$m US$bn  % US$m  US$bn   % 
Reported ........................................................... 21,872 1,154  1.9 19,037 1,098   1.7 
Underlying ....................................................... 17,696 1,154  1.5 18,925 1,108   1.7 
Legacy businesses ............................................ (2,847) 222  (1.3) (1,871) 215   (0.9)
Legacy credit in GB&M .............................. (436) 33 (1.3) 226  23   1.0 
US consumer finance business .................... (2,411) 189 (1.3) (2,097)  192   (1.1)
Underlying (excluding legacy businesses) ...... 20,543 932  2.2 20,796 893   2.3 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Critical accounting policies 
 
 
38 
Critical accounting policies 
(Audited) 
Introduction 
The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting 
policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the 
preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 
The significant accounting policies are described in 
Note 2 on the Financial Statements. 
When preparing the financial statements, it is 
the Directors’ responsibility under UK company law 
to select suitable accounting policies and to make 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent. The accounting policies that are deemed 
critical to our results and financial position, in terms 
of the materiality of the items to which the policies 
are applied and the high degree of judgement 
involved, including the use of assumptions and 
estimation, are discussed below. 
Impairment of loans and advances 
Our accounting policy for losses arising from the 
impairment of customer loans and advances is 
described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements. 
Loan impairment allowances represent 
management’s best estimate of losses incurred 
in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date. 
Management is required to exercise judgement 
in making assumptions and estimates when 
calculating loan impairment allowances on both 
individually and collectively assessed loans and 
advances. Of the Group’s total loans and advances 
to customers before impairment allowances of 
US$958bn (2010: US$978bn), US$17bn or 2% 
(2010: US$16bn; 2%) were individually assessed 
for impairment, and US$941bn or 98% (2010: 
US$962bn; 98%) were collectively assessed for 
impairment. 
The most significant judgemental area is the 
calculation of collective impairment allowances. The 
geographical area with most exposure subject to this 
judgement is North America. Collective impairment 
allowances in North America were US$7bn, 
representing 62% (2010: US$9bn; 64%) of the total 
collectively assessed loan impairment allowance. 
The methods used to calculate collective 
impairment allowances on homogeneous groups 
of loans and advances that are not considered 
individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g 
on the Financial Statements. They are subject to 
estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not 
practicable to identify losses on an individual loan 
basis because of the large number of individually 
insignificant loans in the portfolio. 
The methods involve the use of statistically 
assessed historical information which is 
supplemented with significant management 
judgement to assess whether current economic and 
credit conditions are such that the actual level of 
inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than 
that suggested by historical experience. In normal 
circumstances, historical experience provides the 
most objective and relevant information from which 
to assess inherent loss within each portfolio. 
Sometimes, however, it provides less relevant 
information about the inherent loss in a given 
portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, 
when there have been changes in economic, 
regulatory or behavioural conditions which result in 
the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being 
not fully reflected in the statistical models. In these 
circumstances, the risk factors are taken into account 
by adjusting the impairment allowances derived 
solely from historical loss experience. 
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, 
product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, 
geographical concentrations, loan product features, 
economic conditions such as national and local 
trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, 
portfolio seasoning, account management policies 
and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and 
other influences on customer payment patterns. 
Different factors are applied in different regions 
and countries to reflect local economic conditions, 
laws and regulations. The methodology and the 
assumptions used in calculating impairment losses 
are reviewed regularly in the light of differences 
between loss estimates and actual loss experience. 
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected 
timing of future recoveries are regularly 
benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure 
they remain appropriate. 
Under certain specified conditions, the Group 
provides forbearance to borrowers experiencing 
financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the 
contractual payment terms of loans in order to 
improve the management of customer relationships, 
maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, 
avoid default or repossession. Where forbearance 
activities are significant, higher levels of judgement 
and estimation uncertainty are involved in 
determining the effects of loan forbearance on loan 
impairment allowances. Forbearance activities take 
place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but 
the Group’s largest concentration is in the US, in 
HSBC Finance’s CML portfolio. A detailed review 
of the CML portfolio was carried out during 2011 to 
improve the risk differentiation in the segmentation 
of the portfolio. The review involved extensive   
 
39 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
statistical analysis of actual default experience in the 
portfolio. Amongst other improvements, this review 
resulted in changes to further differentiate the credit 
characteristics of forbearance cases, including those 
which return to performing status following 
forbearance. As part of this review, the application 
of the Group accounting policies for the 
determination of impairment allowances for the 
CML portfolio was considered, in particular 
regarding the effect of the large proportion of 
renegotiated loans in this portfolio. The consequent 
changes did not result in a material change to 
impairment allowances recorded by HSBC Finance 
under IFRSs. Further information regarding 
forbearance activities is disclosed on page 129. 
The exercise of judgement requires the use of 
assumptions which are highly subjective and very 
sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes 
in economic and credit conditions across a large 
number of geographical areas. Many of the factors 
have a high degree of interdependency and there is 
no single factor to which our loan impairment 
allowances as a whole are sensitive. They are 
particularly sensitive to general economic and credit 
conditions in North America, however. For example, 
a 10% increase in impairment allowances on 
collectively assessed loans and advances in North 
America would increase loan impairment allowances 
by US$0.7bn at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$0.9bn). 
It is possible that the outcomes within the next 
financial year could differ from the assumptions 
built into the models, resulting in a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of loans and 
advances. 
Goodwill impairment 
Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in 
Note 2p on the Financial Statements. Note 24 on the 
Financial Statements lists our cash generating units 
(‘CGU’s) by geographical region and global 
business. HSBC’s total goodwill amounted to 
US$21bn at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$22bn). 
The review of goodwill impairment reflects 
management’s best estimate of the following factors: 
• the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive 
to the cash flows projected for the periods for 
which detailed forecasts are available and to 
assumptions regarding the long-term pattern 
of sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts 
are compared with actual performance and 
verifiable economic data, but they necessarily 
and appropriately reflect management’s view 
of future business prospects at the time of the 
assessment; and 
• the rates used to discount future expected cash 
flows are based on the costs of capital assigned 
to individual CGUs and can have a significant 
effect on their valuation. The cost of capital 
percentage is generally derived from a Capital 
Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates inputs 
reflecting a number of financial and economic 
variables, including the risk-free interest rate in 
the country concerned and a premium for the 
inherent risk of the business being evaluated. 
These variables are subject to fluctuations in 
external market rates and economic conditions 
beyond our control and are consequently subject 
to uncertainty and require the exercise of 
significant judgement. 
A decline in a CGU’s expected cash flows 
and/or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the 
CGU’s estimated recoverable amount. If this is 
lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge 
for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our 
income statement for the year. 
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject 
to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market 
conditions. In such market conditions, management 
retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than 
annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the 
cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect 
current market conditions and management’s best 
estimate of future business prospects. 
During 2011, no impairment of goodwill was 
identified (2010: nil). In addition to the annual 
impairment test which was performed as at 1 July 
2011, management reviewed the current and expected 
performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2011 
and determined that there was no indication of 
potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to 
them, except for the GB&M – Europe CGU, which 
experienced significantly reduced profitability in the 
second half of 2011. The reduced forecast 
profitability resulted in a reduction in the recoverable 
amount of the CGU when compared to its carrying 
amount. Consequently, the results of the goodwill 
impairment testing for this CGU are more sensitive to 
key assumptions used. Management retested the 
goodwill for this CGU and concluded that there was 
no impairment. 
Note 24 on the Financial Statements includes 
details of the CGUs with significant balances of 
goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess 
the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment 
and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the 
carrying value of goodwill to changes in key 
assumptions.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Critical accounting policies 
 
 
40 
Valuation of financial instruments 
Our accounting policy for determining the fair value 
of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on 
the Financial Statements.  
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price 
in an actively traded market. In the event that the 
market for a financial instrument is not active, a 
valuation technique is used. The majority of 
valuation techniques employ only observable 
market data and so the reliability of the fair value 
measurement is high. However, certain financial 
instruments are valued on the basis of valuation 
techniques that feature one or more significant 
market inputs that are unobservable. Valuation 
techniques that rely to a greater extent on 
unobservable inputs require a higher level of 
management judgement to calculate a fair value 
than those based wholly on observable inputs. 
Valuation techniques used to calculate fair 
values are discussed in Note 16 on the Financial 
Statements. The main assumptions and estimates 
which management consider when applying a model 
with valuation techniques are: 
• the likelihood and expected timing of future cash 
flows on the instrument. These cash flows are 
estimated based on the terms of the instrument, 
and judgement may be required when the ability 
of the counterparty to service the instrument in 
accordance with the contractual terms is in 
doubt. Future cash flows may be sensitive to 
changes in market rates; 
• selecting an appropriate discount rate for 
the instrument. The determination of this rate 
is based on an assessment of what a market 
participant would regard as the appropriate 
spread of the rate for the instrument over the 
appropriate risk-free rate; and 
• judgement to determine what model to use to 
calculate fair value in areas where the choice of 
valuation model is particularly subjective, for 
example, when valuing complex derivative 
products. 
When applying a model with unobservable 
inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties 
in fair values resulting from a lack of market data 
inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in 
the market. For these instruments, the fair value 
measurement is less reliable. Inputs into valuations 
based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain 
because there is little or no current market data 
available from which to determine the level at which 
an arm’s length transaction would occur under 
normal business conditions. However, in most cases 
there is some market data available on which to base 
a determination of fair value, for example historical 
data, and the fair values of most financial 
instruments are based on some market observable 
inputs even when unobservable inputs are 
significant. 
The value of financial assets and liabilities 
measured at fair value using a valuation technique 
was US$665bn (2010: US$599bn) and US$569bn 
(2010: US$499bn), respectively or 61% (2010: 56%) 
of total financial assets and 82% (2010: 77%) of 
total financial liabilities measured at fair value. 
Disclosures of the types and amounts of 
adjustments made in determining the fair value of 
financial instruments measured at fair value using 
valuation techniques, and a sensitivity analysis of 
fair values for financial instruments with significant 
unobservable inputs to reasonably possible 
alternative assumptions, can be found in Note 16 on 
the Financial Statements. Given the uncertainty and 
subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at 
fair value, it is possible that the outcomes in the next 
financial year could differ from the assumptions 
used, and this could result in a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of financial instruments 
measured at fair value. 
Impairment of available-for-sale financial 
assets 
Our accounting policy for impairment of available-
for-sale financial assets is described in Note 2j on 
the Financial Statements. 
At 31 December 2011, our total available-for-
sale financial assets amounted to US$379bn (2010: 
US$381bn), of which US$372bn or 98% (2010: 
US$373bn; 98%) were debt securities. The 
available-for-sale fair value reserve relating to 
debt securities amounted to a deficit of US$4.9bn 
(2010: deficit of US$6.2bn). A deficit in the 
available-for-sale fair value reserve occurs on debt 
securities when the fair value of a relevant security 
is less than its acquisition cost (net of any principal 
repayments and amortisation) after deducting any 
impairment losses recognised. 
Management is required to exercise judgement 
in determining whether there is objective evidence 
that an impairment loss has occurred. Once an 
impairment has been identified, the amount of 
impairment loss is measured with reference to 
the fair value of the asset. More information on 
assumptions and estimates requiring management 
judgement relating to the determination of fair 
values of financial instruments is provided above 
in ‘Valuation of financial instruments’.   
 
41 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Deciding whether an available-for-sale debt 
security is impaired requires objective evidence of 
both the occurrence of a loss event and a related 
change in estimated future cash flows. The degree 
of judgement involved is less when cash flows 
are readily determinable, but increases when 
estimating future cash flows requires consideration 
of a number of variables, some of which may be 
unobservable in current market conditions. 
There is no single factor to which the Group’s 
charge for impairment of available-for-sale debt 
securities is particularly sensitive, because of the 
various types of securities we hold, the range of 
geographical areas in which those securities are held, 
and the wide range of factors which can affect the 
occurrence of loss events and the cash flows of 
securities, including different types of collateral. 
The most significant judgements concern more 
complex instruments, such as asset-backed securities 
(‘ABS’s), where it is necessary to consider factors 
such as the estimated future cash flows on 
underlying pools of collateral including prepayment 
speeds, the extent and depth of market price declines 
and changes in credit ratings. The review of 
estimated future cash flows on underlying collateral 
is subject to uncertainties when the assessment is 
based on historical information on pools of assets, 
and judgement is required to determine whether 
historical performance remains representative of 
current economic and credit conditions. 
Further details of the nature and extent of our 
exposures to ABSs classified as available-for-sale 
and a more detailed description of the assumptions 
and estimates used in assessing these securities for 
impairment, together with a discussion of those 
assets which are most sensitive to possible future 
impairment, are provided in ‘Securitisation 
exposures and other structured products’ on 
page 149. 
It is possible that outcomes in the next financial 
year could be different from those modelled when 
seeking to identify impairment on available-for-sale 
debt securities. In this event, impairment may be 
identified in available-for-sale debt securities which 
had previously been determined not to be impaired, 
potentially resulting in the recognition of material 
impairment losses in the next financial year. 
Deferred tax assets  
Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred 
tax assets is described in Note 2(s) on the Financial 
Statements. The recognition of a deferred tax asset 
relies on an assessment of the probability and 
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals 
of existing taxable temporary differences and 
ongoing tax planning strategies. 
The most significant judgements concern the US 
deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses 
in our US operations. The net US deferred tax asset 
amounted to US$5.2bn or 68% (2010: US$4bn; 
58%) of deferred tax assets recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet. 
Recognition of the US deferred tax asset is 
based on the evidence available about conditions 
at the balance sheet date, and requires significant 
judgements to be made regarding projections of loan 
impairment charges and the timing of recovery in 
the US economy. These judgements take into 
consideration the effect of both positive and negative 
evidence, including historical financial performance, 
projections of future taxable income, future 
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, 
tax planning strategies and the availability of loss 
carrybacks. 
Projections of future taxable income in the 
US are based on business plans, future capital 
requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies. 
These projections include assumptions about future 
house prices, US economic conditions including 
unemployment levels and their impact on loan 
impairment charges, and capital support from HSBC 
Holdings. These forecasts are consistent with 
the assumption that it is probable that the results 
of future operations will generate sufficient taxable 
income to support the deferred tax assets. In 
management’s judgement, recent market conditions, 
which have resulted in losses being incurred in the 
US, will create significant downward pressure and 
volatility regarding the profit or loss before tax in 
the next few years. To reflect this, the assessment of 
recoverability of the deferred tax assets in the US 
significantly discounts any future expected taxable 
income and relies to a greater extent on capital 
support to the US operations from HSBC Holdings, 
including tax planning strategies implemented in 
relation to such support. 
The most significant tax planning strategy is the 
retention of capital in our US operations to ensure 
the realisation of the deferred tax assets. 
Management expects that, with this strategy, the US 
operations will generate sufficient future profits to 
support the recognition of the deferred tax assets. If 
HSBC Holdings were to decide not to provide this 
ongoing support, the full recovery of the deferred tax 
asset may no longer be probable and could result in a 
significant reduction of the deferred tax asset which 
would be recognised as a charge in the income 
statement.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Critical accounting policies // Global businesses > Summary 
 
 
42 
These strategies remain unaffected by the 
proposed sale of the Group’s US credit card and 
private label credit card business and 195 non-
strategic branches. The incremental capital generated 
as a result of these disposals will reduce the capital 
support required from HSBC Holdings, but capital 
support from HSBC Holdings will continue to be 
relied on to the extent necessary to support the 
recoverability of our deferred tax assets. 
Provisions for liabilities 
The accounting policy for provision for liabilities is 
described in Note 2w on the Financial Statements. 
Note 33 on the Financial Statements discloses the 
major categories of provisions recognised. The 
closing balance of provisions amounted to US$3.3bn 
(2010: US$2.1bn), of which US$1.5bn (2010: 
US$1.0bn) relates to legal proceedings and 
regulatory matters and US$1.1bn (2010: US$0.4bn) 
relates to customer remediation.  
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or 
amount, and are recognised when there is a present 
obligation as a result of a past event, the outflow of 
economic benefit is probable and the outflow can 
be estimated reliably. Judgement is involved in 
determining whether an obligation exists, and in 
estimating the probability, timing and amount of any 
outflows. Professional expert advice is taken on 
litigation provisions, taxation provisions, property 
provisions including onerous contracts and similar 
liabilities.  
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters typically require a higher degree of 
judgement than other types of provisions. When 
cases are at an early stage, accounting judgements 
can be difficult because of the high degree of 
uncertainty associated with determining whether a 
present obligation exists as a result of a past event, 
estimating the probability of outflows and making 
estimates of the amount of any outflows that may 
arise. As matters progress through various stages of 
development, management together with legal 
advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether 
provisions should be recognised, and the estimated 
amounts of any such provisions, revising previous 
judgements and estimates as appropriate. At more 
advanced stages, it is typically possible to make 
judgements and estimates around a better defined set 
of possible outcomes, however such judgements can 
be very difficult and the amount of any provision can 
be very sensitive to the assumptions used. There 
could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any 
pending legal proceedings, investigations or  
inquiries. As a result, it is often not practicable to 
quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual 
matters. It is not practicable to meaningfully quantify 
ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these 
types of provisions because of the diverse nature and 
circumstances of such matters and the wide range of 
uncertainties involved. For a detailed description of 
the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the 
effect on the amount and timing of possible cash 
outflows on material matters, see Note 44, ‘Legal 
proceedings and regulatory matters’ on the Financial 
Statements.  
Provisions for customer remediation also require 
significant levels of estimation and judgement. The 
amounts of provisions recognised depend on a 
number of different assumptions, for example, the 
number of customer complaints expected to be 
received, the response rates from customers who are 
contacted as part of customer outreach activities, the 
uphold rate for complaints and the amounts payable 
in respect of compensation and costs of conducting 
reviews. These assumptions are revised over time as 
additional information becomes available. 
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the 
high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition 
and measurement of provisions, it is possible that the 
outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
those on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in a material change in the amounts of 
provisions recognised, and outflows of economic 
benefits which are materially different to those 
estimated by management for the purposes of the 
2011 financial statements. 
Basis of preparation 
(Unaudited) 
The results of global businesses and geographical regions are 
presented in accordance with the accounting policies used in 
the preparation of HSBC’s consolidated financial statements.  
Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, 
the presentation of global business data includes internal 
allocations of certain items of income and expense. These 
allocations include the costs of certain support services and 
global functions, to the extent that these can be meaningfully 
attributed to operational business lines. While such allocations 
have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they 
necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity. 
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented 
include the results of inter-segment funding as well as inter-
company and inter-business line transactions. All such 
transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. 
The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the 
Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost 
of being headquartered in the UK. For the purposes of the 
segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is 
included in ‘Other’.   
43 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Global businesses 
Summary ............................................................................ 43
Products and services ........................................................ 44
Retail Banking and Wealth Management .......................... 46
Commercial Banking ......................................................... 48
 
Global Banking and Markets ............................................. 51
Global Private Banking ..................................................... 54
Other .................................................................................. 55
Analysis by global business ............................................... 57
 
Summary 
HSBC’s senior management reviews operating 
activity on a number of bases, including by 
geographical region and by global business, as 
presented on page 59. 
RBWM was previously known as Personal 
Financial Services (‘PFS’). With effect from 
1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management 
business was moved from GB&M to RBWM. 
This resulted in reallocations between the two of 
US$321m and US$219m in profit before tax in 
2010 and 2009, respectively, and in total assets of 
US$3.3bn and US$2.8bn at the end of 2010 and 
2009, respectively. The presentation of both years 
has been adjusted accordingly. 
The commentaries below present global 
businesses followed by geographical regions. 
Performance is discussed in this order because 
certain strategic themes, business initiatives and 
trends affect more than one geographical region. 
All commentaries are on an underlying basis (see 
page 16) unless stated otherwise. 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m  % US$m  %  US$m  % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management
17
 ............. 4,270 19.6 3,839  20.2  (1,846) (26.1)
Commercial Banking ............................................... 7,947 36.3 6,090  32.0   4,275   60.4 
Global Banking and Markets
17
 ................................ 7,049 32.2 9,215  48.4  10,262  145 
Global Private Banking ........................................... 944 4.3 1,054  5.5   1,108   15.6 
Other
48
 ...................................................................... 1,662 7.6 (1,161) (6.1)  (6,720) (94.9)
 21,872 100.0 19,037  100.0   7,079   100.0 
Total assets
49
 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  %  US$m  % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management
17
 ............................................................ 540,548  21.2  530,970   21.6 
Commercial Banking .............................................................................................. 334,966  13.1  296,797   12.1 
Global Banking and Markets
17
 ............................................................................... 1,877,627  73.5  1,755,043   71.5 
Global Private Banking .......................................................................................... 119,839  4.7  116,846   4.8 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 180,126  7.0  161,458   6.6 
Intra-HSBC items ................................................................................................... (497,527) (19.5)  (406,425) (16.6)
 2,555,579  100.0  2,454,689   100.0 
Risk-weighted assets
50
 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$bn  %  US$bn  % 
Total ........................................................................................................................ 1,209.5  100.0  1,103.1  100.0 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management
17
 ............................................................ 351.2  29.0  357.0  32.4 
Commercial Banking .............................................................................................. 382.9  31.7  334.4  30.3 
Global Banking and Markets
17,51
 ............................................................................ 423.0  35.0  353.2  32.0 
Global Private Banking .......................................................................................... 22.5  1.9  24.9  2.3 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 29.9  2.4  33.6  3.0 
For footnotes, see page 95.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Products and services 
 
 
44 
Products and services 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
RBWM offers its products and services to customers 
based on their individual needs. Premier and Advance 
services are targeted at mass affluent and emerging 
affluent customers who value international 
connectivity and benefit from our global reach and 
scale. For customers who have simpler everyday 
banking needs, we offer a full range of banking 
products and services reflecting local requirements. 
In addition, we are one of the largest card issuers 
in the world, offering HSBC branded cards, co-branded 
cards with selected partners and private label (store) 
cards.  
Typically, customer offerings include personal 
banking products (current and savings accounts, 
mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards 
and local and international payment services) and 
wealth management services (insurance and 
investment products and financial planning services). 
 
• HSBC Premier provides preferential banking services and 
global recognition to our mass affluent customers and their 
immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, 
specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions. Customers can 
access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking 
and an online ‘global view’ of their Premier accounts around 
the world. 
• HSBC Advance provides a range of preferential products and 
services customised to meet local needs. With a dedicated 
telephone service, access to wealth advice and online tools to 
support financial planning, it gives customers an online ‘global 
view’ of their Advance accounts. 
• Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial 
planning process designed around individual customer needs 
to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth 
through investment and wealth insurance products 
manufactured by Global Asset Management, Global Markets 
and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers.  
• Global Asset Management offers investment solutions to 
individual investors, financial intermediaries and institutions 
globally. 
Customers can transact with the bank via a range of channels 
such as internet banking and self-service terminals in addition to 
traditional and automated branches and telephone service centres.
 
Commercial Banking 
We segment our CMB business into Corporate, to 
serve both corporate and mid-market companies with 
more sophisticated financial needs, and Business 
Banking, to serve small and medium-sized enterprises 
(‘SME’s). This enables the development of tailored 
customer propositions while adopting a broader view 
of the entire commercial banking sector, from sole 
traders to large corporations. This allows us to provide 
continuous support to companies as they grow both 
domestically and internationally, and ensures a clear 
focus on internationally aspirant customers, who are 
typically key to innovation and growth in market 
economies.  
We place particular emphasis on international 
connectivity to meet the needs of our business 
customers. We aim to be recognised as the ‘Leading 
international trade and business bank’ by focusing on 
faster-growing markets, enhancing collaboration with 
GB&M, capturing growth in international SMEs and 
driving efficiency gains through adopting a global 
operating model. 
 
 
• Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic and cross-border 
financing, including overdrafts, term loans and syndicated, 
leveraged, acquisition and project finance. Asset finance is also 
offered in selected countries. 
• International trade and receivables finance: we provide 
buyers and suppliers with products and services such as 
documentary credits and collections, import and export 
finance, guarantees and forfaiting to facilitate trade payments, 
finance the trade cycle and help mitigate risk throughout the 
supply chain. Our Receivables Finance proposition for 
domestic and international customers is offered through an 
extensive network. 
• Payments and cash management: we are a leading 
provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, 
liquidity management and account services offering local, 
regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms 
designed to address the current and future needs of our clients. 
• GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for 
GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and 
interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and 
equity markets and advisory services. 
• Commercial cards: card issuing helps customers enhance 
cash management, credit control and purchasing. Card 
acquiring services enable merchants to accept credit and debit 
card payments in person or remotely. 
• Insurance: we offer business and financial protection, trade 
insurance, employee benefits, corporate wealth management 
and a variety of other commercial risk insurance products 
 
   
 
45 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and Markets 
GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major 
government, corporate and institutional clients and 
private investors worldwide. Managed as a global 
business, GB&M operates a long-term relationship 
management approach to build a full understanding of 
clients’ financial requirements. Sector-focused client 
service teams comprising relationship managers and 
product specialists develop financial solutions to meet 
individual client needs. With presence in over 60 
countries/territories and access to HSBC’s worldwide 
presence and capabilities, this business serves 
subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a global basis.
GB&M is managed as two principal business 
lines: Global Markets and Global Banking. This 
structure allows us to focus on relationships and 
sectors that best fit the Group’s footprint and facilitate 
seamless delivery of our products and services to 
clients. 
 
• Global Markets operations consist of treasury and capital 
markets services. Products include foreign exchange; currency, 
interest rate, bond, credit, equity and other derivatives; 
government and non-government fixed income and money 
market instruments; precious metals and exchange-traded 
futures; equity services; distribution of capital markets 
instruments; and securities services, including custody and 
clearing services and funds administration to both domestic 
and cross-border investors.  
• Global Banking offers financing, advisory and transaction 
services. Products include: 
– capital raising, advisory services, bilateral and syndicated 
lending, leveraged and acquisition finance, structured and 
project finance, lease finance and non-retail deposit taking; 
– international, regional and domestic payments and cash 
management services; and trade services for large corporate 
clients. 
 
 
Global Private Banking 
HSBC Private Bank is the principal marketing name of 
our private banking business, GPB. Utilising the most 
suitable products from the marketplace, GPB works 
with high net-worth clients to offer both traditional and 
innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while 
optimising returns. 
GPB has a global presence with major centres in 
Hong Kong, Singapore, London, Switzerland, Monaco, 
New York and Miami to identify opportunities which 
meet clients’ needs and investment strategies. 
 
• Private Banking services comprise multi-currency deposit 
accounts and fiduciary deposits, credit and specialist lending, 
treasury trading services, cash management, securities custody 
and clearing. GPB works to ensure that its clients have full 
access to other products and services available in HSBC such 
as credit cards, internet banking, corporate banking and 
investment banking. 
• Investment Management comprises both advisory and 
discretionary investment services. A wide range of investment 
vehicles is covered, including bonds, equities, derivatives, 
options, futures, structured products, mutual funds and 
alternatives (hedge funds, private equity and real estate). 
• Trust Solutions comprises inheritance planning, trustee 
and other fiduciary services designed to protect wealth and 
preserve it for future generations through structures tailored 
to meet the individual needs of each family. Areas of expertise 
include trusts, foundation and company administration, 
charitable trusts and foundations, insurance, family office 
advisory and philanthropy. 
• Corporate Finance Solutions helps provide clients with 
cross-border solutions for their companies, working in 
conjunction with GB&M. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > RBWM 
 
 
46 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
RBWM provides banking and wealth 
management services to individual 
customers across our principal 
geographic markets. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 24,101 24,166 25,099 
Net fee income .................. 8,226 8,397 9,138 
Other income .................... 1,206 1,048 2,060 
Net operating income
52
.... 33,533 33,611 36,297 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (9,319) (11,259) (19,902)
Net operating income ..... 24,214 22,352 16,395 
Total operating expenses .. (21,202) (19,539) (18,976)
Operating profit/(loss) .... 3,012 2,813 (2,581)
Income from associates
54
 .. 1,258 1,026 735 
Profit/(loss) before tax .... 4,270 3,839 (1,846)
RoRWA
55 
..........................  1.2%  1.1%  (0.5%) 
 
Strong revenue growth in  
faster-growing regions 
 
 
Run-off portfolio balances reduced by 
US$8.9bn 
 
 
Best Wealth Management House,  
Hong Kong 
(The Asset Triple A Investment Awards 2011) 
 
Strategic direction 
RBWM’s aim is to provide consistent and high quality retail 
banking and wealth management services to our customers.  
We will provide retail banking services in markets where we 
already have scale or where scale can be built over time and we 
will implement standardised distribution and service models to 
ensure we can deliver them more efficiently. As wealth creation 
continues to grow in both developed and faster-growing markets, 
we will leverage our global propositions such as Premier and our 
bancassurance and asset management capabilities to deepen our 
existing customer relationships and the penetration of our wealth 
management services. 
We focus on three strategic imperatives: 
• developing world class wealth management for retail customers;
• leveraging global expertise in retail banking; and  
• portfolio management to drive superior returns. 
For footnotes, see page 95.    
Review of performance  
• RBWM reported a profit before tax of 
US$4.3bn, 11% higher than 2010 and 6% higher 
on an underlying basis, most notably in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America, where the 
increased profitability reflected strong business 
and revenue growth.  
• The pre-tax profit of RBWM was significantly 
affected by the US Card and Retail Services 
business, of which we announced the pending 
sale, and the US run-off portfolios. 
RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
US Card and Retail Services 2,061  1,979 498 
US run-off portfolios ........... (4,472) (4,076) (5,065)
Rest of RBWM .................... 6,681 5,936 2,721 
 4,270 3,839 (1,846)
 
• Revenue was marginally lower than 2010, with 
strong growth in Latin America (9%) and Rest 
of Asia Pacific (8%) and modest growth in 
Hong Kong (3%) more than offset by lower 
revenues in North America from the continued 
run-off in the CML portfolios, lower balances in 
US Card and Retail Services and an increase in 
adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying 
hedges. 
• In Latin America, revenue growth reflected 
increased average lending and higher sales of 
unit-linked pensions and credit protection 
products in Brazil, together with business 
growth in Argentina on the back of favourable 
economic conditions. Gains on the sale and 
leaseback of branches in Mexico contributed 
US$36m to revenue growth. 
• Revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased, 
primarily as a result of significant lending 
growth in mortgages, notably in Australia and 
Singapore due to competitive product offerings 
and strong property markets, and increased 
deposit spreads in a number of countries such as 
mainland China and India. This was partly offset 
by narrower asset spreads reflecting competitive 
pressures. 
• In Hong Kong, revenues increased from sales 
of wealth management products, notably from 
insurance, reflecting successful sales activity 
and higher demand. This was partly offset by 
narrower asset spreads, reflecting a shift in the 
product mix to lower yielding, HIBOR-linked 
mortgages and competitive pressures.   
 
47 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions fell by 18% to US$9.3bn with a 
significant decline in North America as we 
continued to run off the CML portfolios, and as 
balances fell and delinquency rates improved in 
the Card and Retail Services business. 
Excluding our US Card and Retail Services and 
US run-off portfolios, loan impairment charges 
decreased by US$650m reflecting lower 
delinquency rates in the UK due to improved 
collections, and the managing down of 
unsecured lending portfolios in Rest of Asia-
Pacific and the Middle East, which more than 
offset increases in Latin America resulting from 
lending growth. 
• Operating expenses increased by 6% to 
US$21.2bn. Increased costs included US$875m 
of provisions relating to UK customer redress 
programmes, including a charge in respect of the 
possible mis-selling of PPI in the UK in 
previous years. This was partly offset by a 
US$264m credit resulting from a change in the 
inflation measure used to calculate the defined 
benefit obligation for deferred pensions, also in 
the UK. Restructuring costs were incurred 
during 2011 as we drove organisational change 
to reduce the cost base and exited certain 
markets or non-strategic lines of business. In 
North America, costs increased reflecting US 
mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs 
(US$257m) and increased litigation costs. 
• Costs were higher in Latin America, Rest of 
Asia-Pacific and Hong Kong as a result of wage 
inflation and higher average headcount to 
support business growth.  
• Share of profit from associates and joint 
ventures rose by 17%, reflecting higher profits 
from Ping An as a result of strong growth in 
sales in its insurance business and a rise in 
income from its banking business following the 
acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank in 
July 2011. 
Strategic imperatives 
Developing world class wealth management for 
retail customers 
• We aim to increase Wealth Management 
revenues by US$4bn in the medium term, 
against which target we made modest progress 
in 2011 with revenue growth of some US$300m. 
Notably, we had strong sales of insurance 
products in Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest 
of Asia-Pacific, while revenue from distribution 
of investment products to our clients and Global 
Asset Management was broadly unchanged, 
reflecting difficult market conditions, 
particularly in the second half of the year. 
• Growth in our insurance operations was largely 
driven by strong sales of unit-linked and 
deferred annuity products in Hong Kong and 
sales of unit-linked products in Brazil. We also 
benefited from a refinement to the calculation of 
the PVIF asset. Favourable trends during the 
first half of the year were partly offset by 
weaker investment returns in the second half of 
2011. 
• During the year, 62% of the qualifying 
population of HSBC Global Asset Management 
Funds ranked in the top half based on past 
performance against their peer and sector groups 
over a 3 year period, up from 47% in 2010. 
Global Asset Management also successfully 
launched an Asian High Yield Bond Fund 
raising US$1.2bn in 2011. 
• Our World Selection global investment offering 
continued to attract new assets as a core wealth 
solution for customers, resulting in total FuM of 
US$8.6bn at 31 December 2011 compared with 
US$7.2bn at 31 December 2010. During 2011 
we launched the Global Investment Centre in 
the UK, which will complement our existing 
services and deliver significant efficiencies to 
the way we are able to serve our Wealth 
Management customers. 
• Good progress was made in developing our 
Wealth Management infrastructure. In 2011 we 
implemented multi-channel financial simulators 
in the UK, a funds platform in Taiwan and the 
UK, and bond trading in mainland China and 
further deployed our foreign currency web-
enabled ‘Get Rate’ programme. These 
deployments are all part of the strategic focus to 
provide expanded Wealth Management services 
utilising common technology. 
Leveraging global expertise in retail banking 
• During 2011, we extended our mobile banking 
offering to 11 new markets. We launched our 
global cards platform in five new markets in 
Asia, with deployment in Brazil and Mexico 
due to be completed during 2012. We also 
introduced renminbi-denominated deposits in 
nine new markets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > RBWM / CMB 
 
 
48 
• In Hong Kong, we retained our position of 
having the largest market share in residential 
mortgages in 2011. We were also market leaders 
in life insurance. 
• For 2011 we set an aggressive goal to achieve 
our target customer recommendation in 75% by 
revenue weighting of the 16 markets surveyed, 
against which we met the target in five markets, 
or 35% by revenue weighting. The shortfall 
resulted mainly from a challenging environment 
in many of our large markets, with strong local 
competitors improving their service 
performance, and a negative reaction to some 
portfolio management activity, particularly in 
the US and Canada. We had a very strong fourth 
quarter, with 77% of the markets by revenue 
weighting meeting target, driven in part by 
traction from service quality programmes 
implemented in Mexico, the UK and the UAE, 
and we finished the year ranked first in 5 of the 
6 markets surveyed in Asia.  
Portfolio management to drive superior returns 
• During 2011, we embarked on a process to 
improve our return on capital using the five 
filters analysis to determine portfolio 
rationalisation initiatives. As a result, we 
completed the sale of our Mexican pension 
administration business (HSBC Afore), our UK 
motor insurance business and our Canadian 
brokerage business. We announced the closure 
of our retail banking businesses in Poland, 
Russia, Georgia, and Kuwait, the sale of our 
operations in Chile, Central America (Costa 
Rica, El Salvador and Honduras) and, most 
recently, the disposal of our retail operations in 
Thailand. We also announced the cessation of 
life insurance manufacturing in the US, the sale 
of the Card and Retail Services business and 
upstate New York branches in the US. 
• The North American business has continued to 
focus on managing down the residual balances 
in our US run-off portfolios. 
Commercial Banking 
CMB offers a full range of commercial 
financial services and tailored 
propositions to over 3.6m customers 
ranging from sole proprietors to 
publicly quoted companies in 
65 countries. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 9,931 8,487 7,883 
Net fee income .................. 4,291 3,964 3,702 
Other income .................... 1,389 1,383 1,268 
Net operating income
52
.... 15,611 13,834 12,853 
Impairment charges
53
......... (1,738) (1,805) (3,282)
Net operating income ...... 13,873 12,029 9,571 
Total operating expenses .. (7,221) (6,831) (5,963)
Operating profit .............. 6,652 5,198 3,608 
Income from associates
54
 .. 1,295 892 667 
Profit before tax .............. 7,947 6,090 4,275 
RoRWA
55
 .......................... 2.2%  2.0%  1.4% 
 
Record annual profit before tax 
US$7 .9bn 
Revenue growth of  
12% 
ahead of cost growth of 4% 
on an underlying basis 
 
 
Number one trade finance  
bank in the world  
(Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2011) 
 
Strategic direction 
CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for international 
businesses by building on our rich heritage, international 
capabilities and relationships to enable connectivity and support 
trade and capital flows around the world, thereby strengthening 
our leading position in international business and trade. 
We focus on four strategic imperatives: 
• focus on faster-growing markets while connecting revenue and 
investment flows with developed markets; 
• enhance collaboration with GB&M, providing capital market 
access and a wider range of sophisticated risk management and 
liquidity products to the growing mid-market corporates; 
• capture growth in international small and medium-sized 
enterprises; and 
• drive efficiency gains through adopting a global operating 
model. 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
      
49 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Review of performance 
• CMB reported a record profit before tax of 
US$7.9bn in 2011, 31% higher than in 2010. On 
an underlying basis, profit before tax increased 
by 30%, driven by increased net interest income, 
a higher share of profits from associates in 
mainland China and lower loan impairment 
charges. Our 20 priority markets generated more 
than 90% of our profit before tax, benefiting 
from our strong international network and long-
term approach to customer relationships.  
• Revenue grew by 12%, despite increasing 
economic, political and regulatory headwinds. 
This was largely driven by higher net interest 
income from lending activities and from growth 
in customer account balances. Net interest 
income from lending benefited from the strong 
customer loan growth achieved in 2010 which 
continued into 2011, albeit at a slower pace 
during the latter part of the year. Loans and 
advances to customers rose by 12% to 
US$262bn as a result of increased demand for 
credit in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin 
America and Europe. Average customer account 
balances also rose, reflecting successful 
marketing campaigns, notably in Hong Kong 
and Rest of Asia-Pacific as part of a targeted 
strategy to support growth in customer lending. 
Customer account balances grew by 9% to 
US$306bn during 2011. 
• Net fee income and net trading income benefited 
from the strong collaboration with GB&M, 
particularly in foreign exchange and interest rate 
management products. Net fee income also rose, 
reflecting strong volumes and market share in 
our trade and payments businesses in Hong 
Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America. 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions declined by 6% as credit quality 
remained strong despite the economic 
challenges. Specific impairments decreased, 
notably in North America, reflecting improved 
credit quality and in Business Banking lower 
delinquency levels, partly offset by a specific 
provision relating to a single commercial 
customer in Latin America. Collective 
impairment charges rose reflecting strong 
lending growth, notably in Latin America. 
• Operating expenses increased by 4%. This was 
driven by a rise in costs to support business 
growth, along with restructuring costs, partly 
offset by a credit of US$212m resulting from a 
change in the inflation measure used to calculate 
the defined benefit obligation for deferred 
pensions in the UK. Our cost efficiency ratio 
improved, reflecting our ability to manage our 
cost base and rising inflationary pressures while 
continuing to invest in key markets for ongoing 
expansion. 
• Income from associates increased by 41%. The 
contribution from BoCom was driven by strong 
lending growth, wider deposit spreads following 
interest rate rises in mainland China and higher 
fee income, including revenue earned from 
investment banking, settlements and cards. 
Income from Industrial Bank also increased as a 
result of strong growth in customer lending and 
a rise in fee-based revenue.  
Strategic imperatives 
Focus on faster-growing markets while 
connecting with developed markets 
• In line with our strategy to focus and invest in 
faster-growing markets, our operations in Rest 
of Asia-Pacific, Latin America, Hong Kong and 
the Middle East and North Africa expanded 
more quickly than in developed markets. 
Revenue from faster growing regions grew by 
20% to US$8.5bn, representing 54% of the 
CMB total, driven by Brazil, Hong Kong, 
mainland China, Mexico, Argentina and 
Singapore. Customer lending growth was almost 
twice that of Europe and North America, and 
accounted for 50% of CMB’s total lending. 
• Total trade and receivables finance revenues 
increased by 22% to US$2.6bn, of which 75% 
was generated from the faster-growing regions. 
Our businesses in these markets expanded more 
quickly than in developed regions as we 
leveraged our international capabilities to 
support our customers.   
• Making it easy for customers to do business 
with HSBC is at the heart of our approach. 
During 2011, we merged our Trade and Supply 
Chain and Receivables Finance businesses to 
enable us to streamline our product proposition. 
It will also help us to expand our Receivables 
Finance offering beyond its current locations 
and achieve our goal of doubling trade revenue 
over the medium term. We also rolled out our 
Commodity and Structured Trade Finance 
service, strengthening our sales teams in Europe 
and Asia and enhancing our infrastructure.  
• Revenue from our Payments and Cash 
Management products rose by 15%, as they 
facilitated increased levels of cross-border 
transactions. We continued to roll out the award  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > CMB / GB&M 
 
 
50 
winning ClientSphere platform in the regions to 
help simplify our customers’ cash management.  
• Successful cross-border referrals within CMB 
increased by 12% compared with 2010, with 
a total transaction value in 2011 of more than 
US$20bn. A significant proportion of this 
increase came from mainland China as Chinese 
companies looked to expand internationally. 
• We maintained our position as a leading 
international bank for renminbi products with 
services offered in over 50 countries. Our 
geographical coverage of renminbi cross-border 
trade services is the widest of all foreign banks 
in mainland China. We continue to develop new 
products in the currency, including renminbi 
structured deposits, renminbi cashier orders and 
the renminbi business card in Hong Kong. 
Strong partnership with GB&M  
• Our customers benefit significantly from our 
partnership with GB&M. By working with our 
colleagues in the GB&M product teams we are 
able to provide customers with financing 
solutions, including access to capital markets 
and risk management products, as they expand 
internationally. Revenues from sales of GB&M 
products to CMB customers, which are shared 
between the two global businesses, grew 
strongly in all regions, increasing by more than 
US$500m compared with 2010. This was 
primarily from foreign exchange activity but 
also interest rate management products, 
leveraged and acquisition finance and debt 
capital markets. 
• In collaboration with GB&M, we have 
successfully completed our first global US 
dollar/renminbi cross-currency swap. We are 
also able to benefit from our market leading 
status in offshore renminbi bonds. 
• We continued to work closely with the other 
global businesses. CMB referred 43% of the 
total net new money generated from internal 
referrals to GPB in 2011, and successful internal 
premier account referrals from CMB to RBWM 
increased by 27%. 
Capture growth in international SMEs 
• At the end of 2011, we had over 3.4m customers 
worldwide in Business Banking, which 
represented 54% of CMB’s total deposits. 
• To optimise our Business Banking portfolio 
performance, we are reshaping our business 
portfolio based on the five filters and 
accelerating investment to enhance our 
international connectivity, notably in those 
markets such as Brazil, Mexico, mainland 
China, the US, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore 
and Turkey which we see as core to providing 
opportunities for growth. 
• We are repositioning Business Banking to focus 
on attracting and better serving the growing 
number of internationally aspirant SMEs. In the 
UK we invested in International Commercial 
Managers (‘ICM’s) who focus exclusively on 
international customers and we will continue to 
invest in ICMs in other markets in 2012. 
• Partnerships with leading international 
businesses are helping to position HSBC as 
the bank of choice for international SMEs. In 
the US, we signed a partnership agreement 
with the Export-Import Bank in the US and in 
the UAE we entered into partnerships with a 
number of Free Trade Zones to provide 
improved access to banking services for 
internationally-oriented SMEs.  
• We exceeded our 2011 lending intentions under 
Project Merlin in the UK, both in terms of total 
and SME facilities. 
Drive efficiency gains through adopting a global 
operating model 
• During the second half of 2011 and continuing 
in 2012, we are rolling out a globally consistent 
business model across all CMB countries to 
realise cost efficiencies through greater 
standardisation of key processes and practices. 
This includes the deployment of streamlined 
cross-border account opening, trade processing 
and credit approval processes which will reduce 
the time it takes to bring new customers on 
board. We are also undertaking an 
organisational effectiveness review to align and 
standardise our business structures across 
countries, which will result in a reduction in 
staff numbers and will allow us to redeploy 
resources towards our key growth markets.  
• We continued to develop our direct banking 
solutions to enhance accessibility and service 
for our customers. HSBCnet, our internet 
banking platform, now has over 400,000 users 
with access from more than 200 countries 
worldwide. Following a successful pilot in the 
first half of 2011, HSBCnet Mobile was 
launched in more than 60 countries. In addition, 
over 200,000 customers have downloaded our 
iApp, which is now live in five countries.  
 
51 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and Markets 
GB&M is a global business which 
provides tailored financial solutions 
to major government, corporate and 
institutional clients worldwide. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 7,263 7,343 8,618 
Net fee income .................. 3,227 3,664 3,463 
Net trading income
56
 ......... 5,204 5,830 6,867 
Other income
 
..................... 1,363 2,075 1,990 
Net operating income
52 
... 17,057 18,912 20,938 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (984) (990) (3,168)
Net operating income ..... 16,073 17,922 17,770 
Total operating expenses .. (9,722) (9,228) (7,853)
Operating profit .............. 6,351 8,694 9,917 
Income from associates
54
 ... 698 521 345 
Profit before tax .............. 7,049 9,215 10,262 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  1.8%  2.5%  2.6% 
Resilient financial performance 
despite eurozone uncertainty 
Strong growth in Latin America 
and Rest of Asia-Pacific 
Bookrunner in six of the 10 
largest IPOs in Hong Kong in 2011  
Strategic direction 
GB&M continues to pursue its well established ‘emerging 
markets-led and financing-focused’ strategy, with the objective of 
being a leading global wholesale bank. This strategy has evolved 
to include a greater emphasis on connectivity, leveraging the 
Group’s extensive distribution network. 
We focus on four strategic imperatives: 
• reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions for major 
government, corporate and institutional clients; 
• continue to selectively invest in the business to support the 
delivery of an integrated suite of products and services; 
• enhance collaboration with other global businesses, particularly 
CMB, to deliver incremental revenues; and 
• focus on business re-engineering to optimise operational 
efficiency and reduce costs. 
For footnotes, see page 95.   
Review of performance 
• GB&M reported profit before tax of US$7.0bn, 
24% lower than in 2010 as eurozone debt 
concerns continued to dominate European 
market sentiment. On an underlying basis, profit 
before tax declined by 23% as a result of lower 
revenues in Credit, Rates and Balance Sheet 
Management. Notwithstanding the difficult 
trading conditions, revenue grew strongly in 
over half of our lines of business, including 
Global Banking, Foreign Exchange and Equities, 
and particularly in the faster-growing regions 
of Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America.  
• Overall, Revenue fell by 10%. This was 
primarily due to significantly lower trading 
revenues in Credit and Rates, notably in Europe, 
despite higher gains on structured liabilities 
from widening credit spreads, as turmoil in 
eurozone sovereign debt markets escalated, 
particularly in the second half of 2011, resulting 
in trading losses as increased risk aversion and 
limited client activity led to a significant 
widening of spreads on certain eurozone 
sovereign and corporate bonds. Balance Sheet 
Management reported lower revenues and 
revenues from our legacy credit portfolio (see 
page 23) also declined.  
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions of US$984m in 2011 were broadly in 
line with 2010. Loan impairment charges 
declined by US$62m as specific impairments 
taken in 2010 following the restructuring of 
exposures of a small number of large clients in 
the Middle East and North Africa did not recur. 
Credit risk provisions on the available-for-sale 
portfolio were slightly higher than in 2010. A 
US$145m charge in respect of available-for-sale 
Greek sovereign debt was offset in part by a 
reduction in credit risk provisions on ABSs 
within our legacy credit portfolio from 
US$444m reported in 2010 to US$409m, as 
losses arising in underlying collateral pools 
generated lower impairment charges on ABSs. 
• Operating expenses increased by 4%, reflecting 
a rise in costs incurred in strengthening our 
compliance resources, predominantly in the US; 
targeted investment, including selective 
recruitment of senior hires and development of 
our trading and sales platforms; and 
restructuring in the form of various 
organisational efficiency initiatives. Performance-
related awards were substantially lower than in 
2010, reflecting the decline in net  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GB&M 
 
 
52 
Management view of total operating 
income/(expense) 
 
2011 
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
2009
 
US$m 
Global Markets
57
 ............... 8,098  9,173 10,364 
Credit ............................ 335  1,649 2,330
Rates ............................. 1,341  2,052 2,648
Foreign Exchange ......... 3,272  2,752 2,979
Equities ......................... 961  755 641
Securities Services ........ 1,673  1,511 1,420
Asset and Structured 
Finance ....................... 516  454 346
Global Banking ................. 5,401  4,621 4,630 
Financing and Equity 
Capital Markets ......... 3,233  2,852 3,070
Payments and Cash 
Management
58
 ............ 1,534  1,133 1,053
Other transaction 
services
59
 .................... 634  636 507
Balance Sheet  
Management
60
 ............... 3,488  4,102 5,390 
Principal Investments ....... 209  319 42 
Other
61
 ............................... (139) 697 512 
Total operating income ..... 17,057  18,912 20,938 
Comparative information has been adjusted to reflect the 
current management view. 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
operating income, although this was mostly offset by 
higher amortisation charges for previous years’ 
performance shares and accelerated expense 
recognition of current year deferred bonus awards. 
Cost growth was partly offset by a credit of 
US$111m in 2011 arising from a change in the 
inflation measure used to calculate the defined 
benefit obligation for deferred pensions in the UK, 
together with the non-recurrence of payroll and 
bonus taxes in the UK and France in 2010.  
• Global Markets delivered full year revenues of 
US$8.1bn in a very challenging trading environment. 
As noted above, the decline was driven by 
significantly lower Credit and Rates trading revenues 
in Europe. A sharp reduction in revenues from our 
legacy credit portfolio, which decreased from 
US$848m reported in 2010 to US$165m in 2011, 
also contributed to the decline in Credit. This 
reflected a non-recurrence of the price appreciation 
in 2010 and lower holdings as a result of maturities 
and disposals aimed at reducing capital 
consumption, together with a reduction in effective 
yields and lower income from management services 
generated from the securities investment conduits. 
This was partly offset by resilient Rates trading 
revenues in Hong Kong, North America and Latin 
America as client flows increased, coupled with 
higher primary market revenues in the Rates 
business in most regions as we increased our market 
share of global bond issuances. Fair value gains on 
structured liabilities also increased, mainly in Rates, 
as credit spreads widened more significantly than in 
2010, resulting in a gain of US$458m compared with 
a reported gain of US$23m in 2010.   
• Other parts of Global Markets performed strongly. In 
our Equities business, revenues rose as investment in 
platforms improved our competitive positioning and 
helped capture increased client flows, notably in the 
first half of the year in Europe and Hong Kong. 
Foreign Exchange also delivered a strong 
performance in the year, driven by increased client 
activity in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, North 
America and Latin America. Market volatility during 
2011, caused by geopolitical tensions, ongoing 
eurozone concerns and interventions by central 
banks, resulted in an improved trading environment 
for Foreign Exchange compared with 2010. In 
addition, increased client demand and a rally in 
precious metal prices led to significant revenue 
growth in our metals business, also reported within 
Foreign Exchange. Securities Services revenues 
increased as interest income benefited from higher 
spreads in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America. 
Fee income also rose, reflecting higher transaction 
volumes along with a rise in average assets under 
custody and administration. 
• Global Banking delivered a strong performance as 
we continued to focus on key client relationships. 
Higher revenues in Financing and Equity Capital 
Markets reflected a rise in average corporate lending 
balances, continued new business origination in 
project and export finance and lower losses on 
portfolio hedges compared with 2010. Revenues in 
the advisory business within Financing and Equity 
Capital Markets also increased, notably in Europe, 
driven by success in cross-border transactions. 
Payments and Cash Management revenue rose by 
32%, despite the prolonged low interest rate 
environment in many developed markets, as robust 
growth in liability balances led to higher net interest 
income. The Rest of Asia-Pacific region performed 
particularly strongly, reflecting a combination of 
strong sales activity and interest rate rises in some 
Asian markets, notably in mainland China. 
• Revenues in Balance Sheet Management declined, 
driven by the maturity of higher yielding positions, 
limited opportunities for reinvestment in the 
prevailing low interest rate environment, and 
flattening yield curves. 
• On a reported basis, the decline in Other reflected 
the non-recurrence of gains resulting from the sale of 
Eversholt Rail Group and HSBC Private Equity 
(Asia) Ltd in 2010. On an underlying basis, the   
53 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
reduction was driven by higher allocated funding 
costs, mainly in Europe, reflecting debt issuances 
during the year. 
• Principal Investments reported lower revenues as the 
deterioration in market confidence resulted in fewer 
disposal opportunities and lower gains on sale. 
Strategic imperatives 
Reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions 
• Investment in selective recruitment across our client 
coverage groups is key to delivering our strategy. 
Since June 2011, we have announced a number of 
key appointments to lead our global coverage teams 
and relocated a Co-Head of Global Banking to Asia 
to maintain our focus on growth markets. 
• We also established the Corporate Treasury 
Solutions Group, which brought together our fixed 
income, currency, commodities, debt financing and 
risk management capabilities in Europe, Middle East 
and North Africa. This enabled our client-facing 
teams to provide integrated, cross-product solutions 
to our corporate clients. 
• We continued to leverage our unique geographical 
franchise and global connectivity through our 
multinational proposition. Cross-border desks 
established in 2010 in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin 
America and the Middle East and North Africa to 
capitalise on growing international trade flows in 
‘South-South’ trade corridors generated strong 
growth in revenues from these markets in 2011. 
Enhance core product strengths and selectively 
develop new capabilities 
• We continued to invest in e-commerce platforms to 
enhance our product offerings in foreign exchange. 
The first phase of our new e-FX platform is 
complete and it is live internally in Hong Kong, 
Dubai, London, Toronto and New York. Get Rate, 
which provides customers with live dealable 
exchange rates, is now available in 11 countries 
through various channels. These developments have 
contributed to a 43% increase in electronic volumes 
and a 16% rise in foreign exchange revenues in 
2011. 
• Prime Services, which offers a fully integrated set of 
services including custody, financing solutions and 
reporting to alternative fund managers, is now live 
in Europe and Asia and a significant number of 
hedge fund managers are in the process of on-
boarding.  
• We also upgraded our equity execution and research 
platforms in 2011 in response to client demand, 
focusing on selected European countries and faster 
growing markets where we have a natural 
advantage. Our Equity Capital Markets team 
achieved Top 10 league table positions in six out of 
nine target countries, as well as significant market 
share improvement in Asia and other key locations. 
We also strengthened our Equity Research team 
which, together with targeted client interaction, 
enabled us to move into the top ten of equity 
research houses for the first time. 
Collaborate with other global businesses to deliver 
incremental revenues 
• In order to further enhance our collaboration with 
CMB, we appointed heads of Coverage and 
Distribution to coordinate the specialist CMB sales 
teams and dedicated execution desks within GB&M. 
Revenues from the sale of GB&M products to CMB 
customers, which are shared between the two global 
businesses, grew by more than US$500m, primarily 
from foreign exchange and interest rate management 
products. In addition, we secured lead roles in a 
number of event deals with CMB clients in 2011, 
utilising our expertise in equity and debt capital 
markets, leveraged and acquisition finance and 
advisory. 
• We extended the Wealth Solutions Group model 
from Europe, Middle East and North Africa into 
Asia and the US to increase the sales of GB&M’s 
wealth-related products, including foreign exchange, 
structured products and securities execution, through 
RBWM channels. We also developed new products 
aligned to customer needs, including Protected 
World Selection funds and mortgage protection 
products in the UK, which have led to growth in 
revenues from our RBWM distribution network. 
Strategic re-engineering to deliver sustainable cost 
savings 
• We continued to reshape our business with the aim 
of lowering the future cost base of our operations. 
We undertook an organisational effectiveness 
review, which resulted in a reduction in staff 
numbers as we aligned our client coverage model 
and implemented productivity measures. 
• We focused on generating efficiency gains from the 
better use of technology and continued to rationalise 
and standardise our operational and trading 
platforms across asset classes and markets. This will 
enable ongoing investment in people and 
infrastructure to support our strategic priorities while 
minimising cost growth.  
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GPB / Other 
 
 
54 
Global Private Banking 
GPB serves high net worth individuals 
and families with complex and 
international needs. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 1,439 1,345 1,474 
Net fee income .................. 1,382 1,299 1,236 
Other income .................... 471 449 402 
Net operating income
52 
... 3,292 3,093 3,112 
Impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries
53
 .................... (86) 12 (128)
Net operating income ..... 3,206 3,105 2,984 
Total operating expenses .. (2,266) (2,035) (1,884)
Operating profit .............. 940 1,070 1,100 
Income from associates
54
 .. 4 (16) 8 
Profit before tax .............. 944 1,054 1,108 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  3.9%   4.1%  4.0% 
 
 
Net new money inflows of  
US$13bn 
2010: US$13bn; 2009: US$(7)bn 
 
 
 
Continued investment in front-line  
capabilities in line with strategy 
 
 
 
Best Private Banking in Asia  
(Euromoney 2011 Private Banking Survey) 
 
 
Strategic direction 
GPB works with high-net worth clients to manage and preserve 
their wealth while connecting them to global opportunities. We 
focus on four strategic imperatives: 
• further expand our business in domestic and faster-growing 
markets and deliver emerging markets products to clients in 
developed markets; 
• continue to leverage our intra-Group connectivity with CMB, 
GB&M and RBWM to deliver the full suite of HSBC products 
and services to clients;  
• increase our managed assets, and build on our expertise in 
alternative investments, foreign exchange and trust and estate 
planning; and 
• continue to invest in front-office client systems with strong data 
security, while maintaining a focus on risk management and 
cost control. 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
 
   
Review of performance 
• Reported profit before tax of US$944m was 
10% lower than in 2010 and 11% lower on an 
underlying basis, as revenue growth was offset 
by higher operating expenses and increased loan 
impairment charges. 
• Revenue increased by 5%, primarily driven by 
growth in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in Rest 
of Asia-Pacific. Net interest income increased 
due to higher average lending resulting from 
continued client demand and, particularly in the 
UK, improved asset spreads. Net fee income 
benefited from a significant increase in 
transaction volumes related to higher market 
volatility and net new money inflows of 
US$13bn in part driven by the recruitment of 
additional front line staff particularly in 
faster-growing markets. 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions increased as a result of an impairment 
recorded in respect of available-for-sale Greek 
sovereign debt securities. Loan impairment 
charges also increased in Europe against a small 
number of individual customers. 
• The increase in operating expenses was mainly 
driven by the appreciation of the Swiss franc, 
which accounts for a significant proportion of 
our cost base, (see footnote 62). In addition we 
incurred higher regulatory compliance costs. We 
also recruited front office staff to cover 
faster-growing markets which resulted in higher 
staff costs, coupled with restructuring costs to 
drive operational efficiencies. 
Client assets 
 2011 2010 
 US$bn US$bn 
At 1 January ....................................... 390 367 
Net new money .................................. 13 13 
Value change ...................................... (20) 13 
Exchange and other ............................ (6) (3)
At 31 December ................................. 377 390 
• Client assets (see footnote 63), which include 
funds under management and cash deposits, 
declined as net new money inflows were offset 
by adverse movements in financial markets and 
negative movements in foreign exchange, 
primarily in the second half of the year. 
• ‘Total client assets’, the equivalent to many 
industry definitions of assets under management 
which include some non-financial assets held in 
client trusts, decreased marginally to US$496bn 
at 31 December 2011.    
55 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Strategic imperatives 
Expand in faster-growing markets 
• Progress was made in implementing key 
strategic initiatives, including developing the 
faster-growing markets business through 
investment in front line staff and systems. The 
majority of net new money in 2011 has 
originated from faster-growing markets.  
Grow annuity revenue 
• Product capabilities were enhanced with the 
launch of renminbi-based products and further 
development of our alternative investment 
offerings and trust and estate planning products. 
Leverage intra-Group strengths 
• Intra-Group referrals contributed net new money 
of US$6.3bn or 49% of total net new money. 
• Referrals from GB&M for institutional private 
clients grew significantly, and benefited from 
the continued success of the Family Office 
advisory scheme. 
Invest in platform while controlling costs 
• The global roll-out of the front-office systems 
programme continued in order to improve 
operational efficiency and client service, and 
information security standards were enhanced. 
Progress was made in rationalising the business, 
through the use of the five filters analysis, with 
the closure of operations in Russia and sale of 
our operations in Japan. A restructuring exercise 
is also underway in line with our targets to 
improve operational effectiveness, reflected in a 
4% reduction in staff numbers in the second half 
of 2011.  
Other 
‘Other’ contains the results of certain 
property transactions, unallocated 
investment activities, centrally held 
investment companies, movements in 
fair value of own debt, central support 
and functional costs with associated 
recoveries, HSBC’s holding company and 
financing operations. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest expense .......... (911) (998) (1,035)
Net trading income/ 
(expense) ........................ (355) (311) 279 
Change in credit spread 
on long-term debt ........... 4,161 (258) (6,247)
Other changes in fair  
value ............................... 78 42 (196)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value .. 4,239 (216) (6,443)
Other income .................... 6,172 6,185 5,176 
Net operating income/ 
(expense)
52
...................... 9,145 4,660 (2,023)
Impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries
53
 ..................... – 3 (8)
Net operating income/ 
(expense) ........................ 9,145 4,663 (2,031)
Total operating expenses .. (7,492) (5,918) (4,715)
Operating profit/(loss) .... 1,653 (1,255) (6,746)
Income from associates
54
 .. 9 94 26 
Profit/(loss) before tax .... 1,662 (1,161) (6,720)
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Other / Analysis 
 
 
56 
Notes 
• Reported profit before tax of US$1.7bn 
compared with a loss before tax of US$1.2bn in 
2010. This included favourable movements of 
US$3.9bn on the fair value of HSBC’s own debt 
attributable to a widening in credit spreads 
compared with adverse fair value movements of 
US$63m in 2010. In addition, reported profits 
included a gain of US$62m on the 
reclassification of Bao Viet as an associate in 
2010 and accounting gains of US$188m and 
US$181m in 2010 and 2011, respectively, 
arising from the dilution of our shareholding in 
Ping An following its issue of share capital to 
third parties. We also reported a re-measurement 
loss of US$48m relating to Ping An’s 
acquisition of its associate, Shenzhen 
Development Bank and a dilution gain of 
US$27m as a result of the reduction in our 
holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited 
following its merger with SABB Securities 
Limited in 2011. On an underlying basis, the 
loss before tax increased by US$1.1bn to 
US$2.4bn. This was primarily driven by the UK 
bank levy, restructuring provisions and the non-
recurrence of gains from the sale and leaseback 
of buildings in 2010. For a description of the 
main items reported under ‘Other’, see 
footnote 61. 
• Net trading expense rose, driven by adverse fair 
value movements on derivatives relating to 
certain provident funds in Hong Kong as 
long-term investment returns fell. This was 
partly offset by lower adverse fair value 
movements on non-qualifying hedges of 
US$276m in 2011 compared with adverse fair 
value movements of US$304m in 2010. These 
mainly related to cross-currency swaps used to 
economically hedge fixed rate long-term debt 
issued by HSBC Holdings. 
• Net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value of US$304m in 2011 
compared with net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair value in 2010 as 
favourable fair value movements from interest 
and exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging 
of long-term debt designated at fair value issued 
by HSBC Holdings and our European and North 
American subsidiaries compared with adverse 
fair value movements in 2010. 
• Other operating income increased as a result of 
higher intra-group recharges in line with the 
increase in costs from centralised operational 
and migrated activities described below. This 
was partly offset by the non-recurrence of gains 
of US$250m recognised from the sale and 
leaseback of our Paris and New York 
headquarters in 2010. 
• Operating expenses increased by 26% to 
US$7.5bn. Costs in 2011 included a charge of 
US$570m in relation to the UK bank levy and a 
charge of US$217m, primarily relating to 
impairment of intangibles and staff related costs, 
to restructure our regional and country support 
functions in Latin America as measures were 
taken to streamline processes and lower the 
future cost base of our operations. A rise in 
centralised operational and migrated activities, 
in line with our Global Resourcing model, also 
contributed to higher costs in the period. These 
costs are recorded in ‘Other’ and charged to 
global businesses through a recharge mechanism 
with income reported as ‘Other operating 
income’. 
   
 
 
57 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Analysis by global business 
HSBC profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other
48
 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 24,101  9,931 7,263 1,439 (911) (1,161) 40,662 
Net fee income ............................. 8,226  4,291 3,227 1,382 34  –   17,160 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income ..................................... (562)  565 3,306 415 (441) –   3,283 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... 43   19 1,898 16 86  1,161  3,223 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... (519) 584 5,204 431 (355) 1,161  6,506 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – 4,161 – 4,161
Net income from other  
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (761)  33 (72) – 78 – (722)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (761) 33 (72) –   4,239  –   3,439 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 124  20 761 3 (1) –   907 
Dividend income .......................... 27  15 75 7 25  –   149 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 10,882  1,956 47 –   (13) –   12,872 
Other operating income ............... 907  483 577 30 6,127  (6,358)  1,766 
Total operating income ............. 42,987  17,313 17,082 3,292 9,145  (6,358) 83,461 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (9,454) (1,702) (25) –   –   –   (11,181)
Net operating income
52
 .............. 33,533  15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145  (6,358) 72,280 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (9,319) (1,738) (984) (86) –   –   (12,127)
Net operating income ................ 24,214  13,873 16,073 3,206 9,145  (6,358) 60,153 
Employee expenses
66
.................... (6,538)  (2,184) (4,196) (1,351) (6,897) –   (21,166)
Other operating expenses ............ (14,664)  (5,037) (5,526) (915) (595) 6,358  (20,379)
Total operating expenses ............. (21,202) (7,221) (9,722) (2,266) (7,492) 6,358  (41,545)
Operating profit ......................... 3,012  6,652 6,351 940 1,653  –   18,608 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 1,258  1,295 698 4 9  –   3,264 
Profit before tax ......................... 4,270  7,947 7,049 944 1,662  –   21,872 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  19.6    36.3  32.2  4.3  7.6      100.0 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  63.2    46.3  57.0  68.8  81.9      57.5 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 357,907 262,039 276,463 41,856 2,164  940,429 
Total assets 
 
.................................. 540,548  334,966 1,877,627 119,839 180,126  (497,527) 2,555,579 
Customer accounts ....................... 529,017 306,174 306,454 111,814 466  1,253,925 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Analysis // Geographical regions > Summary 
 
 
58 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued) 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global 
 Banking 
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other
48
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 24,166  8,487 7,343 1,345 (998) (902) 39,441 
Net fee income ............................. 8,397  3,964 3,664 1,299 31  – 17,355 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income ..................................... (106)  427 4,326 391 (358) – 4,680 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... 28   28 1,504 21 47  902  2,530 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... (78) 455 5,830 412 (311) 902  7,210 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – (258) – (258)
Net income from other  
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 1,210  190 36 – 42 – 1,478
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 1,210 190 36 – (216) – 1,220 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... (24) (1) 863 (6) 136  – 968 
Dividend income .......................... 27  12 48 5 20  – 112 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 9,737  1,379 41 – (11) – 11,146 
Other operating income ............... 684  585 1,113 38 6,005  (5,863) 2,562 
Total operating income ................ 44,119  15,071 18,938 3,093 4,656  (5,863) 80,014 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (10,508) (1,237) (26) – 4  – (11,767)
Net operating income
52
 ................ 33,611  13,834 18,912 3,093 4,660  (5,863) 68,247 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ......................... (11,259) (1,805) (990) 12 3  – (14,039)
Net operating income .................. 22,352  12,029 17,922 3,105 4,663  (5,863) 54,208 
Employee expenses
66
 ................... (5,770)  (2,153) (4,353) (1,237) (6,323) – (19,836)
Other operating expenses ............ (13,769)  (4,678) (4,875) (798) 405 5,863 (17,852)
Total operating expenses ............. (19,539) (6,831) (9,228) (2,035) (5,918) 5,863  (37,688)
Operating profit/(loss) ................. 2,813 5,198 8,694 1,070 (1,255) – 16,520 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 1,026  892 521 (16) 94  – 2,517 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................. 3,839  6,090 9,215 1,054 (1,161) – 19,037 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  20.2    32.0  48.4  5.5  (6.1)     100.0 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  58.1    49.4  48.8  65.8  127.0      55.2 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 390,963 239,286 284,497 40,665 2,955  958,366 
Total assets 
 
.................................. 530,970  296,797 1,755,043 116,846 161,458  (406,425) 2,454,689 
Customer accounts ....................... 525,221 286,007 308,416 107,130 951  1,227,725 
For footnotes, see page 95.   
59 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Geographical regions 
 Page
Summary ....................................................................... 59
Europe ........................................................................... 60
Hong Kong ................................................................... 66
Rest of Asia-Pacific ...................................................... 71
Middle East and North Africa ...................................... 77
North America .............................................................. 82
Latin America ............................................................... 89
 
Summary 
Additional information on results in 2011 may be 
found in the ‘Financial Summary’ on pages 16 to 42. 
In the analysis of profit by geographical regions 
that follows, operating income and operating expenses 
include intra-HSBC items of US$3,421m (2010: 
US$3,125m; 2009: US$2,756m). 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m  % US$m  % US$m  % 
Europe .................................................................... 4,671 21.3 4,302  22.6 4,009   56.7 
Hong Kong ............................................................ 5,823 26.6 5,692  29.9 5,029   71.0 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ............................................... 7,471 34.2 5,902  31.0 4,200   59.3 
Middle East and North Africa ............................... 1,492 6.8 892  4.7 455   6.4 
North America ....................................................... 100 0.5 454  2.4 (7,738) (109.3)
Latin America ........................................................ 2,315 10.6 1,795  9.4 1,124   15.9 
 21,872 100.0 19,037  100.0  7,079   100.0 
Total assets
49
 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  % US$m  % 
Europe ..................................................................................................................... 1,281,945 50.3 1,249,527   50.9 
Hong Kong ............................................................................................................. 473,024 18.5 429,565   17.5 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................ 317,816 12.4 278,062   11.3 
Middle East and North Africa ................................................................................ 57,464 2.2 52,757   2.1 
North America ........................................................................................................ 504,302 19.7 492,487   20.1 
Latin America ......................................................................................................... 144,889 5.7 139,938   5.7 
Intra-HSBC items ................................................................................................... (223,861) (8.8) (187,647) (7.6)
 2,555,579  100.0 2,454,689   100.0 
Risk-weighted assets
67
 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
  US$bn  %  US$bn  % 
Total ........................................................................................................................ 1209.5   1,103.1  
Europe ..................................................................................................................... 340.2 27.8  301.6  27.2 
Hong Kong ............................................................................................................. 105.7 8.6  106.9  9.7 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................ 279.3 22.8  217.5  19.6 
Middle East and North Africa ................................................................................ 58.9 4.8  54.1  4.9 
North America ........................................................................................................ 337.3 27.6  330.7  29.9 
Latin America ......................................................................................................... 102.3 8.4  95.9  8.7 
For footnotes, see page 95.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
 
 
60 
Europe 
Our principal banking subsidiaries in Europe 
are HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France S.A., 
HSBC Bank A.S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta 
p.l.c., HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) S.A. and 
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Through these 
subsidiaries we provide a wide range of 
banking, treasury and financial services to 
personal, commercial and corporate customers 
across Europe. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 11,001 11,250 12,268 
Net fee income .................. 6,236 6,371 6,267 
Net trading income ........... 2,161 2,863 5,459 
Other income/(expense) .... 4,848 2,266 (450)
Net operating income
52 
... 24,246 22,750 23,544 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (2,512) (3,020) (5,568)
Net operating income ..... 21,734 19,730 17,976 
Total operating expenses .. (17,069) (15,445) (13,988)
Operating profit .............. 4,665 4,285 3,988 
Income from associates
54
 .. 6 17 21 
Profit before tax .............. 4,671 4,302 4,009 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  70.4%   67.9%  59.4% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  1.5%   1.3%  1.2% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 74,892 75,698 76,703 
Credit and Rates  
revenues within GB&M  
adversely affected by  
eurozone uncertainty 
Best Debt House in Western Europe 
(Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2011) 
  
 
53% 
reduction in RBWM  
loan impairment charges 
 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on Europe is on an underlying basis unless stated 
otherwise. 
 
Economic background  
After growing by 2.1% in 2010, UK gross domestic 
product (‘GDP’) growth eased to 0.9% in 2011. The 
unemployment rate rose to 8.4% in December 2011. 
Despite the weakness in the domestic economy, an 
increase in the rate of value added tax and rising oil 
prices early in the year pushed the annual rate of 
consumer price index (‘CPI’) inflation to 5.2% in 
September 2011 before moderating to 3.6% in 
December 2011. The Bank of England maintained 
the Bank Rate at 0.5% throughout the year and 
expanded the size of its Asset Purchase Programme 
by £75bn (US$120bn) to £275bn (US$440bn) in 
October 2011. 
The eurozone economy grew by 1.5% in 2011, 
on the back of a recovery in global trade in the first 
half of 2011 and domestic fixed investment growth. 
Within the region, Germany saw the strongest 
recovery with GDP growing by 3%. The German 
unemployment rate, as measured by the International 
Labour Organisation, fell during the year, touching 
5.5% in December but, for the eurozone as a whole, 
unemployment rose further to 10.4% in December. 
Concerns about sovereign debt sustainability 
persisted in 2011, leading to banking sector strains. 
The European Central Bank cut interest rates to 1% 
and introduced several new measures to ease strains 
in the banking sector including long-term 
refinancing operations of 36 months maturity and 
easing of commercial banks’ collateral requirements 
for use in these liquidity operations. 
Review of performance 
Our European operations reported a pre-tax profit of 
US$4.7bn, 9% higher than in 2010. These results 
included favourable fair value movements of 
US$2.9bn in 2011 due to the change in credit 
spreads on the Group’s own debt held at fair value, 
compared with adverse fair value movements of 
US$198m in 2010. In addition, 2010 included gains 
of US$107m and US$255m on the disposal of HSBC 
Insurance Brokers Limited and Eversholt Rail 
Group, respectively. 
Underlying profit before tax, excluding these 
items, decreased by 61% as turmoil in eurozone 
sovereign debt markets dominated European market 
sentiment, resulting in markedly lower revenues in 
GB&M.  
During the year, we began to reshape our 
business portfolio and announced the closure of our 
retail banking businesses in Poland and Russia, the 
exit of operations from Georgia and the disposal of 
our UK motor insurance business. In order to   
 
61 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth
Management
17
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and
 Markets
17 
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m  
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
2011       
UK ......................................................... 1,330 1,227 (265) 192 1,037 3,521 
France
44
 ................................................. 69 192 (194) 16 18 101 
Germany ............................................... 36 69 203 28 16 352 
Malta ..................................................... 31 72 21 – – 124 
Switzerland ........................................... – (8) – 225 – 217 
Turkey ................................................... 7 62 87 2 (0) 158 
Other ..................................................... (151) 73 225 94 (43) 198 
 1,322 1,687 77 557 1,028 4,671 
2010       
UK ......................................................... 1,181 827 1,772 223 (1,605) 2,398 
France
44
 ................................................. 138 135 376 18 26 693 
Germany ............................................... 36 32 231 30 4 333 
Malta ..................................................... 37 56 17 – – 110 
Switzerland ........................................... – (5) – 265 – 260 
Turkey ................................................... 64 80 105 1 – 250 
Other ..................................................... (144) 80 202 103 17 258 
 1,312 1,205 2,703 640 (1,558) 4,302 
2009       
UK ......................................................... 331 1,026 3,078 252 (2,561) 2,126 
France
44
 ................................................. 67 102 881 3 (429) 624 
Germany ............................................... 34 21 221 32 (18) 290 
Malta ..................................................... 33 58 9 – – 100 
Switzerland ........................................... – – 5 448 (3) 450 
Turkey ................................................... 43 97 119 2 – 261 
Other ..................................................... (183) (12) 219 117 17  158 
 325 1,292 4,532 854 (2,994) 4,009 
For footnote, see page 95.
improve cost efficiency and organisational 
effectiveness, we took measures to streamline our 
processes with the aim of lowering the future cost 
base of our operations while maintaining high 
standards of service. As a result of these initiatives, 
total restructuring costs of US$404m were incurred 
across the region in 2011. 
In RBWM, further progress was made in 
implementing our strategy of building long-term 
sustainable relationships with Premier customers. 
The Wealth Management business continued to 
develop with HSBC World Selection assets under 
management increasing by 21% during 2011 to 
£2.5bn (US$3.8bn) as a result of a strategic focus 
and continued marketing. The Global Investment 
Centre service was successfully launched in October 
2011, enabling investors to hold and trade a wide 
range of third party and HSBC funds on-line. 
We continued to support the UK housing market 
during 2011, achieving strong growth in mortgage 
balances driven by successful marketing campaigns. 
Our share of new lending increased to 10% in 2011, 
while maintaining a conservative loan to value ratio 
of 53% on new lending. To support our customers 
through the prevailing economic conditions, we 
committed to make available £350m (US$542m) to 
UK mortgage borrowers with deposits of 15% or 
less. In addition, an increase in the customer base of 
5% contributed to a growth in our UK deposit 
balances of 4%. 
In CMB, we made further progress on our 
strategy of becoming the leading international trade 
and business bank with a significant increase in the 
number of international customers, resulting in 
strong income growth from our trade-related 
business. We continue to strengthen our partnership 
with GB&M with a focus on driving product income 
growth, particularly in strategic financing and 
treasury risk management products. We also 
achieved strong growth in UK lending, reflecting 
our continued support to UK businesses during the 
difficult economic conditions. We exceeded our 
2011 lending intentions under the Project Merlin 
agreement with the UK Government, both in terms 
of total and SME facilities.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
 
 
62 
In Continental Europe, we experienced strong 
demand in term lending and significant growth in 
our deposit base in both RBWM and CMB, 
reflecting marketing and pricing initiatives. Our 
Trade and Supply Chain business performed strongly 
across the region, following the launch of our export 
initiative during 2011. In Europe we now have 18 
countries with full renminbi functionality with the 
ability to settle trade transactions via either Shanghai 
or Hong Kong. 
We won several awards in GB&M including 
‘Best Debt House’ in Western Europe and the UK 
from Euromoney Awards for Excellence in 2011. 
We continued to invest in technology platforms 
including Equities and Prime Services and are 
therefore well positioned to capture medium-term 
opportunities in the region. We also continued to 
focus on cross-border initiatives to position 
ourselves to take advantage of trade flows. In 
Payments & Cash Management, enhanced network 
capabilities together with innovative liquidity, 
channel and payables solutions allowed us to win 
substantial business across the corporate and 
financial institution business segments. 
In GPB, revenue growth was driven by increased 
client activity as we leveraged our global businesses’ 
strengths and connectivity. GPB continues to build 
on its expertise in alternative investments, emerging 
markets and foreign exchange. 
The pace of regulatory reform is expected to gain 
momentum. This will include forthcoming 
legislation arising from the UK Independent 
Commission on Banking which is likely to require us 
to make significant changes to our corporate 
structure and business activities conducted through 
our UK banking subsidiary, HSBC Bank (see 
page 101. 
Net interest income decreased by 6%, reflecting 
the decline in Balance Sheet Management revenues 
as higher-yielding positions matured and 
opportunities for reinvestment at similar yields were 
limited by the prevailing low interest rate 
environment. This was coupled with a fall in Credit 
and Lending net interest income as a result of lower 
balances, coupled with a decrease in effective yields 
and lower asset holdings in our legacy credit 
portfolio as a result of maturities and disposals 
aimed at reducing capital consumption. The above 
factors were partly offset by higher net interest 
income in CMB, driven by an increase in term 
lending balances in the UK and Continental Europe 
as a result of targeted campaigns during 2010 and 
2011. Net interest income also benefited from strong 
mortgage balance growth in the UK along with 
strong deposit growth across the region, mainly 
driven by marketing campaigns, although offset in 
part by strong competition for deposits resulting in 
lower deposit spreads, notably in RBWM in the UK.  
Net fee income declined by 4% as management 
services income generated from the securities 
investment conduits within our legacy credit 
portfolio was lower, along with higher intercompany 
fees payable on intra-group referrals. In addition, 
overdraft fees declined due to reduced customer 
appetite for debt in the current market conditions. 
This was partly offset by higher levels of client 
activity in GPB due to an increase in transaction 
volumes related to higher market volatility. 
Net trading income decreased by 33%, due to 
significantly lower trading revenues in Credit and 
Rates as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt markets 
escalated in the second half of 2011. Increased risk 
aversion and limited client activity led to a 
significant widening of spreads on certain eurozone 
sovereign and corporate bonds, resulting in losses 
in our Credit and Rates businesses. In addition, 
legacy credit revenues fell due to the non-recurrence 
of the price appreciation on legacy assets in 2010. 
Lower favourable foreign exchange movements 
were also reported on trading assets held as 
economic hedges of foreign currency debt 
designated at fair value. These offset lower adverse 
foreign exchange movements on the foreign 
currency debt which are reported in ‘Net expense 
from financial instruments designated at fair value’. 
Trading income included a favourable fair value 
movement of US$391m from structured liabilities, 
mainly in Rates, as credit spreads widened compared 
with adverse fair value movements of US$29m in 
2010. In our Equities business, revenues rose as 
investment in platforms improved our competitive 
positioning and helped capture increased client 
flows. This was coupled with lower losses on 
portfolio hedges in Global Banking compared with 
the previous year. 
Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was US$479m, reflecting 
net investment losses during 2011 on assets held by 
our insurance business to meet liabilities under 
insurance and investment contracts as equity markets 
fell, notably in the second half of 2011, compared 
with gains reported in 2010. To the extent that these 
losses were attributable to policyholders holding 
unit-linked insurance policies and insurance or 
investment contracts with DPF, there was a 
corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. These losses were partly offset by   
63 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
lower adverse foreign exchange movements on 
foreign currency debt designated at fair value, issued 
as part of our overall funding strategy, with an offset 
reported in ‘Net trading income’.  
Gains less losses from financial investments were 
broadly in line with 2010. Net gains from the 
disposal of available-for-sale debt securities 
increased as part of normal portfolio management 
activities. These were offset by lower gains from the 
disposal of available-for-sale equity securities as a 
deterioration in market confidence resulted in fewer 
disposal opportunities and lower gains from the 
disposal of private equity investments. In addition, 
there were write-downs of our equity investments in 
real estate companies. 
Net earned insurance premiums decreased by 
3%, resulting from the non-renewal and transfer to 
third parties of certain contracts in our Irish business 
and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal of 
our motor insurance business in the UK. This was 
partly offset by an increase in premiums as we 
launched targeted sales campaigns, notably for 
investment contracts with DPF in France, and 
expanded distribution channels for unit-linked 
products in the UK. 
Other operating income decreased by 15%, 
driven by the non-recurrence of a gain on the sale 
and leaseback of our Paris headquarters in 2010. In 
addition, there was a reduction in the PVIF asset 
from net experience and assumption updates and a 
higher unwind of cash flows related to the growing 
in-force book, compared with 2010. This reduction 
was partly offset by a rise in the PVIF asset as a 
result of higher life insurance sales and a positive 
impact from a refinement to the PVIF calculation 
during 2011. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement 
in liabilities to policyholders decreased by 28% as a 
result of investment losses experienced in 2011 on 
unit-linked insurance policies and insurance and 
investment contracts with DPF as equity markets 
declined, which contrasted with investment gains in 
2010. Also, the non-renewal and transfer to third 
parties of certain contracts in the Irish business 
and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal 
of our legacy motor business in the UK resulted in 
a decrease in net insurance claims incurred and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders. Partly 
offsetting these declines were increases in liabilities 
to policyholders established for new business 
written. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions decreased by 20% to US$2.5bn. This 
mainly reflected a range of successful initiatives 
taken to mitigate credit risk within RBWM including 
a focus on monitoring and identifying customers 
facing financial hardship. This resulted in lower 
delinquency rates across both the secured and 
unsecured lending portfolios. In CMB, loan 
impairment charges declined as the non-recurrence 
of specific provisions in the UK was partly offset by 
higher specific provisions related to a small number 
of customers in Greece. In GB&M, we recorded a 
charge of US$145m to write down to market value 
available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt now judged 
to be impaired. In addition, impairments of US$46m 
were included in our GPB and insurance businesses 
in relation to Greek available-for-sale debt securities. 
These were partly offset by lower credit risk 
provisions on ABSs as the losses arising in the 
underlying collateral pools generated lower charges 
on ABSs. 
Operating expenses increased by 9%. This 
included provisions of US$898m relating to UK 
customer redress programmes, including a charge in 
respect of possible mis-selling of PPI in previous 
years, a cost of US$570m in respect of the UK bank 
levy and restructuring provisions of US$404m. 
These were partly offset by a credit of US$587m 
resulting from a change in the inflation measure used 
to calculate the defined benefit obligation for 
deferred pensions in the UK. Costs in 2010 included 
one-off payroll and bonus taxes of US$354m 
(US$324m as reported) in the UK and France. 
Excluding these items, operating expenses rose as 
we incurred higher regulatory and compliance costs, 
along with an increase in expenses as a result of the 
strengthening of the Swiss franc, which accounts for 
a significant proportion of the GPB cost base. In 
GB&M, performance-related awards were 
substantially lower than in 2010, reflecting the 
decline in revenues, although this was mostly offset 
by higher amortisation charges for previous years' 
performance shares and an acceleration in the 
expense recognition of current-year deferred bonus 
awards. Notwithstanding these factors, we have 
achieved about US$300m of sustainable savings 
during 2011. This has enabled the funding of 
investment in strategic initiatives, including the 
development of Prime Services and equity market 
capabilities and the expansion of the Rates and 
Foreign Exchange e-commerce platforms.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
 
 
64 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Europe 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 5,653  3,107 2,102 936 (574) (223) 11,001 
Net fee income ............................ 2,633  1,640 989 942 32  –   6,236 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... 40   5 602 191 (201) –   637 
Net interest income on trading 
activities .................................. 11   16 1,205 16 53  223  1,524 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 .. 51  21 1,807 207 (148) 223  2,161 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – 3,180  – 3,180 
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (672)  (21) (65) – 46  –   (712)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (672) (21) (65) – 3,226  –   2,468 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 51  (1) 453 1 11  –   515 
Dividend income ......................... 1  1 42 4 1  –   49 
Net earned insurance premiums . 3,768  381 –   –   (13) –   4,136 
Other operating income .............. 95  58 187 5 760  74  1,179 
Total operating income ............ 11,580  5,186 5,515 2,095 3,295  74  27,745 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................ (3,212) (287) –   –   –   –   (3,499)
Net operating income
52
 ............. 8,368  4,899 5,515 2,095 3,295  74  24,246 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (596) (960) (876) (82) 2  –   (2,512)
Net operating income ............... 7,772  3,939 4,639 2,013 3,297  74  21,734 
Total operating expenses ............ (6,450) (2,252) (4,569) (1,456) (2,268) (74) (17,069)
Operating profit ........................ 1,322  1,687 70 557 1,029  –   4,665 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates 
and joint ventures ................... –   –   7 –   (1) –   6 
Profit before tax ........................ 1,322  1,687 77 557 1,028  –   4,671 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  6.0    7.7  0.4  2.5  4.7      21.3 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  77.1    46.0  82.8  69.5  68.8      70.4 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 150,205  98,154 156,903 28,378 696   434,336 
Total assets 
 
................................. 210,140 124,049 1,021,486 77,410 63,141 (214,281) 1,281,945 
Customer accounts ...................... 176,134  104,530 154,208 58,265 267   493,404 
   
65 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 5,537 2,774 2,935 871 (654) (213) 11,250 
Net fee income ............................ 2,559 1,570 1,320 883 39 – 6,371 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... (6)  3 1,541 185 (262) – 1,461 
Net interest income/(expense) 
on trading activities ................ (1)  19 1,127 21 23 213  1,402 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 .. (7) 22 2,668 206 (239) 213  2,863 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – (365) – (365)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 496   113 (23) – 61  – 647 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 496  113 (23) – (304) – 282 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. (36) – 525 (7) 4 – 486 
Dividend income ......................... – 1 16 2 1 – 20 
Net earned insurance premiums . 3,800  278 – – (11) – 4,067 
Other operating income .............. 187 163 817 7 754  189  2,117 
Total operating income/  
(expense) ................................ 12,536 4,921 8,258 1,962 (410) 189  27,456 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................ (4,364) (342) – – – – (4,706)
Net operating income/ 
(expense)
52
 .............................. 8,172 4,579 8,258 1,962 (410) 189  22,750 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (1,217) (997) (783) (26) 3 – (3,020)
Net operating income/ 
(expense) ................................ 6,955 3,582 7,475 1,936 (407) 189  19,730 
Total operating expenses ............ (5,647) (2,378) (4,784) (1,296) (1,151) (189) (15,445)
Operating profit/(loss) ................ 1,308 1,204 2,691 640 (1,558) – 4,285 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 4 1 12 – – – 17 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................ 1,312 1,205 2,703 640 (1,558) – 4,302 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  6.9   6.3  14.2  3.4  (8.2)     22.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  69.1   51.9  57.9  66.1  (280.7)     67.9 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 145,069 91,744 170,369 27,629 988  435,799 
Total assets 
 
................................. 205,032 111,356 962,861 76,631 65,824 (172,177) 1,249,527 
Customer accounts ...................... 169,016 96,597 169,836 56,114 –  491,563 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong 
 
 
66 
Hong Kong 
HSBC’s principal banking subsidiaries in Hong 
Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank 
Limited. The former is the largest bank 
incorporated in Hong Kong and is our flagship 
bank in the Asia-Pacific region. It is one of Hong 
Kong’s three note-issuing banks, accounting for 
more than 65% by value of banknotes in 
circulation in 2011.  
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 4,691 4,246 4,195 
Net fee income .................. 3,097 2,962 2,669 
Net trading income ........... 1,189 1,312 1,225 
Other income .................... 1,705 1,682 1,378 
Net operating income
52
.... 10,682 10,202 9,467 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (156) (114) (500)
Net operating income ..... 10,526 10,088 8,967 
Total operating expenses .. (4,758) (4,431) (3,946)
Operating profit .............. 5,768 5,657 5,021 
Income from associates
54
 .. 55 35 8 
Profit before tax .............. 5,823 5,692 5,029 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  44.5%   43.4%  41.7% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  5.3%   5.0%  4.2% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 28,984 29,171 27,614 
 
Increase in profitability driven by increased 
customer lending and growth in trade flows 
combined with strong cost discipline. 
 
 
25% 
growth in trade revenues 
 
Best offshore renminbi bond house  
(IFR Asia Awards 2011) 
 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on Hong Kong is on an underlying basis unless 
stated otherwise. 
 
Economic background  
Hong Kong registered very strong economic growth 
entering 2011. This eased during the course of the 
year due to supply chain disruptions triggered by the 
earthquake in Japan and some slowing in demand 
from mainland China following a tightening of 
policy to counter inflation. Nonetheless, Hong Kong 
GDP grew by 5% in 2011. Some slowing in the pace 
of growth was welcomed as it helped reduce 
inflationary pressures that had been mounting earlier 
in 2011in both consumer and property markets. 
Unemployment rates in Hong Kong improved 
steadily during 2011, falling from 3.9% at the end of 
2010 to 3.2% by the end of the year. Inter-bank 
interest rates stayed low during 2011, rising slightly 
to 0.325% by 31 December. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in Hong Kong reported pre-tax 
profits of US$5.8bn compared with US$5.7bn in 
2010, an increase of 2%. On an underlying basis, 
excluding gains arising from the reclassification of 
Bao Viet as an associate and following the sale of 
HSBC Private Equity (Asia) Ltd, both in 2010, profit 
before tax rose by 5%. 
The increase in profitability was driven by 
higher revenues from increased customer lending 
which reflected growth in trade flows, coupled with 
strong demand for wealth management products, 
partly offset by a rise in staff and support costs 
reflecting wage inflation and higher business 
volumes in 2011.  
Following significant loan growth in 2010 and 
the first half of 2011, we experienced slower growth 
in our businesses during the second half of 2011. 
In RBWM, we retained market leadership across 
our key products. In residential mortgages we 
retained the number one market position as we 
continued to provide competitive products for our 
customers. Our leading market share in life 
insurance reflected our strong customer focus and 
diverse product offerings. We also maintained 
market leadership in the provision of mandatory 
provident funds and launched a new product which 
offers our customers a wider choice and lower fees. 
We retained our number one position in cards 
reflecting the success of our various marketing 
campaigns and customer focus, and saw continued 
strong sales of wealth management products, though 
revenues were affected in the latter part of 2011 as 
stock market turnover reduced and investor 
sentiment weakened.   
67 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by global business 
 2011 
US$m 
2010 
US$m 
 2009
US$m 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management .................................................................. 3,022 3,001  2,789 
Commercial Banking .................................................................................................. 1,608 1,352  956 
Global Banking and Markets ...................................................................................... 1,316 1,347  1,446 
Global Private Banking .............................................................................................. 188 227  197 
Other ........................................................................................................................... (311) (235) (359)
 5,823 5,692  5,029 
 
In CMB, we grew trade revenues as we 
continued to capture cross-border opportunities, 
particularly with mainland China, which accounted 
for more than half of our new-to-bank CMB 
customers. The number of cross-border referrals 
between Hong Kong and mainland China increased 
by 9%. We also opened four new business banking 
centres in Hong Kong and set up the China 
Corporate team in Hong Kong to service mainland 
Chinese companies looking to expand 
internationally. 
We continued to strengthen the collaboration 
between CMB and GB&M, resulting in incremental 
revenue growth through the provision of foreign 
exchange and interest rate management products to 
our corporate clients. 
In GB&M, we maintained our number one 
market position in Hong Kong dollar bond 
issuance and acted as a joint lead manager on the 
government’s first inflation-linked bond issue, the 
largest ever retail bond issue in Hong Kong. We also 
continued to enhance our equity capital markets 
capabilities, expanded our equity research team, 
and were bookrunner in six of the ten largest initial 
public offerings (‘IPOs’) in Hong Kong this year. 
During 2011 we won several awards including Best 
Investment Bank and Best Equity House from 
FinanceAsia and Best Flow House and Best Debt 
Capital Markets House in Asia from Euromoney. 
We continued to reinforce our position as a 
leading international renminbi bank and became the 
market leader in offshore renminbi bond issuance 
and won awards from both Finance Asia  and IFR 
Asia for Best Offshore Renminbi Bond House. We 
arranged the first ever renminbi subordinated bank 
bond and participated in the largest ever offshore 
renminbi bond deal by a sovereign issuer, 
demonstrating the depth and diversity of our 
involvement in this market. 
Net interest income was 11% higher than in 
2010, driven by the income from strong lending 
growth during 2010 and the first half of 2011 which 
reflected increased trade flows and demand for 
credit. We saw more moderate loan growth in 
GB&M and RBWM in the second half of 2011, 
which was more than offset by a reduction in certain 
trade finance loans in CMB. The Hong Kong 
property market slowed in the second half of 2011 
and we continued to lend conservatively, with 
average loan to value ratios of 49% on new 
residential mortgage draw-downs and an estimated 
37% on the portfolio as a whole. 
Spreads narrowed in RBWM due to a shift in 
the product mix to lower-yielding HIBOR-linked 
mortgages, and in CMB as growth was concentrated 
in lower-margin trade financing and HIBOR-linked 
loans. HIBOR-linked spreads began to improve 
marginally in the second half of the year due to 
product repricing. 
Average customer deposit balances rose despite 
a highly competitive environment, supported by the 
opening of new business centres, growth in the 
offshore renminbi market, our comprehensive suite 
of renminbi solutions across Trade and Supply 
Chain, and Payments and Cash Management.  
Net fee income increased by 5% as a result 
of higher sales of wealth management products, 
particularly unit trusts reflecting increased product 
offerings, competitive pricing and ongoing 
marketing campaigns. This was achieved in the low 
interest rate environment in which clients sought 
products which could increase their returns. Card 
transactions grew, reflecting higher retail spending 
in 2011 supported by marketing campaigns. 
Underwriting fees rose due to our participation in 
many of the largest equity capital market 
transactions in 2011 supported by the continued 
enhancement of our equity market capabilities. 
Remittances and trade-related fees also increased 
reflecting increased product offerings and higher 
cross-border trade volumes. This was partly offset by 
lower broking income, notably towards the end of 
the year due to increased competition. 
Net trading income reduced by 9%. We 
recorded adverse fair value movements on 
derivatives relating to certain provident funds as 
long-term investment returns fell. We also incurred 
losses on equity options backing an endowment  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong 
 
 
68 
product in RBWM due to unfavourable movements 
in the underlying equity indices which resulted in a 
corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’.  
These losses were partly offset by higher trading 
income in GB&M due to a rise in net interest income 
from trading activities from Asian government debt 
securities and corporate bonds. Trading income fell 
through lower revenues in credit trading as credit 
spreads widened in some markets. This was partly 
offset by higher revenues in foreign exchange 
following greater market volatility in the region and 
the collaboration between CMB and GB&M. In 
addition, revenues in Equities increased in line with 
improved volumes in the business.  
Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was US$537m compared 
with gains in 2010 due to investment losses on assets 
held by the insurance business as a result of negative 
movements in the equity market during the second 
half of 2011. To the extent that these investment 
losses were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked 
insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, 
there was a corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance 
claims incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. 
Net earned insurance premiums increased by 
18% as a result of successful sales initiatives for 
deferred annuities, unit-linked products and a 
universal life insurance product targeted at high net 
worth individuals. This reflected our strategic focus 
on wealth management, of which insurance is a 
key part. The growth in premiums resulted in a 
corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. 
Other operating income increased by 10%, 
largely due to an increase in PVIF and higher 
revaluation gains on investment properties. PVIF 
rose as a result of higher life insurance sales, a 
one-off gain of US$135m recognised upon the 
refinement of the calculation of the PVIF and a 
net increase from updates for experience and 
assumptions during 2011. Partially offsetting this 
was a higher unwind of cash flows related to the 
growing in-force book.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions increased by US$42m from a low base 
due to a specific impairment charge against one 
customer, higher collective impairment charges in 
CMB resulting from lending growth, and an 
impairment recorded in respect of available-for-sale 
Greek sovereign debt securities in GPB. These were 
partly offset by releases in GB&M relating to 
specific impairment charges raised in 2010. 
Operating expenses rose by 7% due to higher 
staff costs across the business reflecting wage 
inflation in a competitive labour market and a rise 
in average staff numbers to support increased 
business activity. Performance costs increased in 
GB&M due to higher amortisation charges for 
previous years’ performance shares and accelerated 
expense recognition of current year deferred bonus 
awards. During 2011 we incurred US$68m of 
restructuring costs as we took steps to improve 
efficiency, including the restructuring of our regional 
head office.    
 
69 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 2,571  1,317 1,051 173 (464) 43  4,691 
Net fee income ............................. 1,741  706 475 160 15  –   3,097 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income ..................................... 120   169 652 135 (116) –   960 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... 9   1 246 –  16  (43) 229 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 129  170 898 135 (100) (43) 1,189 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – – – –
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (475)  (72) (5) –  15  –   (537)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (475) (72) (5) – 15  –   (537)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 3  10 21 –   (10) –   24 
Dividend income .......................... –   1 14 –   24  –   39 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 4,317  758 13 –   –   –   5,088 
Other operating income ............... 505  175 79 8 1,185  (268) 1,684 
Total operating income ............. 8,791  3,065 2,546 476 665  (268) 15,275 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (3,887) (697) (9) –   –   –   (4,593)
Net operating income
52
 .............. 4,904  2,368 2,537 476 665  (268) 10,682 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ......................... (77) (66) 23 (36) –   –   (156)
Net operating income ................ 4,827  2,302 2,560 440 665  (268) 10,526 
Total operating expenses ............. (1,811) (703) (1,248) (252) (1,012) 268  (4,758)
Operating profit/(loss) ............... 3,016  1,599 1,312 188 (347) –   5,768 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 6  9 4 –   36  –   55 
Profit/(loss) before tax ............... 3,022  1,608 1,316 188 (311) –   5,823 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  13.8    7.3  6.0  0.9  (1.4)     26.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  36.9    29.7  49.2  52.9  152.2      44.5 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 56,296  54,986 39,667 5,447 1,269   157,665 
Total assets .................................. 85,866  63,516 238,892 20,680 84,782  (20,712) 473,024 
Customer accounts ....................... 181,316  79,225 35,283 19,622 (101)  315,345 
 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong / Rest of Asia-Pacific 
 
 
70 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong (continued) 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 2,604  1,106 915 173 (463) (89) 4,246 
Net fee income ............................. 1,656  634 495 163 14  – 2,962 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income ..................................... 198   121 680 120 (12) – 1,107 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... 4   – 100 – 12  89  205 
Net trading income
56
 .................... 202  121 780 120 – 89  1,312 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – (2) – (2)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 328   (10) 61 – 1  – 380 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 328 (10) 61 – (1) – 378 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... – – 56 1 41  – 98 
Dividend income .......................... – 1 12 – 17  – 30 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 3,655  665 12 – – – 4,332 
Other operating income ............... 513  68 156 12 1,140  (283) 1,606 
Total operating income ................ 8,958  2,585 2,487 469 748  (283) 14,964 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (4,193) (559) (10) – – – (4,762)
Net operating income
52
 ................ 4,765  2,026 2,477 469 748  (283) 10,202 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (76) (28) (10) – – – (114)
Net operating income .................. 4,689  1,998 2,467 469 748  (283) 10,088 
Total operating expenses ............. (1,693) (653) (1,124) (242) (1,002) 283  (4,431)
Operating profit/(loss) ................. 2,996  1,345 1,343 227 (254) – 5,657 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 5  7 4 – 19  – 35 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................. 3,001  1,352 1,347 227 (235) – 5,692 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  15.7    7.1  7.1  1.2  (1.2)     29.9 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  35.5    32.2  45.4  51.6  134.0      43.4 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 50,983  48,670 34,491 4,760 1,787   140,691 
Total assets
68
 ................................ 76,871  55,030 223,286 20,598 62,486  (8,706) 429,565 
Customer accounts ....................... 176,960  71,209 29,388 19,241 686   297,484 
For footnotes, see page 95.   
 
71 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Rest of Asia-Pacific 
We offer a full range of banking and financial 
services in mainland China, mainly through our 
local subsidiary, HSBC Bank (China) Company 
Limited. We also participate indirectly in 
mainland China through our associates.  
Outside mainland China, we conduct 
business in 22 countries and territories in the 
Rest of Asia-Pacific region, primarily through 
branches and subsidiaries of The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with 
particularly strong coverage in Australia, India, 
Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 5,102 3,828 3,539 
Net fee income .................. 2,111 1,932 1,557 
Net trading income ........... 1,658 1,618 1,606 
Other income .................... 1,842 1,854 1,301 
Net operating income
52 
... 10,713 9,232 8,003 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (267) (439) (896)
Net operating income ..... 10,446 8,793 7,107 
Total operating expenses .. (5,806) (5,143) (4,450)
Operating profit .............. 4,640 3,650 2,657 
Income from associates
54
 .. 2,831 2,252 1,543 
Profit before tax .............. 7,471 5,902 4,200 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  54.2%   55.7%  55.6% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  3.1%   3.1%  2.4% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 91,051 91,607 87,141 
24% 
growth in commercial lending 
Profits increased  
across all key markets  
in the region 
Best Foreign Commercial Bank  
in China 2011 
Finance Asia Country Awards 2011 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on Rest of Asia-Pacific is on an underlying basis 
unless stated otherwise. 
Economic background 
In mainland China, reducing the pace of consumer 
price inflation was a key priority for policymakers in 
the first half of 2011. Monetary conditions were 
tightened by increasing the reserve requirement ratio 
to 21.5% for large banks and a number of measures 
were implemented, focused specifically on reducing 
demand in the property market. As a result, credit 
growth slowed in the second half of the year which, 
coupled with the downturn in global trade, helped to 
slow the pace of growth and reduce inflationary 
pressures. The annual rate of inflation peaked at 
6.5% in July and eased to around 4% by the year 
end. Meanwhile, the annual pace of GDP growth 
slowed from 9.7% in the first quarter to 8.9% in the 
fourth quarter, bringing the full year GDP growth 
down to 9.2% in 2011 from 10.4% in 2010. In the 
final months of the year, the outlook for growth in 
the eurozone became more of a concern and 
policymakers reverted to easing monetary and fiscal 
conditions. Towards the end of 2011, the reserve 
requirement ratio was cut and a number of fiscal 
stimulus measures were enacted.  
Japan’s economy began 2011 strongly, but 
the earthquake and tsunami in March led to a 
sharp contraction in output. Japan continued to suffer 
from deflationary pressures, leading the Bank of 
Japan to expand its quantitative easing programme. 
It also intervened in foreign exchange markets to 
stem the upward pressure on the yen. 
The Rest of Asia-Pacific region experienced a 
relatively strong first half, with exports and domestic 
demand growing robustly, following which growth 
slowed in the latter months of 2011. The highly 
trade-dependent economies of South Korea, 
Taiwan and Singapore experienced the most 
significant decline in activity. Regional trade was 
disrupted by the Japanese earthquake in March and 
floods in the fourth quarter in Thailand, which 
caused a sharp contraction in the production of 
critical electronic and car components. As a result, 
trade expanded at a slower pace in 2011 than in 
2010. In a number of economies, notably India and 
South Korea, domestic demand also slowed 
markedly in the second half of 2011 after rising 
inflationary pressures prompted central banks to 
tighten monetary policy. In Malaysia, domestic 
demand proved more resilient and the level of GDP 
in Malaysia in the fourth quarter was 5.2% higher 
than the level seen a year earlier. Across Asia, 
inflation peaked in the middle of the year providing 
policymakers in India, Thailand and Indonesia 
room to start easing monetary policy.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific 
 
 
72 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
Management
17
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m  
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
2011       
Australia ................................................ 88 106 108 – 5 307 
India ...................................................... (14) 122 539 5 161 813 
Indonesia ............................................... 6 89 157 – 7 259 
Mainland China .................................... 1,112 1,340 1,116 (4) 117 3,681 
Associates ......................................... 1,179 1,150 529 – 117 2,975
Other mainland China ...................... (67) 190 587 (4) – 706
Malaysia ................................................ 173 118 228 1 9 529 
Singapore .............................................. 183 133 189 97 (7) 595 
Taiwan .................................................. 45 23 130 – 12 210 
Vietnam.................................................. – 51 79 – 24 154 
Other ..................................................... 48 264 543 (8) 76 923 
 1,641 2,246 3,089 91 404 7,471 
       
2010       
Australia ................................................ 59 96 95 – 8 258 
India ...................................................... (83) 71 508 4 179 679 
Indonesia ............................................... 12 94 116 – (3) 219 
Mainland China .................................... 839 833 683 (7) 217 2,565 
Associates ......................................... 973 746 443 – 188 2,350
Other mainland China ...................... (134) 87 240 (7) 29 215
Malaysia ................................................ 120 88 194 – (1) 401 
Singapore .............................................. 169 87 100 84 84 524 
Taiwan .................................................. 31 36 87 – (7) 147 
Vietnam.................................................. (7) 50 61 – 7 111 
Other ..................................................... 22 201 644 – 131 998 
 1,162 1,556 2,488 81 615 5,902 
       
2009       
Australia ................................................ 30 32 140 – (4) 198 
India ...................................................... (220) (41) 394 1 240  374 
Indonesia ............................................... (24) 60 129 – (11) 154 
Mainland China .................................... 494 616 479 (7) 50  1,632 
Associates ......................................... 678 558 285 – – 1,521 
Other mainland China ...................... (184) 58 194 (7) 50  111 
Malaysia ................................................ 88 53 140 – 5  286 
Singapore .............................................. 154 77 222 98 (9) 542 
Taiwan .................................................. 6 65 87 – 2  160 
Vietnam.................................................. (8) 40 63 – 6  101 
Other ..................................................... (9) 162 617 (2) (15) 753 
 511 1,064 2,271 90 264  4,200 
For footnote, see page 95. 
In Australia GDP growth in early 2011 was 
initially affected by weather-related disruptions, 
particularly to coal exports. However, activity 
strengthened and GDP rose by 2.5% in the year to 
September, predominantly from ongoing investment 
in the mining sector. Labour market conditions eased 
during the year, with the unemployment rate rising 
modestly to 5.2% by the year end. The Reserve Bank 
of Australia reduced its policy rate in November and 
December from 4.75% to 4.25%. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region 
reported pre-tax profits of US$7.5bn compared with 
US$5.9bn in 2010, an increase of 27%. Reported 
profits included gains arising from the dilution of 
HSBC’s shareholding in Ping An following its issue 
of share capital to third parties in 2010 and 2011 of 
US$188m and US$181m, respectively. On 
an underlying basis, excluding these gains, pre-tax 
profit rose by 23%.   
 
73 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The growth in profitability in the region 
reflected strong lending and deposit growth during 
2010 and 2011, mainly in Singapore and mainland 
China, coupled with widening deposit spreads due to 
higher interest rates in certain countries, notably 
India and mainland China. Loan impairment charges 
improved as a result of the non-recurrence of a 
number of individual impairments and the reduction 
of certain unsecured lending portfolios. Costs 
increased, though to a lesser extent than revenues, to 
support business expansion, notably in mainland 
China, and maintain our competitive position in our 
six strategic markets. The contribution from our 
associates in mainland China also grew, benefiting 
from ongoing loan growth and increased income 
from fee-based revenue streams. 
We continued to invest in building our franchise 
in mainland China where the operating profit of our 
operations more than doubled and we remained 
the leading foreign bank by network size. In CMB, 
we increased the coverage of our renminbi trade 
settlement services to 24 cities within the country, 
representing the widest geographic coverage among 
all foreign banks, and offered renminbi capabilities 
in over 50 countries worldwide. Cross-border 
referrals between mainland China and the rest of the 
world grew by 9% compared with 2010 as we 
capitalised on our international network to capture 
outbound and inbound trade flows. In GB&M, we 
focused on leveraging our global connectivity and 
product capabilities to be the leading international 
bank of choice for multinational corporations doing 
business with mainland China and large corporates 
looking to expand internationally.  
Profit before tax increased in other key countries 
across the region as we maintained our strategic 
focus on these markets, particularly in 
intermediating cross-border trade flows. Trade 
revenues grew in most of our sites and we were 
awarded the ‘Best Trade Finance Bank in Asia 
Pacific’ by FinanceAsia for the fourteenth 
consecutive year. Trade-related lending grew 
strongly in Singapore as we continued to enhance 
our trade finance capabilities. In Malaysia we 
expanded our branch network through the launch of 
new Amanah branches. We also experienced strong 
commercial lending growth in both Malaysia and 
Indonesia as a result of various marketing 
campaigns. In India, we were ranked the number one 
foreign bank by Bloomberg for domestic bonds in 
2011 and issued the first and only offshore renminbi 
bond in the country.  
As part of our strategic review process, in 
December 2011 we announced the sale of our private 
banking operations in Japan and, in January 2012, 
we announced the sale of our RBWM operations in 
Thailand. We expect to complete these transactions 
during 2012. 
Net interest income increased by 28%. Average 
lending balances grew most notably in CMB and 
GB&M, particularly in mainland China, as we 
captured inbound and outbound trade flows and as 
demand for credit in the region increased. In RBWM 
mortgage lending balances rose, notably in 
Singapore and Australia, driven by competitive 
product offerings and strong property markets. 
This was partly offset by continued pressure on 
asset spreads, most notably in RBWM (particularly 
in Singapore and Australia), due to competitive 
pressures and growth in residential mortgage lending 
at lower spreads. 
Customer deposit balances rose across most 
of the region, notably in Payments and Cash 
Management reflecting our investment in 
infrastructure as part of a targeted strategy to 
support growth in customer lending. Deposit spreads 
increased as interest rates rose in a number of 
countries, particularly in mainland China and India. 
Net interest income from Balance Sheet 
Management was higher than in 2010, reflecting 
increased interest rates and the widening of onshore 
US dollar lending spreads in mainland China, and a 
higher return from short-term lending and growth in 
the balance sheet in Singapore as we attracted 
increased customer deposits. 
Net fee income increased by 4%, primarily from 
trade-related fees as we targeted asset growth and 
trade activity, largely in mainland China, Bangladesh 
and Singapore, supported by marketing activities, 
customer acquisition and a rise in transactions from 
existing customers. Card fees rose, notably in 
Australia from the increased issuance of our co-
branded credit cards, higher retail spending, and 
more customers converting to a higher card status. 
Net trading income of US$1.7bn was broadly 
unchanged compared with 2010. Net interest income 
on trading activities was lower as we progressively 
reduced our positions in government debt securities 
following increased market volatility in bond 
markets, and from growth in structured deposits 
where the related income is recorded under ‘Net 
interest income’. This was offset by higher Foreign 
Exchange trading income due to increased customer 
transaction volumes resulting from the collaboration 
between GB&M and CMB and as more clients 
sought protection from volatility in the markets. 
Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was US$18m compared with  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific 
 
74 
income of US$29m in 2010. This was due to 
investment losses on assets held by the insurance 
business, primarily in Singapore, as a result of 
negative equity market movements during the 
second half of 2011. To the extent that these 
investment losses were attributed to policyholders of 
unit-linked insurance policies and insurance 
contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding 
decrease in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders’. 
Losses from financial investments were US$23m 
compared with gains of US$151m in 2010, due to an 
impairment loss on an equity investment in 2011 in 
GB&M, lower gains on the disposal of government 
debt securities across the region and the non-
recurrence of a gain on disposal of an equity 
investment in a Singaporean property company in 
2010. 
Net earned insurance premiums increased by 
58% to US$759m as a result of successful sales 
initiatives, most notably resulting in improved sales 
of a universal life insurance product targeted at high 
net worth individuals in Singapore. The growth in 
premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in 
‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders’. 
Other operating income increased by US$92m, 
largely due to a rise in the PVIF asset in Singapore 
as a result of higher life insurance sales and a net 
increase from experience and assumption updates.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions decreased by 42% to US$267m as a 
result of the non-recurrence of a number of 
individual loan impairment charges in GB&M on a 
small number of accounts, coupled with the ongoing 
reduction of unsecured lending portfolios in India. 
We remain cautious on the outlook for credit quality 
and sustained our focus on maintaining high levels 
of underwriting and asset quality. 
Operating expenses increased by 8% due to 
wage inflation which reflected the competitive 
labour market, along with an increase in average 
staff numbers, notably in mainland China. Increased 
business volumes across the region led to higher 
support costs. Premises and equipment costs also 
rose in certain countries, reflecting increased rental 
expenses resulting from lease renewals and new 
branch openings. 
Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 
increased by 22%. The contribution from BoCom 
rose, driven by strong loan growth, wider deposit 
spreads following interest rate increases in mainland 
China and higher fee income, notably from 
investment banking, settlements and cards. Income 
from Industrial Bank also increased as a result of 
strong growth in customer lending, a rise in fee-
based revenue and a fall in loan impairment charges. 
Higher profits from Ping An resulted from strong 
growth in sales in the insurance business and 
increased income from the banking business 
following the acquisition of Shenzhen Development 
Bank in July 2011. 
   
 
75 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 1,838  1,254 1,964 116 123  (193) 5,102 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 904  513 621 82 (9) –   2,111 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 94   156 1,153 66 (90) –   1,379 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................. (2)  1 76 –  11  193  279 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 92  157 1,229 66 (79) 193  1,658 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – 4  – 4 
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (38)  2 1 – 15  –   (20)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ (38) 2 1 –   19  –   (16)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... –   2 (25) 1 (1) –   (23)
Dividend income .......................... –   –   2 –   –   –   2 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 493  266 –   –   –   –   759 
Other operating income ............... 145  72 75 5 1,592  (178) 1,711 
Total operating income ............. 3,434  2,266 3,867 270 1,645  (178) 11,304 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (351) (240) –   –   –   –   (591)
Net operating income
52 
.............. 3,083  2,026 3,867 270 1,645  (178) 10,713 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ......................... (222) 10 (57) 2 –   –   (267)
Net operating income ................ 2,861  2,036 3,810 272 1,645  (178) 10,446 
Total operating expenses ............. (2,409) (945) (1,268) (181) (1,181) 178  (5,806)
Operating profit ......................... 452  1,091 2,542 91 464  –   4,640 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 1,189  1,155 547 –   (60) –   2,831 
Profit before tax ......................... 1,641  2,246 3,089 91 404  –   7,471 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  7.5    10.3  14.1  0.4  1.9      34.2 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  78.1    46.6  32.8  67.0  71.8      54.2 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 40,970  38,404 41,114 3,190 190   123,868 
Total assets .................................. 54,484  50,688 195,549 12,879 16,616  (12,400) 317,816 
Customer accounts ....................... 60,831  40,423 60,855 11,872 31   174,012 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific / Middle East and North Africa 
 
 
76 
 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 1,581  938 1,435 91 55  (272) 3,828 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 834  442 611 55 (10) – 1,932 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 80   129 967 69 (38) – 1,207 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... –  – 138 – 1  272  411 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 80  129 1,105 69 (37) 272  1,618 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – (2) – (2)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 41   2 (1) – (16) – 26 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 41 2 (1) – (18) – 24 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... – 3 51 – 92  – 146 
Dividend income .......................... – – 1 – – – 1 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 386  62 – – – – 448 
Other operating income ............... 109  86 55 1 1,499  (152) 1,598 
Total operating income ................ 3,031 1,662 3,257 216 1,581  (152) 9,595 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (324) (39) – – – – (363)
Net operating income
52
 ................ 2,707  1,623 3,257 216 1,581  (152) 9,232 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (298) (19) (122) – – – (439)
Net operating income .................. 2,409  1,604 3,135 216 1,581  (152) 8,793 
Total operating expenses ............. (2,233) (799) (1,094) (135) (1,034) 152  (5,143)
Operating profit ........................... 176  805 2,041 81 547  – 3,650 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 986  751 447 – 68  – 2,252 
Profit before tax ........................... 1,162  1,556 2,488 81 615  – 5,902 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  6.1    8.2  13.1  0.4  3.2      31.0 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  82.5   49.2  33.6  62.5  65.4      55.7 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 37,831  31,423 35,810 3,489 178   108,731 
Total assets .................................. 49,758  41,588 166,710 12,126 19,450  (11,570) 278,062 
Customer accounts ....................... 54,741  36,943 53,752 12,620 99   158,155 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
   
 
77 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Middle East and North Africa 
The network of branches of HSBC Bank Middle 
East Limited, together with HSBC’s subsidiaries 
and associates, gives us the widest reach in the 
region. Our associate in Saudi Arabia, The 
Saudi British Bank (40% owned), is the 
Kingdom’s sixth largest bank by total assets. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 1,432 1,367 1,485 
Net fee income .................. 627 677 625 
Net trading income ........... 482 370 394 
Other income .................... 66 (4) 90 
Net operating income
52 
... 2,607 2,410 2,594 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (293) (627) (1,334)
Net operating income ..... 2,314 1,783 1,260 
Total operating expenses .. (1,159) (1,078) (1,001)
Operating profit .............. 1,155 705 259 
Income from associates
54
 .. 337 187 196 
Profit before tax .............. 1,492 892 455 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  44.5%   44.7%  38.6% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  2.6%   1.6%  0.8% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 8,373 8,676 8,281 
Pre-tax profit significantly 
above 2010 despite regional  
political unrest and economic pressures 
Loan impairment charges  
decline to 2008 levels 
Best trade finance bank in the Middle East  
and North Africa  
Global Trade Review 2011 
for the fourth consecutive year 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on Middle East and North Africa is on an 
underlying basis unless stated otherwise. 
 
Economic background  
In the Middle East and North Africa region, GDP 
grew by more than 5% in 2011, though the headline 
figure masks a wide variance in overall performance 
and growth drivers. In the oil producing states of the 
Gulf, high oil prices prompted growth in oil output 
and encouraged substantial increases in current and 
capital spending, most notably in Saudi Arabia. 
The export-oriented service sectors of countries 
including the UAE also grew robustly, supported 
in part by firm Asian demand. 
The aggregate fiscal and current account 
surpluses of the Gulf Co-operation Council members 
stood at 15% and 25% of GDP, respectively, 
significantly higher than in 2010. Despite the 
pick-up in growth, CPI inflation remained generally 
muted with slow private sector wage growth and 
broadly unchanged real estate prices. 
Regional political uncertainties weighed more 
heavily on performance elsewhere, however, 
particularly in countries that were subject to regime 
change. In Egypt, the level of GDP fell by an 
estimated 6 percentage points year-on-year as unrest 
held back investment and service sector exports, 
particularly tourism, contracted. Increased pressure 
on public finances and external account balances 
also added to the challenges for the post-revolution 
economies. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa 
reported a profit before tax of US$1.5bn, an increase 
of US$600m, or 67%. In 2010, we completed the 
sale of our investment in the British Arab 
Commercial Bank on which a loss of US$42m was 
incurred. In 2011, we recorded a dilution gain of 
US$27m as a result of the reduction of our holding 
in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited following its merger 
with SABB Securities Limited. On an underlying 
basis, excluding these items, pre-tax profits 
increased by 57% as significant loan impairment 
charges in 2010 did not recur and trading income 
rose. In addition, profits from our associate, The 
Saudi British Bank, increased significantly driven by 
a decline in loan impairment charges as the credit 
environment in Saudi Arabia improved. 
Despite political unrest and economic pressures, 
profits increased in all countries with the exception 
of Qatar, which was adversely affected by new 
regulations on foreign banks which curtailed growth 
in certain products, and Jordan, where we incurred a  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Middle East and North Africa 
 
 
78 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
Management
17
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m  
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
2011       
Egypt ..................................................... 43 55 129 – (2) 225 
Qatar ..................................................... (4) 35 81 – – 112 
United Arab Emirates ........................... 134 240 200 (6) 7 575 
Other ..................................................... 17 109 93 – – 219 
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ......... 190 439 503 (6) 5 1,131 
Saudi Arabia ......................................... 57 98 140 4 62 361 
 247 537 643 (2) 67 1,492 
2010       
Egypt ..................................................... 38 82 77 – (2) 195 
Qatar ..................................................... 19 52 67 – – 138 
United Arab Emirates ........................... 17 186 121 1 (1) 324 
Other ..................................................... 19 57 (19) – – 57 
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ......... 93 377 246 1 (3) 714 
Saudi Arabia ......................................... 25 107 53 (16) 9 178 
 118 484 299 (15) 6 892 
2009       
Egypt ..................................................... 18 51 97 – 58  224 
Qatar ..................................................... 10 60 66 – – 136 
United Arab Emirates ........................... (177) (136) 307 (2) 5  (3)
Other ..................................................... 3 (15) (80) – (3) (95)
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ......... (146) (40) 390 (2) 60  262 
Saudi Arabia ......................................... 42 61 55 8 27  193 
 (104)21 445 6 87  455 
For footnote, see page 95. 
specific loan impairment charge related to a 
corporate customer. Customer deposits across the 
region grew by 10%, reflecting the overall resilience 
of the oil-based regional economies and the strength 
of the HSBC brand.  
We initiated a number of strategic programmes 
to optimise and reconfigure our branch network. 
This resulted in branch closures and consolidations 
in Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar and Bahrain together with 
an exit from our retail operations in Kuwait and part 
of our Principal Investments business. We also 
reconfigured domestic private banking in the UAE in 
order to focus solely on international private banking 
products and services through the conversion of the 
existing operation into a representative office for 
GPB. 
In RBWM, we continued to focus on wealth 
management and secured lending, while building 
long-term relationships through our Premier and 
Advance customer offerings. During 2011, we 
implemented new technologies to improve our 
financial planning capabilities. We also successfully 
launched mobile banking in the UAE, Oman, 
Bahrain and Jordan allowing customers to access 
HSBC Internet Banking instantly through smart 
phones. 
In CMB, we continued to strengthen our 
position as a leading international trade and business 
bank, achieving double-digit trade-related growth 
year-on-year and increasing market share in key 
markets. We also launched services to support 
settlements in renminbi to further facilitate trade 
between mainland China and the region. 
In the UAE, we entered into partnerships with a 
number of Free Trade Zones to provide improved 
access to banking services for internationally-
oriented SMEs.  
In Payments and Cash Management, we 
launched ‘ClientSphere’, a system which will further 
simplify cash management products and improve the 
overall customer experience. We also won a number 
of awards, including ‘Best Overall Bank for Cash 
Management in the Middle East’ from Global 
Finance Awards and ‘Best Cash Management Bank 
in the Middle East’ from Euromoney.   
 
79 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Greater collaboration between CMB and 
GB&M benefited both businesses with a significant 
increase in GB&M-related revenues from 2010. 
In GB&M, we continued to focus on our key 
clients and used our global expertise and reach both 
to complete a number of cross-border deals for 
regional clients and provide risk management 
solutions tailored for customer needs, including 
Islamic products. We won a number of awards, 
including ‘Best for Middle Eastern Currencies’ in 
the Euromoney FX survey and ‘Best Risk Advisor in 
Middle East’ from Euromoney. We continued to be 
recognised as a leading provider of Islamic financial 
services and we were awarded ‘Best Islamic 
Investment Bank, Middle East’ and ‘Sukuk House of 
the Year’ from The Asset Magazine Triple A Islamic 
Finance Awards. 
Net interest income rose by 6%, driven by 
strong growth in average trade lending balances in 
the second half of 2010 and throughout 2011 in 
CMB as we leveraged opportunities to support 
global and intra-regional trade flows. GB&M also 
benefited from the restructuring of a large customer 
facility along with improved spreads on investment 
portfolios. This was partly offset by a reduction in 
spreads in CMB as we priced competitively to drive 
volume growth. In addition, average lending 
balances declined in RBWM as unsecured lending 
portfolios continued to be managed down and 
replaced by higher quality lending resulting in an 
overall improvement in the credit quality of the 
portfolio. Central bank  regulations limiting interest 
rates on certain products in Qatar also contributed to 
lower net interest income.  
Net fee income decreased by 7%, despite higher 
trade volumes in CMB, as lower institutional equity 
activity in GB&M reflected the challenging political 
environment. In addition, net fee income in RBWM 
decreased due to a decline in the number of credit 
cards in issue as certain portfolios were managed 
down, along with lower late fees as a result of an 
improvement in delinquency rates. 
Trading income increased by 31%, mainly in 
Rates in GB&M due to an increase in government 
bond trading along with a net release of credit 
valuation adjustments driven by movements in 
exchange rates and an improvement in counterparty 
risk. A greater focus on sales of GB&M products to 
CMB customers, notably foreign exchange, also 
contributed to the rise in trading income.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions decreased markedly as the significant 
loan impairment charges which resulted from 
restructuring activity for a small number of large 
GB&M customers in 2010 did not recur. In addition, 
lower loan impairment charges in RBWM reflected a 
significant improvement in delinquency rates, which 
resulted from a repositioning of the loan book 
towards higher quality lending as we continued to 
manage down higher risk unsecured lending, 
together with strengthened collection practices. Our 
lending portfolios were not significantly adversely 
affected by political instability in the region, 
although uncertainties remain in certain of these 
markets.  
Operating expenses increased by 8% due 
to an increase in staff costs as we enhanced the 
employee base, and to a lesser extent, in line with 
inflation. Strategic programmes, including 
de-layering our management structure, streamlining 
our business processes and implementing the ‘hub 
and spoke’ model to drive future sustainable cost 
savings, resulted in lower staff numbers than last 
year. This resulted in restructuring costs of US$31m. 
Marketing costs also rose as we increased 
investment in the promotion of the HSBC brand.  
Profit from associates and joint ventures 
increased by 81%, mainly from The Saudi British 
Bank, driven by a decline in loan impairment 
charges as the credit environment in Saudi Arabia 
improved, along with cost control.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Middle East and North Africa  
 
 
80 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Middle East and North Africa 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 589  496 371 2 2  (28) 1,432 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 173  271 173 13 (3) –   627 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 62   95 266 1 (1) –   423 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................. –    –  32 –  (1) 28  59 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 62  95 298 1 (2) 28  482 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ –   –   –   –   10  –   10 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 1  1 (7) –   (3) –   (8)
Dividend income .......................... 1  1 3 –   –   –   5 
Other operating income/ 
(expense) ................................. 22  11 11 (1) 124  (108) 59 
Total operating income ............. 848  875 849 15 128  (108) 2,607 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. –   –   –   –   –   –   –   
Net operating income
52
 .............. 848  875 849 15 128  (108) 2,607 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (126) (116) (51) –   –   –   (293)
Net operating income ................ 722  759 798 15 128  (108) 2,314 
Total operating expenses ............. (535) (320) (295) (21) (96) 108  (1,159)
Operating profit/(loss) ............... 187  439 503 (6) 32  –   1,155 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 60  98 140 4 35  –   337 
Profit/(loss) before tax ............... 247  537 643 (2) 67  –   1,492 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  1.1    2.5  2.9 –  0.3      6.8 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  63.1    36.6  34.7  140.0  75.0      44.5 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 4,921  12,446 8,479 26 3   25,875 
Total assets .................................. 6,549  14,556 34,676 72 4,792  (3,181) 57,464 
Customer accounts ....................... 18,549  10,943 6,703 114 113   36,422 
 
   
 
81 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
  2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Management
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 553 473 334 – 14  (7) 1,367 
Net fee income ............................. 200 258 202 17 – – 677 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 59  85 205 1 (7)  – 343 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................. 1  7 18 – (6)  7  27 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 60 92 223 1 (13) 7  370 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ – – – – – – – 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 1 – (3) – (1) – (3)
Dividend income .......................... 2 1 4 – – – 7 
Other operating income/ 
(expense) ................................. 27 (8) (1) 1 40  (67) (8)
Total operating income ................ 843 816 759 19 40  (67) 2,410 
Net insurance claims
65 
.................
 – – – – – – – 
Net operating income
52 
................ 843  816 759 19 40  (67) 2,410 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (227) (145) (255) – – – (627)
Net operating income .................. 616 671 504 19 40  (67) 1,783 
Total operating expenses ............. (524) (297) (263) (18) (43) 67  (1,078)
Operating profit/(loss) ................. 92 374 241 1 (3) – 705 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 26 110 58 (16) 9  – 187 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................. 118 484 299 (15) 6  – 892 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  0.6    2.6  1.6  (0.1) –     4.7 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  62.2    36.4  34.7  94.7  107.5      44.7 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 5,063 12,293 7,247 21 2   24,626 
Total assets .................................. 6,286 13,991 31,253 59 4,129  (2,961) 52,757 
Customer accounts ....................... 17,538 10,319 5,306 290 58   33,511 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
 
 
82 
North America 
Our North American businesses are located in 
the US, Canada and Bermuda. Operations in 
the US are primarily conducted through HSBC 
Bank USA, N.A., and HSBC Finance, a national 
consumer finance company. HSBC Markets 
(USA) Inc. is the intermediate holding company 
of, inter alia, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.. HSBC 
Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda operate 
in their respective countries. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 11,480 12,439 13,670 
Net fee income .................. 3,308 3,664 4,817 
Net trading income/ 
(expense) ........................ (362) 314 331 
Other income/(expense) .... 1,574 630 (2,513)
Net operating income
52 
... 16,000 17,047 16,305 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (7,016) (8,295) (15,664)
Net operating income ..... 8,984 8,752 641 
Total operating expenses .. (8,919) (8,322) (8,391)
Operating profit/(loss) .... 65 430 (7,750)
Income from associates
54
 .. 35 24 12 
Profit/(loss) before tax .... 100 454 (7,738)
Cost efficiency ratio .........  55.7%   48.8%  51.5% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  0.0%   0.1%  (2.1)% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 30,981 33,865 35,458 
The sale of our Card and Retail Services 
business and 195 non-strategic branches 
announced 
Gross balances in 
run-off portfolio down by  
US$8.9bn  
to US$49.5bn  
Reported pre-tax profit of  
US$965m  
from our Canadian operations 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on North America is on an underlying basis 
unless stated otherwise. 
Economic background  
In the US, GDP expanded by 3.0% in 2010 and the 
adoption of stimulative tax policies at the end of that 
year suggested an even faster rate of growth in 2011. 
However, this failed to materialise for a number of 
reasons. The first was the adoption of fiscal austerity 
by state and local governments. Second, the sharp 
rise in crude oil prices in the first half of 2011 
dampened both business and consumer spending. By 
the second quarter of 2011, average crude oil prices 
were 50% higher than the levels a year earlier. The 
third development concerned the disruption to motor 
vehicle production caused by parts shortages arising 
from the Japanese earthquake. Finally, financial 
market turmoil caused by the eurozone debt crisis 
and the debt ceiling debate in Washington adversely 
affected business and consumer confidence. The 
housing market remained weak, although there were 
some tentative signs of recovery towards the end of 
the year, albeit from a very low level. As a result, 
GDP rose by only 1.7% in 2011.  
US headline inflation increased during 2011 
with the annual rate of CPI inflation rising to 3.1% 
compared with 1.7% in 2010, but core inflation 
remained subdued. The labour market recovery 
continued to be lacklustre; employment grew 
roughly 0.6% in 2011 following a decline of the 
same magnitude in 2010. The unemployment rate 
fell to 8.5% in December 2011, down from 9.6% in 
2010, but much of the decline can be attributed to a 
fall in labour force participation. The Federal 
Reserve remained focused on countering 
deflationary pressures; it committed itself to keeping 
the Fed funds rate in a range of 0 to 0.25% until at 
least mid-2013 and, in September, with the intention 
of exerting downward pressure on longer-term 
interest rates, it decided to extend the average 
maturity of its securities portfolio by selling 
US$400bn of short-term Treasury securities and 
buying an equivalent amount of longer-term 
Treasury securities in their place. These moves 
helped stabilise financial asset prices in the final 
quarter of the year. 
The annual rate of GDP growth in Canada 
slowed in 2011 to 2.4% from 3.2% in 2010. Slower 
economic growth in the US and other export partners 
in Europe held back the rate of growth and a 
slowdown in the pace of job creation dampened the 
growth of consumer spending as well. Higher energy 
prices contributed to a rise in inflation, leading to an 
increase in the annual rate of core CPI inflation to 
2.9% from 1.8% the year before. The Bank of 
Canada held its policy interest rate steady at 1.0% 
in 2011.   
83 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
Management
17
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m  
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
2011       
US ......................................................... (2,861) 431 567 83 782 (998)
Canada .................................................. 147 545 265 – 8 965 
Bermuda ................................................ 49 26 43 7 9 134 
Other ..................................................... – – – – (1) (1)
 (2,665) 1,002 875 90 798 100 
2010       
US ......................................................... (2,305) 402 1,284 113 (39) (545)
Canada .................................................. 131 505 227 – 4 867 
Bermuda ................................................ 58 32 38 (3) 7 132 
Other ..................................................... – – – 1 (1) – 
 (2,116)939 1,549 111 (29) 454 
2009       
US
69
 ....................................................... (5,275) 158 488 (49) (3,626) (8,304)
Canada .................................................. 34 347 142 – (100) 423 
Bermuda ................................................ 60 37 36 (2) 10  141 
Other ..................................................... – 1 1 1 (1) 2 
 (5,181) 543 667 (50) (3,717) (7,738)
For footnotes, see page 95.  
Review of performance 
Our operations in North America reported a profit 
before tax of US$100m in 2011, compared with 
US$454m in 2010, a decrease of 78%. Reported 
profits included favourable movements on our own 
debt designated at fair value of US$970m resulting 
from changes in credit spreads, compared with 
favourable movements of US$142m and a gain of 
US$66m on the sale of our stake in the Wells Fargo 
HSBC Trade Bank in 2010. On an underlying basis, 
which excludes the above, we reported a pre-tax loss 
of US$870m in 2011 compared with a profit before 
tax of US$285m in 2010.  
Our 2011 North American results continued to 
be affected by the pace of recovery of the US 
economy, in particular the decline in house prices 
and high levels of unemployment, as well as the 
impact of proposed regulatory changes and ongoing 
compliance initiatives. We expect these factors, as 
well as the ongoing delays in foreclosure processes, 
to continue to affect our results going forward. 
The reduction in our underlying profit was 
partly attributable to a decline in GB&M driven 
by higher costs, mainly from compliance and 
remediation, lower releases of collective loan 
impairment allowances and reduced trading income, 
which in part reflected the non-recurrence of price 
appreciation on assets in the legacy credit portfolio. 
In our consumer finance portfolios, revenue 
continued to decline following the reduction in 
lending balances, and adverse fair value movements 
on non-qualifying hedges increased reflecting lower 
long-term US interest rates. However, these effects 
were partly offset by a corresponding decline in loan 
impairment charges.  
Performance in the second half of 2011 
deteriorated, driven by an increase in adverse fair 
value movements on non-qualifying hedges as 
US long-term interest rates declined reflecting 
increased concerns regarding the pace of US 
economic recovery and ongoing eurozone 
concerns. In addition, there was a marked rise in 
loan impairment charges in our run-off portfolio, 
reflecting deterioration in delinquency rates, 
and higher estimated costs to obtain and realise 
collateral, both related to the industry-wide delays 
in foreclosure processing. 
Our Canadian business continued to perform 
strongly during 2011. Profit before tax increased by 
4% to US$955m driven by improved credit quality 
in our CMB business, while in GB&M, higher pre-
tax profits were driven by a rise in revenue from 
Balance Sheet Management. 
In 2011, we made significant progress in our 
strategy for our North American businesses. In the 
second half of 2011, we announced the sale of our 
Card and Retail Services business to Capital One 
Financial Group, which we expect to complete in the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
 
 
84 
first half of 2012. We also announced the sale of 195 
non-strategic branches, principally in upstate New 
York, to First Niagara Bank, N.A. We expect this 
transaction to close in stages, commencing in 
the second quarter of 2012. These transactions 
remain subject to regulatory approval. In addition, 
we announced the disposal of our Canadian 
investment advisory business and sold our private 
equity businesses in the US and Canada as well as 
the cessation of life insurance manufacturing in the 
US, with effect from January 2012. 
The results of our Card and Retail Services 
business can be seen on page 46. We expect the sale 
of this business to have a significant impact on both 
the revenue and profitability of our North American 
operations going forward. 
In 2011, we incurred charges of US$236m 
(2010: US$13m) associated with restructuring 
activities in North America which included the 
impairment of software development costs. In 
addition we reduced the size of many of our support 
functions to correspond to the reduced scale of 
our operations in the region. During 2011 we 
achieved about US$240m of sustainable savings. 
In RBWM, we remained focused on managing 
down the residual balances in our run-off CML 
portfolio. We also continued to direct efforts towards 
the expansion of wealth management and Premier 
propositions. 
In our CMB and GB&M businesses, we 
continued to proactively target companies that trade 
and invest internationally. In 2011, we increased the 
number of CMB relationship managers in areas with 
strong international connectivity, including the US 
West Coast, Texas, Florida and central Canada. We 
grew revenue from the sale of GB&M products to 
CMB customers and, in GB&M, we continued to 
interconnect our operations across the Americas to 
deliver more integrated solutions for our customers. 
Net interest income declined by 8% to 
US$11.5bn, primarily due to lower lending balances 
in HSBC Finance resulting from the continued run-
off of the residual balances in the CML portfolio, as 
well as the sale of our vehicle finance portfolio in 
2010. In Card and Retail Services, lower net interest 
income reflected a reduction in lending balances 
despite higher customer spending, as our customers 
continued to reduce outstanding credit card debt. It 
was also affected by lower yields due to the effects 
of the US Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility 
and Disclosure Act (‘CARD Act’), which included 
restrictions on the repricing of delinquent accounts. 
These reductions were partly offset by a fall in our 
cost of funds. 
Net interest income from Balance Sheet 
Management activities increased compared with 
2010, largely driven by an increase in securities 
holdings in the US investment portfolio, and 
favourable positioning for interest rate movements 
in Canada. 
Net fee income fell by 10% to US$3.3bn 
reflecting the closure of our Taxpayer Financial 
Services business and the sale of our vehicle finance 
loan portfolio and loan servicing platform in 2010.  
In our Card and Retail Services business fee 
income reduced, driven by lower late and overlimit 
fees reflecting reduced delinquencies and fewer 
accounts, as well as the effect of customers actively 
seeking to reduce credit card debt and the CARD 
Act. In addition, fee expense rose as revenue-share 
payments to our credit card partners increased as 
improved portfolio performance resulted in 
increased cash flows. The decline in net fee income 
was partly offset by a reduction in fees written off 
reflecting lower fees billed to our customers and 
improved credit quality. 
Net trading expense of US$362m compared 
with net trading income of US$319m in 2010, 
primarily driven by an increase in adverse fair value 
movements on non-qualifying hedges used to 
economically hedge floating rate debt issued by 
HSBC Finance. This was due to a decrease in long-
term US interest rates, reflecting heightened 
concerns regarding the pace of US economic 
recovery and the ongoing eurozone crisis. These 
rates declined to a greater extent than in 2010, 
resulting in adverse fair value movements of 
US$1.1bn in 2011 compared with US$353m in 
2010. 
In GB&M, trading income declined by 29% as 
revenue in the legacy credit portfolio was adversely 
affected by the non-recurrence of price appreciation 
on assets, as well as a 2010 gain from a legal 
settlement of US$89m relating to certain loans 
previously purchased for resale from a third party 
which did not recur, and the exit from the Bank 
Notes business in 2010. This decline was partly 
offset by a rise in foreign exchange and metals 
revenue, reflecting greater client activity and 
increased price volatility resulting from global 
economic uncertainty. Metals revenue also benefited 
from a rally in precious metal prices. In addition, 
growth in revenue from Rates was driven by an 
increase in new deal activity. In RBWM, charges 
for loan repurchase obligations relating to loans 
previously sold fell from US$341m to US$92m.  
 
85 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
increased by 82% following the sale of available-
for-sale debt securities in the Balance Sheet 
Management portfolio. These transactions were 
undertaken to manage portfolio risk and duration. 
Other operating income increased by 37% to 
US$226m due to the non-recurrence of losses on the 
sale of our vehicle finance loan portfolio in 2010. 
This was partly offset by adverse movements in the 
PVIF asset within the insurance business reflecting 
assumption updates, including an increase in 
expected expense rates and updates to mortality, 
as well as the non-recurrence of a US$56m gain on 
the sale of our New York headquarters in 2010. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions decreased by 16% to US$7.0bn, the 
lowest reported level since 2006.  
Loan impairment charges in the CML portfolio 
fell reflecting the continued run-off, partly offset by 
higher costs to obtain collateral and delays in the 
timing of expected cash flows from our real estate 
secured portfolio as a result of the delays in 
processing foreclosures. Loan impairment charges 
increased in the second half of 2011 following a 
deterioration in delinquency and the adverse effects 
of the continued disruption to foreclosures. 
We anticipate delinquency and write-off levels 
in the CML portfolio will remain under pressure in 
2012 as the US economic environment continues 
to affect our business, as well as from foreclosure 
delays. The magnitude of these trends will largely 
be dependent on economic recovery, including 
unemployment rates and improvements in the 
housing market. 
In our Card and Retail Services business, loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
declined by 26% to US$1.6bn driven by lower 
lending balances and improved delinquency rates 
as overall credit quality improved. 
Further commentary on delinquency trends in 
the US RBWM portfolios is provided in ‘Areas of 
special interest – US personal lending’ on page 124. 
In CMB, loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions declined by 68%, with 
significant reductions in both Canada and the US. 
This was mainly due to lower lending balances and 
improved credit quality in Canada. In the US the 
decline was mainly in the commercial real estate and 
mid-market sectors, while loan impairment charges 
in Business Banking also declined reflecting 
improved credit quality and lower delinquency 
levels. This was partly offset by a specific loan 
impairment charge associated with the downgrade of 
a commercial real estate loan exposure. 
The reduction in loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions was partly offset by an 
increase in GB&M reflecting lower releases of 
collective loan impairment allowances than in 2010. 
In addition, 2011 included an individually assessed 
loan impairment charge associated with a corporate 
lending relationship.  
Operating expenses increased by 7% to 
US$8.9bn, including an increase in litigation 
provisions and a new provision of US$257m related 
to US mortgage foreclosure servicing costs. In 
addition, we incurred a charge of US$48m 
associated with costs expected to arise from 
foreclosure delays involving loans serviced for 
GSEs. During 2011, restructuring initiatives resulted 
in charges of US$236m, while in 2010 operating 
expenses benefited from a pension curtailment gain 
of US$147m.  
Operating expenses also increased in our 
GB&M business. This largely reflected higher legal 
and compliance costs, and an increase in staff costs 
which included higher amortisation charges for 
previous years’ performance shares and accelerated 
expense recognition of current year deferred bonus 
awards. The drivers of expense growth in North 
America were in part offset by lower costs following 
the sale of the vehicle finance servicing operation in 
2010 and the closure of Taxpayer Financial Services, 
as well as lower marketing expenses in our Card 
and Retail Services business. Our third party 
collection costs were also lower, reflecting reduced 
delinquencies and the continued run-off of lending 
balances in the CML portfolio.  
We expect that costs incurred in ensuring that 
we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage 
foreclosure process will increase our operating 
expenses in the future. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
 
 
86 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – North America 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 8,931  1,528 893 187 9  (68) 11,480 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 1,836  551 773 149 (1) – 3,308 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . (946)  34 261 17 (26) – (660)
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................. 25   1 205 – (1) 68  298 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... (921) 35 466 17 (27) 68  (362)
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – 967 – 967
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ –  – (5) – 2  – (3)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ – – (5) – 969  – 964 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 58  7 195 – 2  – 262 
Dividend income .......................... 15  9 13 3 – – 40 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 236  – – – – – 236 
Other operating income ............... (125) 110 193 11 2,244  (2,207) 226 
Total operating income ............. 10,030  2,240 2,528 367 3,196  (2,207) 16,154 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (154) – – – – – (154)
Net operating income
52
 .............. 9,876  2,240 2,528 367 3,196  (2,207) 16,000 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions ............... (6,929) (105) (11) 30 (1) – (7,016)
Net operating income ................ 2,947  2,135 2,517 397 3,195  (2,207) 8,984 
Total operating expenses ............. (5,615) (1,166) (1,642) (307) (2,396) 2,207  (8,919)
Operating profit/(loss) ............... (2,668) 969 875 90 799  – 65 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 3  33 – – (1) – 35 
Profit/(loss) before tax ............... (2,665) 1,002 875 90 798  – 100 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  (12.2)   4.6  4.0  0.4  3.7      0.5 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  56.9    52.1  65.0  83.7  75.0      55.7 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
(net) reported in:        
– loans and advances to 
customers (net) ..................... 86,490  32,215 19,289 4,753 –  142,747 
– assets held for sale (disposal 
groups) .................................. 31,058 520 – – –  31,578 
Total assets .................................. 144,278  43,747 320,783 7,138 10,378  (22,022) 504,302 
Customer accounts reported in:        
– customer accounts ................ 63,558  47,003 30,465 14,862 94   155,982 
– liabilities of disposal groups 
held for sale  10,104 5,040 – – –  15,144 
   
87 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 9,912  1,525 952 190 (71) (69) 12,439 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 2,142  534 845 149 (6) – 3,664 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . (472)  17 563 13 (12) – 109 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... 24   2 93 – 17  69  205 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... (448) 19 656 13 5  69  314 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives ............................... –  – – – 111 – 111
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 6   – (2) – (4) – –
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 6 – (2) – 107 – 111 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 5  (6) 141 – 3  – 143 
Dividend income .......................... 18  7 12 3 2  – 42 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 245  – – – – – 245 
Other operating income ............... (250) 242 71 15 2,351  (2,196) 233 
Total operating income ................ 11,630  2,321 2,675 370 2,391  (2,196) 17,191 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (148) – – – 4  – (144)
Net operating income
52
 ................ 11,482  2,321 2,675 370 2,395  (2,196) 17,047 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions ............... (8,194) (323) 184 38 – – (8,295)
Net operating income .................. 3,288  1,998 2,859 408 2,395  (2,196) 8,752 
Total operating expenses ............. (5,408) (1,081) (1,310) (297) (2,422) 2,196  (8,322)
Operating profit/(loss) ................. (2,120) 917 1,549 111 (27) – 430 
Share of profit/(loss) in  
associates and joint ventures ... 4  22 – – (2) – 24 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................. (2,116) 939 1,549 111 (29) – 454 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  (11.1)   5.0  8.1  0.6  (0.2)     2.4 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  47.1    46.6  49.0  80.3  101.1      48.8 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 131,194  30,277 24,338 4,723 –  190,532 
Total assets .................................. 154,204  39,213 306,298 5,824 9,373  (22,425) 492,487 
Customer accounts ....................... 76,817  46,425 22,324 12,812 108   158,486 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America / Latin America 
 
 
88 
North America RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 
 2011 2010 
 Card and  
 Retail  
 Services  
 US$m  
 Run-off 
 portfolios 
 US$m 
 Rest of
 RBWM
 US$m 
 RBWM
 US$m 
 Card and
 Retail
 Services
 US$m 
 Run-off  
 portfolios 
 US$m  
 Rest of
 RBWM
 US$m  
 RBWM 
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax         
Net interest income ..................... 4,128 2,990 1,813 8,931 4,727 3,404 1,781 9,912 
Net fee income/(expense) ........... 1,273 (49) 612 1,836 1,333 55 754 2,142 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  – (1,145) 199 (946) – (377) (95) (472)
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... – – 25 25 – – 24 24
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 .. – (1,145) 224 (921) – (377) (71) (448)
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – –– – –
Net income from other  
financial instruments 
designated at fair value ........... – – – – –– 6 6
Net income from financial 
instruments designated  
at fair value ............................. – – – – – – 6 6 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. – 55 3 58 – 5 – 5 
Dividend income ......................... – 5 10 15 3 3 12 18 
Net earned insurance premiums . – 230 6 236 – 236 9 245 
Other operating income .............. 61 (185) (1) (125) 52 (253) (49) (250)
Total operating income ............ 5,462 1,901 2,667 10,030 6,115 3,073 2,442 11,630 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................ – (156) 2 (154) – (152) 4 (148)
Net operating income
52
 ............. 5,462 1,745 2,669 9,876 6,115 2,921 2,446 11,482 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (1,600) (4,982) (347) (6,929) (2,174) (5,811) (209) (8,194)
Net operating income/(expense) . 3,862 (3,237) 2,322 2,947 3,941 (2,890) 2,237 3,288 
Total operating expenses ............ (1,801) (1,238) (2,576) (5,615) (1,962) (1,190) (2,256) (5,408)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 2,061 (4,475) (254) (2,668) 1,979 (4,080) (19) (2,120)
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... – 3 – 3 – 4 – 4 
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 2,061 (4,472) (254) (2,665) 1,979 (4,076) (19) (2,116)
         
  %   %  %  %  %  %  %   % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  9.4   (20.4) (1.2) (12.2) 10.4  (21.4)   (0.1)   (11.1)
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  33.0   70.9  96.5  56.9  32.1  40.7   92.2   47.1 
         
Balance sheet data
49
         
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
(net) reported in:         
–  loans and advances to  
customers ............................ – 43,543 42,947 86,490 30,710 55,010 45,474 131,194 
–  assets held for sale (disposal 
groups) ................................ 29,137 – 1,921 31,058 – – – – 
Total assets ................................. 30,635 56,830 56,813 144,278 32,044 70,587 51,573 154,204 
Customer accounts reported in:         
–  customer accounts .............. – – 63,558 63,558 – – 76,817 76,817 
–  liabilities of disposal groups 
held for sale ........................ – – 10,104 10,104 – – – – 
For footnotes, see page 95.   
 
89 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Latin America 
Our operations in Latin America principally 
comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.-Banco 
Múltiplo, HSBC México, S.A., HSBC Bank 
Argentina S.A. and HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. 
In addition to banking services, we operate 
insurance businesses in Brazil, Mexico, 
Argentina and Panama. 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 6,956 6,311 5,573 
Net fee income .................. 1,781 1,749 1,729 
Net trading income ........... 1,378 733 848 
Other income .................... 1,338 938 874 
Net operating income
52 
... 11,453 9,731 9,024 
Impairment charges
53
 ........ (1,883) (1,544) (2,526)
Net operating income ..... 9,570 8,187 6,498 
Total operating expenses .. (7,255) (6,394) (5,375)
Operating profit .............. 2,315 1,793 1,123 
Income from associates
54
 .. – 2 1 
Profit before tax .............. 2,315 1,795 1,124 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  63.3%   65.7%  59.6% 
RoRWA
55
 ..........................  2.3%   2.0%  1.4% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 54,035 56,044 54,288 
Underlying pre-tax profit driven by  
strong revenue growth  
and operating expense discipline 
14% 
growth in CMB lending balances 
Strong increase  
in sales of GB&M products  
to CMB customers 
 
 
 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
The commentary on Latin America is on an underlying basis 
unless stated otherwise. 
Economic background 
In Brazil, economic growth in 2011 slowed more 
quickly than expected, and is anticipated to have 
ended the year with the economy growing at an 
annual rate of 3%. While the fallout from the crisis 
in the eurozone contributed to the slowdown, it was 
mostly attributable to an easing in domestic demand 
following a tightening in monetary conditions in 
response to rising inflation. By the end of 2011 
inflation had fallen to 6.5% after peaking at around 
7.5% in June. This allowed the government to 
reverse much of the policy tightening implemented 
in early 2011. 
Mexico’s economy maintained a robust rate of 
growth in 2011, although export growth moderated 
at the end of the year on the back of lower external 
demand. By contrast, domestic demand continued to 
strengthen, reflecting the greater availability of 
credit, growth in wages and a steady reduction in 
unemployment. GDP grew at an annual rate of 3.9% 
in 2011. The annual rate of CPI inflation rose at the 
end of 2011 to 3.8% due to a rebound in some 
agricultural prices and exchange rate depreciation. 
The Central Bank of Mexico maintained its policy 
interest rate at 4.5% throughout the year. 
In Argentina, during the first three quarters of 
2011, real GDP increased by 9.4% compared with 
the same period in 2010, mainly from increases in 
consumption of 11.3% and in gross fixed investment 
of 19.9%. The annual rate of CPI inflation remained 
high and the GDP deflator measure of inflation 
accelerated to 16.4% in the third quarter of 2011. 
Review of performance 
In Latin America, our operations reported a profit 
before tax of US$2.3bn in 2011, an increase of 29% 
compared with 2010. On an underlying basis, which 
excludes a gain of US$83m from the sale of HSBC 
Afore (the Mexican pension administration 
business), profit before tax increased by 21%. This 
was driven by strong growth in lending balances in 
our CMB and RBWM businesses in Brazil, which 
reflected the favourable economic environment. 
Improved revenue in GB&M arose from higher 
income from foreign exchange driven by greater 
volatility and an increase in client activity, while 
growth in insurance revenue followed an increase in 
our sales force. This was partly offset by cost growth 
driven by restructuring initiatives, inflationary 
pressures and business growth, while a rise in loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
reflected the strong rise in lending, particularly in 
Brazil.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Latin America  
 
 
90 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
Management
17
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m  
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
2011       
Argentina .............................................. 91 107 148 – (2) 344 
Brazil ..................................................... 241 566 515 13 (105) 1,230 
Mexico .................................................. 403 129 268 4 (178) 626 
Panama .................................................. 23 59 52 3 (9) 128 
Other ..................................................... (55) 6 66 – (30) (13)
 703 867 1,049 20 (324) 2,315 
2010       
Argentina .............................................. 89 90 105 – – 284 
Brazil ..................................................... 151 382 430 6 64 1,033 
Mexico .................................................. 174 24 210 4 (11) 401 
Panama .................................................. 48 57 33 2 – 140 
Other ..................................................... (100) 1 51 (2) (13) (63)
 362 554 829 10 40 1,795 
2009       
Argentina .............................................. 25 86 121 – – 232 
Brazil ..................................................... (202) 211 493 5 3  510 
Mexico .................................................. (24) 66 223 7 – 272 
Panama .................................................. 69 55 24 – – 148 
Other ..................................................... (54) (19) 40 (1) (4) (38)
 (186) 399 901 11 (1) 1,124 
For footnote, see page 95. 
During 2011, we made progress in the execution 
of our regional strategy while also improving the 
efficiency of our operations. We recruited additional 
relationship managers in our CMB businesses in 
Brazil to support business growth, particularly from 
Business Banking and mid-market customers and the 
increasing number of businesses with international 
requirements. We increased our focus on sales and 
customer service with the addition of relationship 
managers in RBWM in Brazil, and opened 14 new 
branches in Argentina to capture opportunities 
arising from demographic changes and upward 
social mobility. 
In order to improve the risk profile of our 
RBWM business we continued to reposition our 
lending portfolio towards higher credit-quality 
customers, notably by building long-term 
relationships with customers. In Brazil, we increased 
our focus on secured lending and wealth 
management products. 
In GB&M, our pre-tax profits increased to over 
US$1.0bn in 2011 as we continued to utilise the 
connectivity of the HSBC network to serve the 
growing number of global corporate businesses in 
Latin America. During 2011, our GB&M sales force 
actively targeted our CMB customer base and 
achieved strong growth in revenue compared with 
2010, most notably from the sale of GB&M foreign 
exchange products. 
To enhance efficiency, we restructured our 
regional and country support functions, and in 
Mexico we consolidated the branch network, 
reducing it by 43 in the last quarter of 2010 and 77 
in 2011. In the second half of 2011 we completed 
the sale of HSBC Afore and our retail banking 
operations in Chile. As a consequence, we reduced 
staff numbers by more than 1,900 in 2011. 
In January 2012, we entered into an agreement 
to sell our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and 
El Salvador. We expect to complete this transaction 
during 2012, subject to regulatory approval. 
Net interest income rose by 7% to US$7.0bn, 
driven by growth in average lending balances in both 
2010 and in 2011. This was mainly in CMB and 
RBWM, reflecting favourable economic conditions 
and growing consumer demand, partly offset by a 
rise in internal funding costs on higher balances of 
reverse repos and government bonds held for 
trading. In CMB, we grew our average customer 
lending balances, particularly in Brazil, reflecting the 
favourable economic conditions, the increase in our 
customer base and our investment in relationship 
managers. The rise was mainly in working capital 
products following marketing campaigns and new   
 
91 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
product launches, while higher overdraft balances 
arose from increased utilisation rates. We also grew 
our trade-related lending in response to strong 
customer demand and our focus on sales to 
customers with international connectivity. In 
RBWM, increased average lending balances and 
strong lending growth in 2011 led to higher net 
interest income, mainly in Brazil and Argentina, 
reflecting economic growth, lower unemployment 
and increased household income. This was partly 
offset by a compression of asset spreads in Mexico 
and Brazil as an increased proportion of our lending 
book comprised secured, lower-yielding products.  
Net fee income declined marginally, driven by a 
reduction in Mexico where regulatory changes 
relating to ATM transactions resulted in a reduction 
in the fees we were able to charge for use of our 
network. Credit card fees in Mexico declined as a 
result of lower balances. This was partly offset by 
growth in fee income from our CMB business in 
Brazil, mainly in Payments and Cash Management 
and Account Services, reflecting increased volumes. 
Net trading income was 82% higher than in 
2010. The majority of the increase was in Brazil due 
to a rise in net interest income earned on trading 
activities resulting from an increase in reverse repos 
and government bonds held for trading. The cost of 
internally funding these assets also increased, but 
the related interest expense is reported within ‘Net 
interest income’. Additionally, trading income in 
Brazil increased as a result of higher revenue from 
sales of foreign exchange products reflecting market 
volatility, while in Mexico higher trading income 
was due to the completion of a small number of 
individually large derivative transactions in GB&M. 
Net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was 26% higher than in 
2010, mainly due to growth in premiums from unit-
linked pension products in Brazil which resulted in 
an increase in the underlying financial assets. Since 
investment income accruing from these assets was 
largely attributable to policyholders, there was a 
corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
rose by 36%, mainly due to a gain on the sale of 
shares in a Mexican listed company and increased 
gains from the sale of debt securities in Argentina. 
Net insurance premiums increased by 26% to 
US$2.7bn. This was mainly in Brazil, reflecting 
strong growth in sales of unit linked pension and life 
and credit protection products, following an increase 
in the sales force and targeted sales campaigns. In 
Argentina, strong growth in net insurance premiums 
was mainly attributable to volume growth and the 
repricing of motor insurance policies in response to 
inflationary pressures. In Mexico, a rise in net 
insurance premiums was principally due to higher 
sales of an endowment product and improved term 
life lapse rates. The growth in net insurance 
premiums, as well as the increase in policyholder 
assets described above, resulted in corresponding 
increases in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders’. 
Other operating income of US$244m was 74% 
higher than in 2010 due to gains of US$61m 
resulting from the sale and leaseback of branches in 
Mexico. In addition, there was a net increase in the 
PVIF in Brazil and Mexico as a result of higher life 
insurance sales, partly offset by a net decrease from 
experience and assumption updates in addition to a 
higher unwind of cash flows from the growing in-
force book. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions rose by 17% to US$1.9bn. The increase 
was mainly in Brazil driven by strong lending 
growth in RBWM and CMB, as well as worsening 
delinquency in the second half of 2011, notably in 
the credit card and Business Banking portfolios. In 
addition, higher loan impairment charges included a 
significant individually assessed loan impairment 
charge related to a single commercial customer. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions in Mexico declined by 28% reflecting the 
continued managed decline of the higher risk sections 
of the credit card portfolio, as well as improvements 
to both the collections and credit quality of the 
portfolio following targeted sales campaigns and 
enhanced pre-screening.  
Operating expenses were 10% higher than in 
2010. In 2011, we incurred US$338m of 
restructuring costs, the majority of which are 
reported in ‘Other’, as we took steps to improve the 
ongoing efficiency of our operations in the region, 
including cancelling certain regional projects, 
restructuring regional and country support functions 
and consolidating the branch network in Mexico.  
In addition, operating expenses were adversely 
affected by inflationary pressures across the region, 
as well as union agreed wage increases and a rise in 
volume-driven transactional taxes in Brazil and 
Argentina. Sustainable savings of about US$220m 
resulting from the restructuring and organisational 
effectiveness programmes enabled investment in 
strategic initiatives, including the recruitment of 
additional relationship managers.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Latin America 
 
 
92 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America 
 2011 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m  
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) ..... 4,519  2,229 882 25 (7) (692) 6,956 
Net fee income ............................. 939  610 196 36 – – 1,781 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 68   106 372 5 (7) – 544 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... –  – 134 – 8  692  834 
Net trading income
56
 .................... 68  106 506 5 1  692  1,378 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ 424  124 2 – – – 550 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 11  1 124 1 – – 137 
Dividend income .......................... 10  3 1 – – – 14 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 2,068  551 34 – – – 2,653 
Other operating income ............... 265  57 32 2 222  (250) 328 
Total operating income ............. 8,304  3,681 1,777 69 216  (250) 13,797 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (1,850) (478) (16) – – – (2,344)
Net operating income
52
 .............. 6,454  3,203 1,761 69 216  (250) 11,453 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (1,369) (501) (12) – (1) – (1,883)
Net operating income ................ 5,085  2,702 1,749 69 215  (250) 9,570 
Total operating expenses ............. (4,382) (1,835) (700) (49) (539) 250  (7,255)
Operating profit/(loss) ............... 703  867 1,049 20 (324) – 2,315 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... – – – – – – – 
Profit/(loss) before tax ............... 703  867 1,049 20 (324) – 2,315 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  3.2    4.0  4.8  0.1  (1.5)     10.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  67.9    57.3  39.8  71.0  249.5      63.3 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 19,025  25,834 11,011 62 6   55,938 
Total assets .................................. 39,231  38,410 66,241 1,660 417  (1,070) 144,889 
Customer accounts ....................... 28,629  24,050 18,940 7,079 62   78,760 
   
93 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 2010 
 
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
 Manage- 
 ment
17
 
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
17
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
64 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 3,979  1,671 772 20 121  (252) 6,311 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 1,006  526 191 32 (6) – 1,749 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 35   72 370 3 (27) – 453 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ...................... –  – 28 – – 252  280 
Net trading income/(expense)
56
 ... 35  72 398 3 (27) 252  733 
Net income from financial 
instruments designated  
at fair value .............................. 339 85 1 – – – 425 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 6  2 93 – (3) – 98 
Dividend income .......................... 7  2 3 – – – 12 
Net earned insurance premiums .. 1,651  374 29 – – – 2,054 
Other operating income ............... 98  34 15 2 221  (229) 141 
Total operating income ................ 7,121  2,766 1,502 57 306  (229) 11,523 
Net insurance claims
65
 ................. (1,479) (297) (16) – – – (1,792)
Net operating income
52
 ................ 5,642  2,469 1,486 57 306  (229) 9,731 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (1,247) (293) (4) – – – (1,544)
Net operating income .................. 4,395  2,176 1,482 57 306  (229) 8,187 
Total operating expenses ............. (4,034) (1,623) (653) (47) (266) 229  (6,394)
Operating profit ........................... 361 553 829 10 40  – 1,793 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 1  1 – – – – 2 
Profit before tax ........................... 362  554 829 10 40  – 1,795 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  1.9    2.9  4.3  0.1  0.2      9.4 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  71.5    65.7  43.9  82.5  86.9      65.7 
        
Balance sheet data
49
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 20,823  24,879 12,242 43 –  57,987 
Total assets .................................. 38,819  35,619 64,635 1,608 196  (939) 139,938 
Customer accounts ....................... 30,149  24,514 27,810 6,053 –  88,526 
For footnotes, see page 95. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Other information / Footnotes 
 
 
94 
Other information 
Funds under management and assets held in 
custody 
Funds under management 
 2011 2010 
 US$bn US$bn 
Funds under management   
At 1 January ................................. 925 857 
Net new money ............................ 2 42 
Value change ............................... (40) 33 
Exchange and other ..................... (40) (7)
At 31 December ........................... 847 925 
 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$bn US$bn 
Funds under management by 
business 
  
Global Asset Management .......... 396 439 
Global Private Banking ............... 259 277 
Affiliates ...................................... 3 3 
Other ............................................ 189 206 
 847 925 
Funds under management (‘FuM’) at 31 December 
2011 amounted to US$847bn, a decrease of 8% 
when compared with 2010. Both Global Asset 
Management and GPB fund holdings decreased, 
reflecting adverse equity market and foreign 
exchange movements. 
Global Asset Management funds, including 
emerging market funds, decreased by 10% to 
US$396bn as a result of client withdrawals from 
lower yielding liquidity funds mainly in Europe and 
North America and adverse global equity markets 
performance and foreign exchange movements, 
partly offset by inflows in long-term funds, 
particularly in Europe.  
GPB funds decreased by 7% compared with 
31 December 2010 to US$259bn as net new money 
inflows which benefited from cross-business 
referrals and the focus on faster-growing market 
business were more than offset by adverse 
movements in financial markets and foreign 
exchange. Client assets, which include FuM and 
cash deposits and provide an indicator of overall 
GPB volumes, decreased by US$12bn to US$377bn 
due to the reduction in FuM. 
Other FuM, decreased by 8% to US$189bn 
primarily due to the disposal of the real estate and 
infrastructure fund management activity during the 
year. 
Assets held in custody and under 
administration 
Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of 
securities and other financial assets on behalf of 
clients. At 31 December 2011, we held assets as 
custodian of US$5.2 trillion, 7% lower than the 
US$5.7 trillion held at 31 December 2010. This was 
mainly driven by a decrease in the market value of 
assets and adverse foreign exchange movements. 
Our assets under administration business, which 
includes the provision of various support function 
activities including the valuation of portfolios of 
securities and other financial assets on behalf of 
clients, complements the custody business. At 
31 December 2011, the value of assets held under 
administration by the Group amounted to 
US$2.6 trillion, compared with US$2.7 trillion 
in 2010. 
Property 
At 31 December 2011, we operated from some 
9,500 operational properties worldwide, of which 
approximately 2,270 were located in Europe, 2,940 
in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 840 in North 
America, 3,210 in Latin America and 250 in the 
Middle East and North Africa. These properties had 
an area of approximately 65.7m square feet (2010: 
71.3m square feet). 
Our freehold and long leasehold properties, 
together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, 
were valued in 2011. The value of these properties 
was US$8.9bn (2010: US$7.1bn) in excess of their 
carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet. 
In addition, properties with a net book value of 
US$1.3bn were held for investment purposes.  
Our operational properties are stated at cost, 
being historical cost or fair value at the date of 
transition to IFRSs (their deemed cost) less any 
impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis 
calculated to write off the assets over their estimated 
useful lives. Properties owned as a consequence of 
an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value. 
Further details are included in Note 25 on the 
Financial Statements. 
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
Details are included in Note 44 on the Financial 
Statements.   
95 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Accounting for deferred bonus arrangements 
Recent regulatory and best practice guidance has 
clarified the required structure and terms of deferred 
bonus arrangements awarded to employees, who 
now have a better understanding of the likely nature 
of awards to be granted in respect of a particular 
financial year. As a result, the vesting period in 
respect of deferred awards expected to be granted in 
March 2012 is therefore determined to have started 
on 1 January 2011. An additional expense of 
US$163m in respect of these deferred awards was 
recognised in ‘Operating expenses’ during 2011. 
 
Footnotes to pages 2 to 93 
Financial highlights 
  1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, 
or for, that year. The third interim dividend for 2010 of US$0.08 was paid on 12 January 2011. The fourth interim dividend for 2010 of 
US$0.12 was paid on 5 May 2011. First, second and third interim dividends for 2011, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 
6 July 2011, 6 October 2011 and 18 January 2012, respectively. Note 11 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the 
dividends declared in 2011. On 27 February 2012 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary 
share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 2 May 2012 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds 
sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 23 April 2012, with a scrip dividend alternative. The reserves 
available for distribution at 31 December 2011 were US$34,621m. 
 Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 
per Series A ADS, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2011, 15 June 
2011, 15 September 2011 and 15 December 2011.  
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 18 January 2011, 15 April 2011, 
15 July 2011 and 15 October 2011. 
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 
15 December 2011. 
  2 Return on average invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. Average invested capital is measured 
as average total shareholders’ equity after adding back goodwill previously amortised or written-off directly to reserves, deducting 
average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting/(adding) average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on 
effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities and property revaluation reserves. This measure reflects capital initially 
invested and subsequent profit. 
  3 The return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by 
average ordinary shareholders’ equity. 
  4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions. 
  5 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares. 
  6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period. 
  7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index, the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital 
International World Bank Index. 
  8 The core tier 1 capital ratio in 2011 includes the effect of the Basel 2.5 rules. 
  9 HBEU is HSBC Bank plc; HBAP is The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation; and HBUS is HSBC Bank USA. Figures 
provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate the major overseas branches of these 
entities. Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries 
and the parent. ‘Other entities’ comprise our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range 
of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market 
conditions. 
 
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax  
10 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are 
attributable to acquisitions or disposals gains on the dilution of interests in associates and/or movements in fair value of own debt 
attributable to credit spread. The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year. 
11 ‘Currency translation’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of 
exchange applicable in the current year. 
12 Excluding adjustments in 2010. 
13 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable. 
14 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued. This does not include the fair value changes due 
to own credit spread on structured notes issued and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities.  
15 Other income in this context comprises net trading income, net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair 
value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less 
net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
16 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
17 With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from GB&M to RBWM. Comparative data have 
been adjusted accordingly. 
18 Excluding adjustments in 2009. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Footnotes 
 
 
96 
Financial summary 
19 In 2008, an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in ‘Total operating 
expenses’. This amount is excluded from ‘Total operating expenses’ in calculating the ratio. 
20 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share. 
21 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share. 
22 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in ‘Trading income’. In 
our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&M’ s net trading income as interest expense. 
23 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’).  
24 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan 
fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds. 
25 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA. 
26 In 2011, ‘other interest-earning assets’ includes the average assets of disposal groups held for sale. In prior years other interest-earning 
assets included intercompany eliminations. In 2011, intercompany eliminations have been included in the relevant line item. 
27 Interest income on trading assets is reported as ‘Net trading income’ in the consolidated income statement. 
28 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair 
value’ in the consolidated income statement. 
29 This includes interest-bearing bank deposits only.  
30 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income on financial instruments designated at fair 
value’ in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in ‘Interest expense’. 
31 This includes interest-bearing customer accounts only.  
32 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$1,161m (2010: US$902m; 2009: US$1,309m) and is excluded from the reported 
‘Net trading income’ line and included in ‘Net interest income’. However, this cost is reinstated in ‘Net trading income’ in our global 
business reporting. 
33 Net trading income includes income of US$458m (2010: income of US$23m; 2009: expense of US$444m), associated with changes in 
the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads. 
34 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in 
conjunction with HSBC’ s long-term debt issued. 
35 Discretionary participation features. 
36 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business. For 
non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims. For life 
business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent 
movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies. Consequently, 
claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth. 
 
Consolidated balance sheet  
37 Net of impairment allowances. 
38 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2008 to 2010 is on a Basel II basis. 2011 includes the 
effect of rule changes under Basel 2.5. 
39 2007 comparatives are on a Basel I basis. 
40 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 214. 
41 Includes perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 34 on the Financial Statements. 
42 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, 
divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue. 
43 ‘Currency translation’ is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the 
rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end 
44 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc. 
 
Economic profit 
45 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital. 
46 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders’ equity after: 
–  adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves (less 
goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008); 
–  deducting the average balance of HSBC’ s revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use. This reserve was generated when 
determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the 
properties are sold; 
–  deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings; and 
–  deducting average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.  
47 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 12 on the 
Financial Statements on page 335. 
Global businesses and geographical regions  
48 The main items reported under ‘Other’ are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment 
companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures, movements in the fair value of own debt 
designated at fair value (the remainder of the Group’ s gain on own debt is included in GB&M) and HSBC’ s holding company and 
financing operations. The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head 
office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres 
and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries. At 31 December 2011, there was a US$208m gain arising from the 
dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures (2010: US$188m gain; 2009: nil) and favourable fair value movements on HSBC’s 
own debt designated at fair value were US$3.9bn (2010: US$0.1bn adverse; 2009: US$6.5bn adverse).   
97 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
49 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items. These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under 
the heading ‘Intra-HSBC items’ or ‘inter-segment elimination’, as appropriate. 
50 RWAs from associates have been reallocated in order to properly align with the classification of income. RWAs from Global Asset 
Management have been reallocated to RBWM, principally from GB&M. Both items represent a reclassification from the basis used in 
HSBC’ s 2010 Pillar 3 disclosures. Comparative data have been adjusted accordingly. 
51 The movement includes the impact of the rule changes under Basel 2.5. 
52 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
53 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
54 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures. 
55 Pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets. The 2009 RoRWA is based on the 2009 period end risk-weighted assets. 
56 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets 
and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, 
and dividends received; in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated. 
57 In 2011, Global Markets included a favourable fair value movement of US$458m on the widening of credit spreads on structured 
liabilities (2010: favourable fair value movement of US$23m; 2009: adverse fair value movement of US$444m). 
58 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$5.6bn (2010: US$4.4bn; 2009: 
US$4.1bn), of which US$4.0bn was in CMB (2010: US$3.3bn; 2009: US$3.1bn) and US$1.5bn was in GB&M (2010: US$1.1bn; 2009: 
US$1.1bn). 
59 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$3.2bn (2010: US$2.7bn; 2009: US$2.2bn), of which 
US$2.6bn was in CMB relating to trade and receivables finance (2010: US$2.1bn; 2009: US$1.7bn) and US$634m was in GB&M of 
which US$601m related to trade and receivables finance (2010: US$523m; 2009: US$382m) and US$33m related to banknotes and 
other (2010: US$113m; 2009: US$125m). 
60 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local 
Asset and Liability Management Committee. Balance Sheet Management also manages the structural interest rate position of the entity 
within a Global Markets limit structure. 
61 ‘Other’ in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products. 
62 The foreign exchange effect is not eliminated on an underlying basis as the reporting currency of the principal business within GPB is 
US dollars. 
63. ‘Client assets’ are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation 
reported separately. The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the group’ s balance 
sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the group’ s balance sheet. 
64 Inter-segment elimination comprises (i) the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within ‘Other’ which are 
recovered from global businesses, and (ii) the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M. HSBC’ s 
Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses. To report GB&M’ s ‘Net 
trading income’ on a fully funded basis, ‘Net interest income’ and ‘Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities’ are grossed up to 
reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column. 
65 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
66 ‘Employee expenses’ comprises costs directly incurred by each global business. The reallocation and recharging of employee and other 
expenses directly incurred in the ‘Other’ category is shown in ‘Other operating expenses’. 
67 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 
68 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness were reclassified from RBWM to ‘Other’ at 1 January 2010. 
69 US includes the impairment of goodwill in respect of RBWM – North America.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Risk profile / Managing risk / Top and emerging risks 
 
 
98 
Risk 
Risk profile
1
 ....................................................................
98
Managing risk
1
 ................................................................
98
Top and emerging risks
1
 .................................................
99
Credit risk
3
 ......................................................................
104
Liquidity and funding
2
 ....................................................
157
Market risk
3
 ....................................................................
163
Operational risk
1
 .............................................................
170
Risk management of insurance operations
2
 ...................
171
Other material risks
1
 .......................................................
183
Appendix to Risk ............................................................
188
1  Unaudited.     2   Audited.     3  Audited where indicated. 
Risk profile 
(Unaudited)  
Managing our risk profile 
• A strong balance sheet is core to our philosophy. 
• We ensured that our portfolios remain aligned to 
our risk appetite and strategy. 
• We actively managed our risks, supported by 
strong forward looking risk identification. 
Maintaining capital strength and 
strong liquidity position 
• Our core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong at 
10.1%. 
• We have sustained our strong liquidity position 
throughout 2011. 
• The ratio of customer advances to deposits 
remains below 90%. 
Strong governance  
• Robust risk governance and accountability is 
embedded across the Group. 
• The Board, advised by the Group Risk 
Committee, approves our risk appetite. 
• A new global operating model has been 
implemented across the global Risk function. 
Our top and emerging risks 
• Macro-economic and geopolitical risk. 
• Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to 
our business model. 
• Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems. 
 
For details of HSBC’s policies and practices 
regarding risk management and governance 
see the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
Managing risk 
(Unaudited) 
The continued growth in our business in 2011 was 
achieved while ensuring risks were assumed in a 
measured manner and in line with our appetite for 
such risks. This approach is encapsulated within our 
risk appetite framework. 
Report of the Group Risk Committee  
Further commentary on risk appetite, risk governance and 
stress testing can be found within the Report of the Group Risk 
Committee, on page 233 of the Corporate Governance section. 
The diversification of our lending portfolio 
across the regions, together with our broad range of 
global businesses and products, ensured that we were 
not overly dependent on a few countries or markets 
to generate income and growth in 2011. Our 
geographical diversification also supported our 
strategies for growth in faster-growing markets and 
those with international connectivity. 
During 2011 financial markets were dominated 
by concerns over sovereign debt default risk within 
the peripheral eurozone countries and the potential 
for contagion across core European countries. 
Middle East turmoil and the perception that the 
world economic recovery remained fragile continued 
to cause concerns. Within the challenging economic 
and financial environment, we maintained our 
conservative risk profile by reducing exposure to the 
most likely areas of stress. Our top and emerging 
risk framework supports our approach to 
forward-looking risk identification and assists in 
providing focus on appropriate stress tests required 
to evaluate the potential impact of emerging 
scenarios. Where applicable and necessary, we have 
adjusted our risk appetite. 
We continued to selectively manage our exposure 
to sovereign debt, with the overall quality of the 
portfolio remaining strong. We regularly updated our 
assessment of higher risk countries and adjusted our 
risk appetite and exposures to reflect the updates. 
During 2011, credit quality improved in general 
terms and loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions declined, most notably in the US 
reflecting lower lending balances in our consumer 
finance portfolios, partly offset by increases in new 
collectively assessed loan impairment allowances in 
both Latin America and Hong Kong on the back of 
strong lending growth. On a constant currency basis, 
our loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions in 2011 were US$12.1bn, 15% lower than 
in 2010.   
99 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Capital and liquidity 
Preserving our strong capital position has long been, 
and will remain, a key priority for HSBC. We are 
well equipped to respond to the capital requirements 
imposed by Basel III, which are discussed further 
on page 212, and to sustain future growth. We utilise 
an enterprise-wide approach to testing the 
sensitivities of our capital plans against a number 
of scenarios; our approach to scenario stress testing 
analysis is discussed on page 188. 
We continue to maintain a very strong liquidity 
position and are well positioned for the emerging 
new regulatory landscape.  
Top and emerging risks 
(Unaudited) 
Details of the top and emerging risks identified 
through our risk management processes are set out 
below: 
Macro-economic and geopolitical risk 
• Eurozone – risk of sovereign default 
• Eurozone member departing from the 
currency union 
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain 
regions 
Eurozone – risk of sovereign and 
counterparty defaults  
Exposures to the eurozone have received increasing 
focus given the continued instability in the area and 
the potential for contagion from the peripheral to 
core eurozone countries.  
There is an increasing risk of sovereign defaults 
by the peripheral eurozone countries which would 
place further pressure on banks within the core 
European countries that are exposed to these 
sovereigns. Although our exposure to the peripheral 
eurozone countries is relatively limited, we are 
exposed to counterparties in the core European 
countries which could be affected by any sovereign 
crisis. Our eurozone exposures are described in more 
detail on pages 113 to 118. 
Potential impact on HSBC  
• Our exposures to European banks may come 
under stress, heightening the potential for credit 
and market risk losses, if the sovereign debt 
crisis in the region increases the need to 
recapitalise parts of the sector. 
• Trade and capital flows may contract as a result 
of banks deleveraging, protectionist measures 
being introduced in certain markets or the 
emergence of geopolitical risks, which in turn 
might curtail profitability. 
• A prolonged period of low interest rates due to 
policy actions taken to address the eurozone 
crisis will constrain, through spread 
compression and low returns on assets, the 
interest income we earn from investing our 
excess deposits. 
• In the event of contagion from stress in the 
peripheral eurozone sovereign and financial 
sectors, our ability to borrow from other 
financial institutions or to engage in funding 
transactions may be adversely affected by 
market dislocation and tightening liquidity. 
• We have actively managed the risk of sovereign 
defaults during 2011 by reducing exposures and 
other measures. 
Eurozone member departing from the 
currency union 
The risk of a eurozone member departing from the 
currency union is a plausible scenario. Should it 
materialise it would have a significant impact on the 
entire financial sector and the wider economy. It 
would crystallise sovereign risks and those to the 
bank and corporate sectors, and the disruption 
caused would affect consumer activity. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• We could incur significant losses stemming 
from the exit of one or more countries from the 
eurozone and the return to their local 
currencies.  
• In addition, should such an event happen in a 
disorderly manner, it could trigger banking 
defaults in companies with which we do 
business and have a knock-on effect on the 
global banking system. 
• In seeking to manage and mitigate this risk, we 
have prepared and tested detailed operational 
contingency plans to deal with such a scenario. 
We are keeping these plans under close review 
as events develop.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Top and emerging risks 
 
 
100 
Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions 
We are subject to geopolitical risks in the countries 
in which we operate. During 2011, these were 
particularly heightened in the Middle East and in 
certain parts of Asia. 
In the Middle East, the ‘Arab Spring’ has spread 
across the region, leading to political instability in a 
number of countries. In Asia, tensions persist in 
certain areas following leadership and regime 
changes which pose a threat of instability and 
potential conflict. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Our results are subject to the risk of loss from 
unfavourable political developments, currency 
fluctuations, social instability and changes in 
government policies on matters such as 
expropriation, authorisations, international 
ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange 
transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in 
which we operate. Actual conflict could bring 
about loss of life amongst our staff and physical 
damage to our assets. 
• We have increased our monitoring of the 
geopolitical and macro-economic outlook, in 
particular in countries where we have material 
exposures and a physical presence. Our internal 
credit risk rating of sovereign counterparties 
takes these factors into account and drives our 
appetite for conducting business in those 
countries. Where necessary, we adjust our 
country limits and exposures to reflect our 
appetite and mitigate these risks as appropriate. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks 
to our business model  
• Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
• Regulatory investigations and 
requirements relating to conduct of 
business and financial crime negatively 
affecting our results and brand 
• Dispute risk 
Financial service providers face increasingly 
stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory 
requirements, particularly in the areas of capital 
and liquidity management, conduct of business, 
operational structures and the integrity of financial 
services delivery. Increased government intervention 
and control over financial institutions, together with 
measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly 
alter the competitive landscape. These measures may 
be introduced as formal requirements in a supra-
equivalent manner and to differing timetables across 
regulatory regimes.  
Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
There are several key regulatory changes which are 
likely to have an effect on our activities. These are 
set out below: 
Basel III/CRD IV 
– Derivatives and central counterparty clearing: 
measures have been introduced to give effect to 
the G20 commitments designed to reduce 
systemic risk and volatility relating to 
derivatives trading. The G20 agreed that all 
standardised over-the-counter (‘OTC’) 
derivatives were to be exchange traded where 
appropriate, reported to trade repositories and 
centrally cleared by the end of 2012. Higher 
capital requirements under Basel III will be 
imposed for bilateral (uncleared) transactions 
to incentivise the use of clearing. 
– Quality of capital: The Capital Requirement 
Directive (‘CRD IV)’ requires a further 
strengthening and harmonisation of the criteria 
for eligibility of capital instruments with an 
emphasis on common equity as the principal 
component of tier 1 capital. 
– Capital buffers: CRD IV proposals comprise a 
capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs to 
be built up during periods of economic growth, 
aimed at ensuring the capacity to absorb losses 
in stressed periods that may span a number of 
years, and a countercyclical capital buffer of up 
to an additional 2.5% to be built up in periods in 
which credit growth exceeds GDP growth. 
– Counterparty credit risk: requirements for 
managing and capitalising counterparty credit 
risk are to be strengthened. In particular, an 
additional capital charge for potential 
losses associated with the deterioration in the 
creditworthiness of individual counterparties, 
the capital valuation adjustment, will be 
introduced. 
– Liquidity and funding: a new minimum 
standard, the liquidity coverage ratio, designed 
to improve the short-term resilience of a bank’s 
liquidity risk profile, will be introduced after 
an observation and review period in 2015. To 
promote resilience by creating incentives for 
banks to fund their activities with more stable 
sources of funding, the European Commission 
will consider proposing a net stable funding   
 
101 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
ratio after an observation and review period 
in 2018. 
In addition, the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision will monitor a 
leverage ratio based on a minimum 3% 
tier 1 capital ratio over the period beginning 
in 2013. 
UK Independent Commission on Banking: the 
forthcoming legislation in relation to the report of 
the Independent Commission on Banking (‘ICB’) is 
likely to require us to make major changes to our 
corporate structure and the business activities we 
conduct in the UK through our major banking 
subsidiary, HSBC Bank, arising from: 
– the likelihood that the retail banking activities 
currently carried out within that entity may have 
to be spun-off into a ring-fenced retail bank. 
These changes would take an extended period to 
implement with a significant effect on costs to 
both implement the changes and run the ongoing 
operations as restructured; 
– the call for banks to hold a specified level of 
primary loss-absorbing capital (‘PLAC’) up to 
20% of their respective risk-weighted loans and 
investment assets. Many of the areas which 
could affect our business are precisely those 
areas where changes to the proposals appear 
likely or where consultation is being undertaken 
by the UK government. The government 
has indicated that it may modify the 
recommendations in the report and is proposing 
to undertake extensive consultation in two 
stages during 2012; 
– introduction of a non-risk based leverage ratio, 
not as a binding prudential requirement but as 
an instrument for supervisory review (pillar 2). 
Bank levy: legislation in respect of the UK bank 
levy was enacted on 19 July 2011. A charge of 
US$570m for the UK bank levy has been recognised 
in operating expenses in 2011. The UK levy is based 
on the consolidated balance sheet at the year-end. 
Bank levies have also been introduced, most notably 
in France, Germany and South Korea. The overall 
cost in 2011 was US$587m.  
The ‘Volcker Rule’: while we do not have 
segregated proprietary trading desks, the so called 
Volcker Rule proposed under the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act (the 
‘Dodd-Frank Act’) could affect HSBC in North 
America and across the Group. On 11 October 2011, 
a proposed rule was published which generated 
extensive public comment. A number of foreign 
governments and other bodies have made public 
submissions to the US authorities on, inter alia, the 
overall scope and extra-territorial effects of the 
proposed rule. However, rulemaking to implement 
the provisions of the Volcker Rule has not been 
completed. 
G-SIBs: the capital impact of being designated a 
G-SIB is discussed on page 213. 
Potential impact on HSBC  
• The proposals relating to capital and liquidity 
will affect the capital adequacy and liquidity 
frameworks under which financial institutions 
operate and result in increased capital and 
liquidity requirements, although the nature, 
timing and effect of many of the changes remain 
unclear. Increases in capital and liquidity 
requirements could have a material effect on our 
future financial condition or the results of our 
operations. There is also the risk of second and 
third order impacts of regulation which could 
constrain the flow of credit within the economy. 
• The proposed leverage ratio could cause HSBC, 
as an institution with a relatively low-risk 
portfolio overall, to constrain business activity 
in areas which are well collateralised or possess 
sufficient risk mitigants.  
• For a further description of the possible effects 
of the new Basel III/CRD IV rules on HSBC see 
page 213. If either the quality or amount of the 
Group’s capital were to fall outside the proposed 
regulations, we could be required to raise more 
capital or reduce our level of RWAs to meet the 
requirements. Such actions and any resulting 
transactions may not be within our operating 
plans and may not be conducted on the most 
favourable terms. This could lead to lower 
returns on equity and cause some business 
activities and products to be less profitable and, 
in some instances, to fail to cover their cost of 
equity.  
• The proposed changes relating to remuneration, 
bank levies and other taxes could increase the 
Group’s cost of doing business in the regulatory 
regimes in which these changes are 
implemented, reducing future profitability. 
Proposed changes in regulations such as the 
rules relating to derivatives and central 
counterparties regulation, the UK ICB ring-
fencing proposals, recovery and resolution plans 
and the Volcker Rule may affect the manner in 
which we conduct our activities and structure 
ourselves, with the potential to both increase the 
costs of doing business and curtail the types of 
business we can carry out, with the risk of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Top and emerging risks 
 
 
102 
decreased profitability as a result. Due to the 
stage of development and implementation of 
these various regulations, it is not possible to 
estimate the effect, if any, on our operations. 
• We are closely engaged with the governments 
and regulators in the countries in which we 
operate to help ensure that the new requirements 
are properly thought through and understood so 
that they can be implemented in an effective 
manner. We are also ensuring that our capital 
and liquidity plans take into account the 
potential effects of the changes. Capital 
allocation and liquidity management disciplines 
have been expanded to incorporate future 
increased capital and liquidity requirements and 
drive appropriate risk management and 
mitigating actions. 
Regulatory investigations and requirements 
relating to conduct of business and financial 
crime negatively affecting our results and 
brand 
Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory 
sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and 
financial crime. The incidence of regulatory 
proceedings and other adversarial proceedings 
against financial service firms is increasing.  
Potential impact on HSBC 
• We are subject to a number of regulatory actions 
and investigations. See Note 44 on the Financial 
Statements. It is inherently difficult to predict 
the outcome of the regulatory proceedings 
involving our businesses. An adverse outcome 
could have a material adverse effect on our 
results and brand. 
• In response to this risk, we are progressing a 
number of initiatives which seek to address the 
issues identified and enhance our governance 
and oversight. 
Dispute risk 
The current economic environment has increased our 
exposure to actual and potential litigation against the 
Group. Further details are discussed in Note 44 on 
the Financial Statements. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss 
and significant reputational damage which could 
adversely affect customer and investor confidence. 
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in 
a downturn 
• Internet crime and fraud 
• Social media risk 
• Level of change creating operational 
complexity and heightened operational 
risk 
• Information security risk 
Challenges to achieving our strategy in a 
downturn 
The external environment remains challenging 
and the structural changes which the financial 
sector is going through are creating obstacles to 
the achievement of strategic objectives. This, 
combined with the prolonged global macroeconomic 
slowdown, could affect the achievement of our 
strategic targets for the Group as a whole and our 
global businesses. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• The downturn may put pressure on our ability to 
earn returns on equity in excess of our cost of 
equity while operating within the overall 
parameters of our risk appetite.  
• Through our strategic initiatives, which have 
heightened the focus on capital allocation and 
cost efficiency, we are actively seeking to 
manage and mitigate this risk. 
Internet crime and fraud 
We are exposed to potentially fraudulent and 
criminal activities, in particular from a growing 
threat from internet crime which could result in the 
loss of customer data and sensitive information. 
The threat of external fraud may increase during 
adverse economic conditions, especially in retail 
and commercial banking. 
We also face breakdowns in processes or 
procedures and systems failure or unavailability 
and are subject to the risk of disruption to our 
business arising from events that are wholly or 
partially beyond our control, such as internet 
crime and acts of terrorism.   
 
103 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses 
in service to customers and/or economic loss to 
HSBC. These risks equally apply when we rely 
on external suppliers or vendors to provide 
services to us and our customers.  
• We have increased our monitoring and have 
implemented additional controls such as two-
factor authentication to mitigate the possibility 
of losses from these risks. 
Social media risk 
The scale and profile of social media networks 
(‘SMNs’) have grown both in terms of customer 
demographic and geographical reach to represent 
a significant potential reputational risk to our 
organisation, given that these networks can be used 
as powerful broadcasting tools with the capability to 
reach large numbers of people in a very short time 
frame. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• SMNs can be used to exacerbate the effect of 
customer complaints and service failures, and 
provide a means for employees to publicise 
confidential information. SMNs present 
significant risks to our reputation and brand. 
• In order to reduce our exposure to these risks, 
an HSBC presence has been created in several 
of the larger SMNs in order to provide an 
official point of contact for our customers 
and stakeholders. Monitoring has also been 
implemented in some entities to protect our 
brand and identity and to understand general 
sentiment towards us and, in some cases, our 
specific products and initiatives. 
Level of change creating operational 
complexity and heightened operational risk 
There are many drivers of change across HSBC and 
the banking industry including change driven by new 
banking regulation, the increased globalisation of the 
economy and business needs, new products and 
delivery channels, and organisational change. 
Operational complexity has the potential to 
heighten all types of operational risk across our 
activities. This includes the risk of process errors, 
systems failures and fraud. It can also increase 
operational costs. 
The implementation of our strategy, based 
on the application of our five filters methodology 
(see page 11), may involve the withdrawal from 
certain markets, which presents disposal risks which 
must be carefully managed. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Critical systems failure and a prolonged loss of 
service availability could cause serious damage 
to our ability to serve our clients, breach 
regulations under which we operate and cause 
long-term damage to our business, reputation 
and brand. We seek to ensure that our critical 
systems infrastructure is constantly monitored 
and properly resourced to mitigate against 
systems failures. 
• The potential effects of disposal risks include 
regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of 
key personnel and interruption to systems and 
processes during business transformation, and 
they can have both financial and reputational 
implications. Management actions to manage 
these risks proactively include a close dialogue 
with regulators and customers and the 
involvement of HR, legal, compliance and other 
functional experts. 
Information security risk 
The reliability and security of our information and 
technology infrastructure and customer databases 
and their ability to combat internet fraud are crucial 
to maintaining our banking applications and 
processes and to protecting the HSBC brand.  
Potential impact on HSBC 
• These risks give rise to potential financial loss 
and reputational damage which could adversely 
affect customer and investor confidence. Loss of 
customer data would also result in regulatory 
breaches which would result in fines and 
penalties being incurred. 
• We have invested significantly in addressing 
this risk through increased training to raise staff 
awareness of the requirements, enhanced 
controls around data access and heightened 
monitoring of information flows.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure 
 
 
104 
Credit risk 
Credit risk in 2011 .......................................................... 104
Credit exposure ............................................................... 105
Areas of special interest .................................................. 112
Wholesale lending ...................................................... 112
Personal lending ........................................................ 119
US personal lending ................................................... 124
Credit quality of financial instruments ........................... 126
Past due but not impaired gross financial  
instruments ............................................................. 128
Renegotiated loans and forbearance ......................... 129
Impaired loans disclosure .......................................... 133
Impairment of loans and advances ................................. 134
Collateral ......................................................................... 144
Securitisation exposures and other structured products ... 149
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a 
customer or counterparty fails to meet a 
payment obligation under a contract. It 
arises principally from direct lending, trade 
finance and leasing business, but also from 
off-balance sheet products such as 
guarantees and derivatives, and from the 
Group’s holdings of debt and other securities. 
Credit risk generates the largest regulatory 
capital requirement of the risks we incur. 
 
• Total gross loans and advances 
decreased by 2% to US$1,139bn 
reflecting the reclassification of assets to 
held for sale. 
• Balance sheet exposure to the sovereign 
and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn 
at 31 December 2011. 
 
We have amended our presentation of impaired loans 
as described on page 133. Other than that, there were 
no material changes to our policies and practices for 
the management of credit risk in 2011.  
 
 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding credit risk is provided in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
 
Credit risk in 2011 
(Unaudited) 
Exposure, impairment allowances and charges 
(Audited) 
  2011   2010 
  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December    
Total gross loans and advances (A) .. 1,139.1   1,186.9 
Impairment allowances ................... 17.6   20.2 
– as a percentage of A ................ 1.55%   1.70% 
Year ended 31 December    
Impairment charges
1
 ....................... 11.5  13.5 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions 
(Audited) 
  2011   2010 
  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December .............................. 12,127   14,039 
  %   % 
Personal ........................................... 77  80 
Corporate and commercial .............. 17  16 
Financial .......................................... 1  1 
Impairment of available-for-sale 
debt securities ............................. 5  3 
of which: Greek Government...... 2  – 
100 100 
In 2011, loans and advances to customers continued 
to represent the Group’s most significant exposure to 
credit risk. At 31 December 2011, total gross loans 
and advances were US$1,139bn, a decrease of 2% 
on a constant currency basis compared with 
31 December 2010. The decline reflected the 
reclassification to assets held for sale of balances 
relating to the pending sale of our US Card and 
Retail Services business and 195 branches in upstate 
New York. For further detail on assets held for sale 
see page 105. 
During 2011, we reduced our exposure to 
sovereigns and banks in the peripheral European 
countries. We also reduced our exposure to risk from 
sovereign and financial institution counterparty 
positions across the broader eurozone and from 
specific financial institutions in other countries. At 
31 December 2011, our on-balance sheet exposure to 
the sovereign and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn. In 2011, we 
recognised an impairment charge of US$212m in 
respect of Greek sovereign and agency exposures 
classified as available for sale. Our sovereign 
exposures to Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain are 
not considered to be impaired at 31 December 2011.  
105 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
On a constant currency basis, our personal 
lending book was US$394bn, 6% lower than at 
31 December 2010 following the reclassification 
referred to above. Excluding the reclassification, 
total personal lending grew, primarily in the UK due 
to growth in mortgage balances, driven by successful 
marketing campaigns, and also in Hong Kong, as we 
continued to provide competitive mortgage products 
for our customers, partly offset by the continued run-
off of the CML portfolio in the US. 
At US$279bn, residential mortgage lending 
continued to comprise the Group’s largest 
concentration in a single exposure type at 
31 December 2011. The Group’s most significant 
exposure to mortgage lending was in the UK, the US 
and Hong Kong. Our UK mortgage portfolio 
remained of high quality with an average loan to 
value (‘LTV’) ratio for new business of 53%, while 
in Hong Kong the average LTV ratio on new 
mortgage originations was 49%. The average LTV 
ratio of our mortgage books in the UK and Hong 
Kong remained low at 52% and 37%, respectively. 
The Group’s exposure to personal lending in 
the US remained significant. At 31 December 2011, 
total personal lending balances were US$67bn, a 
decline of 39% compared with 31 December 2010, 
largely due to the reclassification of certain lending 
balances to held for sale. In 2011, we continued to 
make progress in running off the CML portfolio as 
balances declined by 15% to US$49.5bn. The rate at 
which balances declined during 2011 was slowed by 
the industry-wide examination of foreclosure 
practices.  
In dollar terms, lending balances that were two 
months or more delinquent in the CML portfolio 
decreased modestly in 2011 reflecting the continued 
run-off, partly offset by the temporary suspension of 
foreclosure activities. In our held-for-sale Card 
and Retail Services portfolio, two months or more 
delinquency rates improved as the credit quality of 
the overall portfolio improved. 
In 2011, we conducted a review of loan 
portfolios with significant levels of forbearance. 
The review resulted in no significant change in our 
loan impairment allowances, though we amended 
our presentation of impaired loans to provide more 
relevant information on the effects of forbearance 
on the credit risk of loans and advances (see 
page 133). Our balance of impaired loans increased 
significantly under the revised presentation, reducing 
the ratio of total impairment allowances to impaired 
loans. On a restated basis, this ratio was 42.3% 
(2010: 43% instead of 71.6% under the previous 
presentation). 
Reclassification to assets held for sale 
During 2011, the decline in gross loans and advances 
was partly due to a reclassification of certain lending 
balances to assets held for sale. Disclosures relating 
to assets held for sale are provided in certain credit 
risk management tables, primarily where the 
disclosure is relevant to the measurement of these 
financial assets, as follows: 
• Maximum exposure to credit risk (page 107); 
• Distribution of financial instruments by credit 
quality (page 127); and 
• Ageing analysis of days past due but not 
impaired gross financial instruments (page 129). 
Although gross loans and advances and related 
impairment allowances are reclassified from ‘Loans 
and advances to customers’ and ‘Loans and 
advances to banks’ in the balance sheet, there is no 
equivalent income statement reclassification. As a 
result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in 
the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment 
charges relating to financial assets classified as 
assets held for sale.  
The table below presents ‘Loans and advances 
to customers’ and ‘Loans and advances to banks’ as 
reported, and those classified as held for sale:  
Reported and held-for-sale loans 
 At 31 December 2011 
 
 Total gross 
 loans and 
 advances  
 Impairment
  allowances
 on loans and
 advances 
 US$m  US$m 
As reported ................................. 1,139,052  17,636 
Assets held for sale .................... 37,273  1,614 
Total reported and held for sale . 1,176,325  19,250 
2010 comparative data have not been separately 
presented for the credit risk management disclosures 
as the amounts are insignificant.  
Credit exposure 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
Our credit exposure is spread across a broad range 
of asset classes, including derivatives, trading assets, 
loans and advances to customers, loans and advances 
to banks and financial investments.  
In 2011, our exposure to credit risk remained 
well diversified across asset classes. During the year, 
we reduced our exposure to the peripheral eurozone 
countries and to countries across the broader 
European economic area, in particular by  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure  
 
 
106 
transferring our excess liquidity away from 
sovereign and bank-issued debt securities and from 
money market placements with banks to placements 
with central banks in the most highly-rated countries. 
Despite this, we increased our overall exposure to 
credit risk in 2011. 
The ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table (page 107) 
presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from balance 
sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments before 
taking account of any collateral held or other credit 
enhancements (unless such enhancements meet accounting 
offsetting requirements). For financial assets recognised on 
the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals 
their carrying amount; for financial guarantees and similar 
contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would 
have to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan 
commitments and other credit-related commitments that are 
irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is 
generally the full amount of the committed facilities. 
Loans and advances to customers represent our 
largest exposure to credit risk; however, this balance 
reduced at the end of 2011, compared with the end 
of 2010 as certain lending balances were reclassified 
as ‘Assets held for sale’. We were able to 
successfully grow our residential mortgage 
portfolios in many other markets, notably in Hong 
Kong and the UK where credit quality remained 
high and LTV ratios were low.  
Our exposure to loans and advances to banks 
decreased in 2011, mainly in Europe as funds from 
maturing term loans and reverse repo balances were 
redeployed to ‘Cash and balances at central banks’. 
This was offset in part by higher central bank 
lending in Rest of Asia-Pacific, reflecting strong 
deposit growth in the region. Our net exposure to 
loans and advances to banks also decreased.  
The loans and advances offset adjustment 
primarily relates to customer loans and deposits 
and balances arising from repo and reverse repo 
transactions. The offset relates to balances where 
there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the 
event of counterparty default and where, as a result, 
there is a net exposure for credit risk management 
purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle 
these balances on a net basis under normal 
circumstances, they do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes. 
We increased our exposure to cash and balances 
at central banks in 2011, as discussed above, 
reflecting the placement of excess liquidity with 
central banks in Europe and North America. 
Our exposure to derivatives increased in 2011, 
mainly in Europe reflecting an increase in the fair 
value of interest rate contracts. This was 
compounded by an increase in the notional value of 
outstanding contracts, partly offset by higher netting 
which rose in line with the increase in fair values. 
Despite the increase in maximum exposure, our net 
exposure to derivatives in 2011 decreased due to a 
rise in the derivative offset.  
The derivative offset amount in the table on 
page 107 relates to exposures where the counterparty 
has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a 
master netting arrangement is in place and the credit 
risk exposure is managed on a net basis or the 
position is specifically collateralised, normally in the 
form of cash. At 31 December 2011, the total amount 
of such offsets was US$306bn (2010: US$198bn), of 
which US$272bn (2010: US$178bn) were offsets 
under a master netting arrangement, US$33.0bn 
(2010: US$19.1bn) were collateral received in 
cash and US$0.7bn (2010: US$0.2bn) were other 
collateral. These amounts do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes as settlement 
may not actually be made on a net basis. 
During 2011, we decreased our exposure to 
trading assets. This reflected a reduction in our 
holdings of government and highly-rated corporate 
debt securities and equity positions, notably in 
Europe. In addition, our reverse repo exposure 
declined in North America as we did not replace 
maturities. 
In 2011, our loss experience continued to be 
dominated by the personal lending portfolios, with 
some 77% of our loan impairment charges related to 
this lending category of which 56% was related to 
US personal lending. This compared with 80% in 
2010, of which 57% was related to US personal 
lending. 
While not considered as offset in the table 
below, other arrangements including short positions 
in securities and financial assets held as part of 
linked insurance/investment contracts where the risk 
is predominately borne by the policyholder, reduce 
our maximum exposure to credit risk. In addition, 
we hold collateral in respect of individual loans and 
advances (see page 144).   
 
107 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Maximum
 exposure  Offset 
 Exposure 
 to credit
 risk (net) 
 Maximum 
 exposure   Offset  
 Exposure 
 to credit 
 risk (net) 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Cash and balances at central banks ...................... 129,902 – 129,902 57,383  – 57,383 
Items in the course of collection from other  
banks ................................................................. 8,208 – 8,208 6,072  – 6,072 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness ..................................................... 20,922 – 20,922 19,057  – 19,057 
Trading assets ....................................................... 309,449 (4,656) 304,793 343,966  (4,189) 339,777 
Treasury and other eligible bills ....................... 34,309 – 34,309 25,620  – 25,620 
Debt securities .................................................. 130,487 – 130,487 168,268  – 168,268 
Loans and advances to banks ........................... 75,525 – 75,525 70,456  – 70,456 
Loans and advances to customers .................... 69,128 (4,656) 64,472 79,622  (4,189) 75,433 
Financial assets designated at fair value .............. 12,926 – 12,926 19,593  – 19,593 
Treasury and other eligible bills ....................... 123 – 123 159  – 159 
Debt securities .................................................. 11,834 – 11,834 18,248  – 18,248 
Loans and advances to banks ........................... 119 – 119 315  – 315 
Loans and advances to customers .................... 850 – 850 871  – 871 
Derivatives ............................................................ 346,379 (305,616) 40,763 260,757  (197,501) 63,256 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost .......... 1,121,416 (87,978) 1,033,438 1,166,637  (91,966) 1,074,671 
– to banks .......................................................... 180,987 (3,066) 177,921 208,271  (3,099) 205,172 
– to customers ................................................... 940,429 (84,912) 855,517 958,366  (88,867) 869,499 
Financial investments ........................................... 392,834 – 392,834 392,772  – 392,772 
Treasury and other similar bills ........................ 65,223 – 65,223 57,129  – 57,129 
Debt securities .................................................. 327,611 – 327,611 335,643  – 335,643 
Assets held for sale
2
 .............................................. 37,808 (204) 37,604 – – – 
– disposal groups .............................................. 37,746 (204) 37,542 – – –
– non-current assets held for sale ..................... 62 – 62 – – –
Other assets ........................................................... 32,992 – 32,992 30,371 (29) 30,342 
Endorsements and acceptances ........................ 11,010 – 11,010 10,116  (29) 10,087 
Other ................................................................. 21,982 – 21,982 20,255  – 20,255
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .......... 39,324 – 39,324 49,436  – 49,436 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
3
 ....... 654,904 – 654,904 602,513  – 602,513 
 3,107,064 (398,454) 2,708,610 2,948,557  (293,685) 2,654,872 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure  
 
 
108 
Concentration of exposure 
 
Concentrations of credit risk are described in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
Securities held for trading 
(Unaudited) 
Total securities held for trading within trading 
assets were US$186bn at 31 December 2011 (2010: 
US$235bn). The largest concentration of these assets 
was to government and government agency debt 
securities. A detailed analysis of securities held for 
trading is provided in Note 15 on the Financial 
Statements and an analysis of credit quality on 
page 127. 
Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills 
(Unaudited) 
Our holdings of corporate debt, ABSs and other 
securities were spread across a wide range of issuers 
and geographical regions, with 17% invested in 
securities issued by banks and other financial 
institutions. A detailed analysis of financial 
investments is provided in Note 21 on the Financial 
Statements and an analysis by credit quality on 
page 127. 
At 31 December 2011, our insurance businesses 
held diversified portfolios of debt and equity 
securities designated at fair value of US$28.9bn 
(2010: US$28.3bn) and debt securities classified as 
financial investments of US$40.1bn (2010: 
US$38.5bn). For an analysis of securities held by the 
insurance businesses, see page 178. 
Derivatives 
(Unaudited) 
Derivative assets were US$346bn at 31 December 
2011 (2010: US$261bn), of which the largest 
concentrations were interest rate and foreign 
exchange derivatives. For an analysis of derivatives, 
see Note 20 on the Financial Statements. 
Loans and advances 
(Unaudited) 
On a reported basis, gross loans and advances 
to customers (excluding the financial sector) at 
31 December 2011were US$872bn, a decrease of 
US$5.0bn or 1% from 31 December 2010.  
Summary of gross loans and advances to customers 
(Unaudited) 
425
446
102
6 5
86
473
394
0
100
200
300
400
500
Personal Corporate and
commercial
Financial ABSs
reclassified
2011 2010
(US$bn)
Reported basis
 
The following commentary is on a constant currency 
basis: 
Personal lending balances of US$394bn in 2011 
were 6% lower than at 31 December 2010 following 
the reclassification of balances to held for sale, and 
the continued run-off of the CML portfolio, partly 
offset by growth in residential mortgage lending in 
the UK and Hong Kong. For more information on 
Personal lending, see ‘Areas of special interest – 
personal lending’ on page 119. 
Corporate and commercial lending was 49% of 
gross lending to customers at 31 December 
2011, representing our largest lending category. 
International trade and services was the biggest 
portion of this category, increasing by 6% compared 
with 31 December 2010 following economic growth, 
particularly in Asia. Commercial real estate lending, 
which represented 8% of total gross lending to 
customers, increased by 4% in 2011, as the demand 
for funds in property investment and development 
remained strong in Hong Kong and certain countries 
in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region. 
In the financial category, our largest exposure 
was to non-bank financial institutions which 
decreased by 13% to US$85.3bn; this was mainly 
in North America and related to lower reverse repos 
as we increased our placements of excess liquidity 
with central banks.  
Loans and advances to banks were widely 
distributed across many countries in 2011 and 
decreased by 11% as funds from maturing term loans 
and reverse repo balances were redeployed into 
central banks, mainly in Europe. 
The following tables analyse loans by industry 
sector and by the location of the principal operations 
of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the 
operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East 
and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending 
branch.   
 
109 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Gross loans and advances by industry sector 
(Audited) 
 2011 
 Currency 
 effect 
 Move-
 ment 2010 2009 2008 2007 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Personal ................................................. 393,625 (4,735) (26,960) 425,320 434,206  440,227  500,834 
Residential mortgages
4
 ..................... 278,963 (1,825) 12,107 268,681 260,669   243,337  269,068
Other personal
5
 ................................. 114,662 (2,910) (39,067) 156,639 173,537   196,890  231,766
Corporate and commercial ................... 472,816 (6,329) 33,633 445,512 383,090  407,474  400,771 
Manufacturing
6
 ................................. 96,054 (1,765) 6,698 91,121 80,487  81,103 72,895
International trade and services
6
 ...... 152,709 (2,074) 8,210 146,573 115,641  128,737 129,143
Commercial real estate ..................... 73,941 (598) 2,659 71,880 69,389   70,969 72,345
Other property-related ...................... 39,539 (245) 4,946 34,838 30,520   30,739  33,907
Government ...................................... 11,079 (258) 2,743 8,594 6,689   6,544  5,708
Other commercial
7
 ............................ 99,494 (1,389) 8,377 92,506 80,364   89,382  86,773
Financial ............................................... 86,219 (1,874) (13,632) 101,725 96,650  101,085  99,148 
Non-bank financial institutions ........ 85,275 (1,818) (13,070) 100,163 95,237   99,536  96,781
Settlement accounts .......................... 944 (56) (562) 1,562 1,413   1,549  2,367
Asset-backed securities reclassified ..... 5,280 (14) (598) 5,892 7,827  7,991 – 
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers(‘TGLAC’) ....................... 957,940 (12,952) (7,557) 978,449 921,773  956,777  1,000,753 
Gross loans and advances to banks ...... 181,112 (5,669) (21,648) 208,429 179,888  153,829  237,373 
Total gross loans and advances ............ 1,139,052 (18,621) (29,205) 1,186,878 1,101,661  1,110,606  1,238,126 
Impaired loans and advances to 
customers
8
..................................... 41,584 (575) (4,712) 46,871 30,606 25,352 19,582 
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ..........  4.3%    4.8%  3.3%   2.6%   2.0% 
Impairment allowances on loans and  
advances to customers ...................... 17,511 (396) (2,176) 20,083 25,542 23,909 19,205 
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ..........  1.8%    2.1%  2.8%   2.5%   1.9% 
Charge for impairment losses ............... 11,505 185 (2,228) 13,548 24,942 24,131 17,177 
New allowances net of allowance 
releases ......................................... 12,931 210 (1,847) 14,568 25,832  24,965 18,182
Recoveries ........................................ (1,426) (25) (381) (1,020) (890)  (834) (1,005)
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Movements in the above table attributed to the 
reclassification of certain loans and advances to held 
for sale were: US$33.2bn of other personal lending, 
US$1.3bn of residential mortgages, US$1.3bn of  
manufacturing international trade and services, and 
US$0.4bn of commercial real estate, US$0.5bn of 
loans and advances to banks and US$0.6bn related to 
other industry sectors.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure  
 
 
110 
Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Audited) 
  Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America   Total 
 As a %
 of total
 gross 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   loans 
At 31 December 2011            
Personal ................................................ 166,147 63,181 43,580 5,269 95,336 20,112 393,625  41.1 
Residential mortgages
4
..................... 119,902 46,817 32,136 1,837 73,278 4,993 278,963  29.1
Other personal
5
 ................................ 46,245 16,364 11,444 3,432 22,058 15,119 114,662  12.0
Corporate and commercial .................. 204,984 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,271 35,930 472,816  49.3 
Manufacturing
6
 ................................ 45,632 9,004 16,909 3,517 7,888 13,104 96,054  10.0
International trade and services
6
 ..... 64,604 29,066 29,605 8,664 10,710 10,060 152,709  15.9
Commercial real estate .................... 32,099 20,828 9,537 1,002 7,069 3,406 73,941  7.7
Other property-related ..................... 7,595 17,367 6,396 1,770 5,729 682 39,539  4.1
Government ..................................... 3,143 2,918 962 1,563 656 1,837 11,079  1.2
Other commercial
7
 ........................... 51,911 12,409 14,478 4,636 9,219 6,841 99,494  10.4
Financial .............................................. 63,671 3,473 3,183 1,168 12,817 1,907 86,219  9.0 
Non-bank financial institutions ....... 63,313 3,192 2,937 1,162 12,817 1,854 85,275  8.9
Settlement accounts ......................... 358 281 246 6 – 53 944  0.1
Asset-backed securities reclassified .... 4,776 – – – 504 – 5,280  0.6 
TGLAC ................................................ 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940  100.0 
Percentage of TGLAC by  
geographical region .........................  45.9%   16.5%  13.0%  2.9%  15.7%  6.0%   100.0%   
Impaired loans
8
 .................................... 11,751 604 1,069 2,425 22,696 3,039 41,584  
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ...........  2.7%   0.4%  0.9%  8.8%  15.1%  5.2%   4.3%  
Total impairment allowances .............. 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511  
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ...........  1.2%   0.4%  0.6%  6.2%  4.8%  3.5%   1.8%  
           
At 31 December 2010           
Personal ................................................ 161,717  57,308 40,184 5,371 139,117 21,623  425,320   43.4 
Residential mortgages
4
 .................... 111,618  42,488 28,724 1,751 78,842 5,258  268,681   27.4 
Other personal
5
 ................................ 50,099  14,820 11,460 3,620 60,275 16,365  156,639   16.0 
Corporate and commercial .................. 203,804  80,823 67,247 19,560 38,707 35,371  445,512   45.6 
Manufacturing
6
 ................................ 46,890 8,171 15,050 3,074 5,748 12,188 91,121  9.3
International trade and services
6
 ..... 65,090 25,280 26,224 8,099 10,989 10,891 146,573  15.0
Commercial real estate .................... 30,629  19,678 8,732 1,085 8,768 2,988  71,880   7.3 
Other property-related ..................... 6,401  15,232 5,426 1,785 5,109 885  34,838   3.6 
Government ..................................... 2,289  2,339 415 1,345 89 2,117  8,594   0.9 
Other commercial
7
 ........................... 52,505  10,123 11,400 4,172 8,004 6,302  92,506   9.5 
Financial .............................................. 70,725  3,189 2,259 1,347 21,202 3,003  101,725   10.4 
Non-bank financial institutions ....... 70,019  2,824 2,058 1,335 21,109 2,818  100,163   10.2 
Settlement accounts ......................... 706  365 201 12 93 185  1,562   0.2 
Asset-backed securities reclassified .... 5,216 – – – 676 – 5,892  0.6 
TGLAC ................................................ 441,462  141,320 109,690 26,278 199,702 59,997  978,449   100.0 
Percentage of TGLAC by  
geographical region .........................  45.2%   14.4%  11.2%  2.7%  20.4%  6.1%   100.0%   
Impaired loans
8
 .................................... 11,394 660 1,324 2,529 27,840 3,124 46,871  
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ...........  2.6%   0.5%  1.2%  9.6%  13.9%  5.2%   4.8%  
Total impairment allowances .............. 5,663  629 959 1,652 9,170 2,010  20,083   
–  as a percentage of TGLAC ...........  1.3%   0.4%  0.9%  6.3%  4.6%  3.4%   2.1%  
For footnotes, see page 185.   
111 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Loans and advances to banks by geographical region 
(Audited) 
  Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  
Loans and
 advances
 to banks 
 Impair-
 ment
 allowances 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011
9
 ..................... 54,406  35,159 47,309 8,571 14,831 20,836  181,112   (125)
At 31 December 2010
10
 ..................... 78,239 33,585 40,437 9,335 19,479 27,354 208,429  (158)
At 31 December 2009 ........................ 65,614 36,197 35,648 8,435 15,386 18,608 179,888  (107)
At 31 December 2008 ........................ 62,012 29,646 28,665 7,476 11,458 14,572 153,829 (63)
At 31 December 2007 ........................ 104,534  63,737 32,373 7,488 16,566 12,675  237,373  (7)
For footnote, see page 185. 
Gross loans and advances to customers by country 
(Audited) 
  
 Residential
 mortgages
 US$m 
 
 Other
 personal
 US$m 
 
 Property-
 related
 US$m 
 Commercial, 
 international 
trade and other 
 US$m 
  
 
 Total
 US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Europe ............................................................. 119,902 46,245 39,694 233,737  439,578 
UK .................................................................... 111,224 22,218 29,191 160,236  322,869 
France .............................................................. 3,353 9,305 8,160 49,572  70,390 
Germany .......................................................... 10 343 112 4,518  4,983 
Malta ................................................................ 1,708 567 520 1,591  4,386 
Switzerland ...................................................... 1,803 10,684 156 1,918  14,561 
Turkey .............................................................. 767 2,797 255 3,652  7,471 
Other ................................................................ 1,037 331 1,300 12,250  14,918 
Hong Kong ...................................................... 46,817 16,364 38,195 56,870  158,246 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ........................................ 32,136 11,444 15,933 65,137  124,650 
Australia ........................................................... 9,251 1,327 2,357 6,073  19,008 
India ................................................................. 830 461 809 3,914  6,014 
Indonesia .......................................................... 81 463 97 4,577  5,218 
Mainland China ............................................... 2,769 317 5,078 15,665  23,829 
Malaysia ........................................................... 4,329 2,166 1,351 5,898  13,744 
Singapore ......................................................... 7,919 4,108 3,690 9,433  25,150 
Taiwan ............................................................. 3,062 550 139 4,555  8,306 
Vietnam ............................................................ 42 184 42 1,397  1,665 
Other ................................................................ 3,853 1,868 2,370 13,625  21,716 
Middle East and North Africa  
(excluding Saudi Arabia) ............................ 1,837 3,432 2,772 19,548  27,589 
Egypt ................................................................ 2 441 100 2,775  3,318 
Qatar ................................................................ 9 445 354 1,098  1,906 
UAE ................................................................. 1,520 1,882 1,464 12,070  16,936 
Other ................................................................ 306 664 854 3,605  5,429 
North America ............................................... 73,278 22,058 12,798 41,794  149,928 
US .................................................................... 52,484 14,087 7,850 27,307  101,728 
Canada ............................................................. 19,045 7,518 4,391 13,600  44,554 
Bermuda ........................................................... 1,749 453 557 887  3,646 
Latin America ................................................ 4,993 15,119 4,088 33,749  57,949 
Argentina ......................................................... 32 1,379 114 2,331  3,856 
Brazil ................................................................ 1,657 9,802 1,660 18,638  31,757 
Mexico ............................................................. 1,847 2,261 1,284 8,210  13,602 
Panama ............................................................. 1,240 1,014 923 2,537  5,714 
Other ................................................................ 217 663 107 2,033  3,020 
Total ................................................................. 278,963 114,662 113,480 450,835  957,940 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure / Areas of special interest > Wholesale lending 
 
 
112 
Gross loans and advances to customers by country (continued) 
  
 Residential
 mortgages
 US$m 
 
 Other
 personal
 US$m 
 
 Property-
 related
 US$m 
 Commercial, 
 international 
 trade and other 
 US$m 
  
 
 Total
 US$m 
At 31 December 2010       
Europe .............................................................. 111,618 50,099 37,030 242,715  441,462 
UK .................................................................... 103,037 25,636 26,002 165,283  319,958 
France .............................................................. 3,749 9,550 8,737 56,613  78,649 
Germany .......................................................... 11 356 79 4,015  4,461 
Malta ................................................................ 1,656 599 563 1,643  4,461 
Switzerland ...................................................... 1,358 10,708 114 1,837  14,017 
Turkey .............................................................. 809 2,817 210 2,783  6,619 
Other ................................................................ 998 433 1,325 10,541  13,297 
Hong Kong ...................................................... 42,488 14,820 34,910 49,102  141,320 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ......................................... 28,724 11,460 14,158 55,348 109,690 
Australia ........................................................... 8,405 1,267 2,346 4,867 16,885
India ................................................................. 920 526 680 4,583 6,709
Indonesia .......................................................... 74 531 115 3,374 4,094
Mainland China ............................................... 2,046 310 3,836 12,932 19,124
Malaysia ........................................................... 3,833 2,053 1,361 4,845 12,092
Singapore ......................................................... 6,571 3,661 3,262 7,846 21,340
Taiwan ............................................................. 3,002 527 135 2,832 6,496
Vietnam ............................................................ 35 162 59 1,255 1,511
Other ................................................................ 3,838 2,423 2,364 12,814 21,439
Middle East and North Africa 
(excluding Saudi Arabia) ............................ 1,751 3,620 2,870 18,037  26,278 
Egypt ................................................................ 3 396 111 2,484  2,994 
Qatar ................................................................ 8 491 404 918  1,821 
UAE ................................................................. 1,477 2,099 1,359 11,043  15,978 
Other ................................................................ 263 634 996 3,592  5,485 
North America ................................................. 78,842 60,275 13,877 46,708  199,702 
US .................................................................... 57,630 51,686 8,269 31,496  149,081 
Canada ............................................................. 19,505 8,070 5,079 14,711  47,365 
Bermuda ........................................................... 1,707 519 529 501  3,256 
Latin America .................................................. 5,258 16,365 3,873 34,501  59,997 
Argentina ......................................................... 30 918 103 2,172  3,223 
Brazil ................................................................ 1,111 10,979 1,816 17,093  30,999 
Mexico ............................................................. 2,097 2,365 1,146 8,622  14,230 
Panama ............................................................. 1,155 982 489 3,794  6,420 
Other ................................................................ 865 1,121 319 2,820  5,125 
Total ................................................................. 268,681 156,639 106,718 446,411  978,449 
 
Areas of special interest 
Wholesale lending 
(Unaudited) 
Wholesale lending covers the range of credit 
facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, 
non-bank financial institutions, corporate entities 
and commercial borrowers. Our wholesale 
portfolios are well diversified across geographical 
and industry sectors, with certain exposures subject 
to specific portfolio controls.  
During the year, we continued to reduce our 
sovereign and financial institution counterparty 
credit risk positions in peripheral eurozone 
countries. We also reduced our exposure to risk 
from financial institution counterparty positions 
across the broader eurozone and from specific 
financial institutions in other countries. This 
process was particularly focused on our surplus 
liquidity, which resulted in significant placements 
directly with central banks in the most highly rated 
countries.  
We actively sought to identify those 
counterparties domiciled in core European 
countries that had exposures to sovereigns and/or 
banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient 
size to threaten their on-going viability in the event 
of an unfavourable conclusion to the current crisis.  
This was undertaken through the analysis of 
publicly available information, reviews of external 
analyst reports and meetings with the counterparties’   
 
113 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
officials. This process enabled us to form a view of 
the credit standing and the level of exposure that 
the counterparties have to peripheral eurozone 
sovereigns and banks. The majority of these 
counterparties are located in France, Germany and 
the Netherlands, where the exposures are disclosed 
in aggregate below. Vulnerable counterparties were 
identified, subject to enhanced monitoring and our 
exposure was managed in a way similar to the 
monitoring and management of direct exposures to 
the peripheral eurozone countries.  
The overall quality of the portfolio was strong 
with most in-country and cross-border limits 
extended to countries with high-grade internal credit 
risk ratings. We regularly update our assessment of 
higher risk countries and adjust our risk appetite 
accordingly. 
Exposures to countries in the eurozone 
(Unaudited) 
2011 was a turbulent year for the global markets, 
dominated by the continuing eurozone debt crisis that 
started with the global financial crisis in 2007 and, 
by 2011, had developed into a severe sovereign debt 
crisis. The measures taken by governments during 
that period to avoid a financial collapse resulted in 
higher debt levels, large fiscal deficits and, in certain 
cases, social and political disruption. During 2011, a 
number of eurozone countries came under severe 
financial pressure and their ability to raise, refinance 
and service their debt was put into question by 
markets, as demonstrated by the record high spreads 
during most of the year. Greece, Ireland and Portugal 
were forced to seek support packages from the 
European Central Bank (‘ECB’) and the International 
Monetary Fund (‘IMF’) under strict conditions, while 
fear of contagion to other eurozone countries forced 
governments to reduce debt levels through austerity 
measures that, at least in the short term, were seen 
as the cause of slow growth for some countries and 
stagnation in others.  
Despite a number of high profile summits and 
meetings the EU was unable to agree and implement 
a strong coherent policy response to the crisis, 
prompting fear of default or the exit from the euro of 
one or more members. Under pressure during most of 
2011, EU members showed an increasing willingness 
to agree a structured common approach, but they also 
demonstrated divergent opinions on the way forward 
and on the measures to be taken. This resulted in the 
three major rating agencies either downgrading, or 
putting on the watch list for possible downgrade, a 
number of sovereigns which intensified the pressure, 
even on the stronger eurozone countries. 
The ongoing sovereign debt crisis, slow 
economic growth, dearth of market financing for 
banks and private sector deleveraging severely 
affected the eurozone financial system, increasing 
the possibility of further banking stress in the region. 
The banking sector within the peripheral eurozone 
countries was particularly under threat as the credit 
risk of domestic and cross-border exposures 
increased significantly. This prompted calls from the 
European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) and the IMF 
for funding and liquidity support and/or the 
recapitalisation of certain European banks.  
The ratings downgrade of a number of eurozone 
countries by major rating agencies in 2011 and 
January 2012 was generally anticipated and was, in 
most cases, not as large as feared, with the exception 
of Portugal which is now rated below investment 
grade. The downgrades are likely to have 
implications for the ratings of European banks and 
government guaranteed securities, as evidenced by 
the downgrade of the European Financial Stability 
Fund (‘EFSF’). 
We continue to closely monitor events and have 
stress-tested our capital position for potential 
scenarios. 
The tables below summarise our exposures to 
selected eurozone countries, including: 
• governments and central banks of selected 
eurozone countries along with near/quasi 
government agencies;  
• banks; and  
• other financial institutions and other corporates. 
Exposures to banks, other financial institutions 
and other corporates are based on the country of 
domicile of the counterparty. 
The following analysis of our exposures to 
selected European countries is made voluntarily to 
reflect developments in best practice disclosure. 
Whilst certain analysis is subject to audit and 
incorporated into the Group’s risk management 
disclosure, it is not required for the purposes of 
compliance with IFRSs. 
Basis of preparation 
(Audited) 
The countries presented were selected as they 
exhibited levels of market volatility during 2011 
which exceeded other eurozone countries and 
demonstrated fiscal or political uncertainty. Certain 
of these countries also have high sovereign debt to 
GDP ratios and a short to medium-term maturity 
concentration of those liabilities.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Wholesale lending 
 
 
114 
The eurozone disclosure includes information 
about our exposures to France, Germany and the 
Netherlands as these countries are seen to have 
considerable exposure to the sovereign debt of the 
peripheral eurozone countries. In addition, these are 
countries where our total direct exposure is greater 
than 5% of the Group’s equity at 31 December 2011. 
An analysis of loans and advances to customers by 
significant countries is provided on page 111. 
The on-balance sheet exposures disclosed in the 
exposure tables below are presented based on the 
appropriate IFRSs classification. Trading assets are 
net of short positions as the fair value of the short 
positions reference the fair value of the trading 
assets. Derivative assets are shown gross and net of 
collateral and derivative liabilities that reduce the 
overall risk exposure. 
Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet exposures 
(Unaudited) 
The Group purchased CDS protection on certain of 
its holdings of Greek government bonds. The net 
fair value of these CDS was US$0.5bn, and the net 
notional value was US$0.8bn as at 31 December 
2011. The CDS were transacted with banks with 
investment grade credit ratings, and would pay out 
in the event of default and certain other credit 
events. There is no significant mismatch between 
the maturity of the Greek government bonds and the 
CDS protection. Other CDS contracts disclosed in 
the tables below were principally entered into for 
customer facilitation. These CDSs are mainly entered 
into with banks and financial institutions where their 
terms are typically drawn up in accordance with the 
guidance set out in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives 
Definitions and the July 2009 Supplement. The credit 
events that trigger the payout of CDSs may differ 
as they are based on the terms of each agreement 
between the counterparties. Such credit events 
normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a 
reference asset or assets, restructuring and 
repudiation or moratoria. 
Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to 
commitments to lend and the amount shown in the 
tables represents the maximum amount that could be 
drawn down by the counterparty. In some instances, 
limitations are imposed on a counterparty’s ability 
to draw down on a facility. These limitations are 
governed by the legal documentation, which differs 
from counterparty to counterparty. In the majority of 
cases, we are bound to fulfil commitments made to 
third parties. 
Summary on-balance sheet exposures to peripheral eurozone countries  
(Unaudited)
 
  Greece  Ireland  Italy  Portugal   Spain   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011         
Sovereign and agencies ........................................  0.4  0.3  2.3  0.5   1.2   4.7 
Banks ....................................................................  0.7  1.9  2.0  0.5   3.1   8.2 
Other financial institutions and corporate ............  3.9  3.2  2.6  0.1   6.0   15.8 
Personal .................................................................  1.0  –  –  –   –   1.0 
  6.0  5.4  6.9  1.1   10.3   29.7 
 
Eurozone sovereigns and agencies 
(Unaudited) 
During 2011, Portugal joined Greece and Ireland in 
the list of the eurozone countries requiring rescue 
packages to remain solvent. Greece required a 
second support package, which was formalised as 
EU leaders announced a 3-year programme totalling 
€109bn (US$155bn). In addition, the EFSF rules 
were changed to allow it to buy bonds on the 
secondary market, finance the recapitalisation of 
banks and provide pre-emptive credit lines to 
eurozone countries under pressure in debt markets. 
The announcement of the second package was 
followed by months of negotiations between the 
parties to determine its details. Final agreement was 
eventually reached in February 2012 ahead of the 
March 2012 deadline for the euro bond payment of 
€14.5bn (US$19bn) by the Greek government, 
calming fears of a disorderly default. The total 
support package has increased to €130bn 
(US$172bn) and includes debt swap arrangements, 
direct support by ECB and an additional haircut by 
private debt holders. 
In 2012, we forecast that the eurozone will 
continue to experience slow growth or possibly 
recession, with unemployment reaching record high 
levels and households continuing to reduce debt. 
We expect that the ECB, along with countries in the 
eurozone, will continue to focus on resolving intra-
eurozone imbalances, rebuilding public finances, 
improving fiscal discipline, strengthening the 
banking system and managing cross-border risk. 
Concerns of contagion of the debt crisis in Greece, 
Ireland and Portugal to other countries, notably Italy 
and Spain, are likely to persist, causing the risk 
premium on most European countries’ sovereign 
debt to remain high. The German economy has 
demonstrated positive signs of stability and has   
 
115 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
experienced positive growth during the year and, 
although it has shown modest growth, the French 
economy is expected to stay resilient should the 
crisis spread to other eurozone countries. 
At 31 December 2011, our exposure to the 
sovereign and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn, US$2.2bn lower 
than at the end of 2010. Of the total financial 
investments available for sale in these countries, 
approximately 46% mature within one year, 21% 
between one and three years and 33% in excess of 
three years. 
At 31 December 2011, our exposure to the 
sovereign and agency debt of Germany, France and 
Netherlands was US$87bn. Of the total financial 
investments available for sale in these countries, 
approximately 26% mature within one year, 28% 
between one and three years and 46% in excess 
of three years. Our exposure in the Netherlands 
predominantly comprises cash placements with the 
Dutch Central Bank, which in turn are put in to the 
euro clearing system (Target 2) managed by ECB. 
Our exposure in Germany and France is 
commensurate to the size of our operations and is 
well diversified across sectors and products. 
During 2011, an impairment charge of 
US$212m was recognised in respect of Greek 
sovereign and agency exposures classified as 
available for sale, reflecting the further deterioration 
in Greece’s fiscal position and the expected effect of 
the range of recently announced support measures. 
The amount of the impairment charge represented the 
cumulative fair value loss on these securities as at the 
end of 2011, and does not necessarily represent the 
expectation of future cash losses. The impairment 
charge was transferred from the available-for-sale 
reserve to the income statement. Our sovereign 
exposures to Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain were 
not considered to be impaired at 31 December 2011 
because, despite financial difficulties in these 
countries, the situation is not severe enough to 
conclude that loss events have occurred which will 
have an impact on the future cash flows of these 
countries’ sovereign securities. 
Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries – sovereigns and agencies 
(Audited)
 
  Greece  Ireland  Italy  Portugal  Spain   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011        
Cash and balances at central banks .....  –  –  –  –  0.1   0.1 
Financial investments held to  
maturity ...........................................  –  –  0.1  –  –   0.1 
– fair value .......................................  – – 0.1 – –   0.1
Financial investments available  
for sale
11
 ...........................................  0.1  0.1  0.8  0.1  0.9   2.0 
– cumulative impairment .................  0.2 – – – –   0.2
– amortised cost ...............................  – 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.9   1.9
Net trading assets .................................  0.3  0.2  1.4  0.4  0.1   2.4 
– gross trading assets .......................  0.4 0.3 8.3 0.6 1.8   11.4
– short positions ..............................  (0.1) (0.1) (6.9) (0.2) (1.7)   (9.0)
Derivatives
12
 ........................................  –  –  –  –  0.1   0.1 
– gross derivative assets ..................  – 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.2   1.5
– collateral and derivative  
liabilities ..................................  – (0.3) (0.7) (0.3) (0.1)   (1.4)
Total .....................................................  0.4  0.3  2.3  0.5  1.2   4.7 
Of which, on-balance sheet exposures 
held to meet insurance liabilities .....  –  0.1  0.3  0.1  0.4   0.9 
– discretionary participatory ...........  – 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.4   0.9
Off-balance sheet exposures ................  –  –  –  –  1.0   1.0 
– commitments ................................  – – – – 1.0   1.0
Total credit default swaps        
– CDS asset positions ......................  1.2  0.2  0.6  0.4  0.4   2.8 
– CDS liability positions .................  (0.7) (0.2) (0.6) (0.3) (0.4)   (2.2)
– CDS asset notionals ......................  1.8  0.9  3.9  1.2  3.3   11.1 
– CDS liability notionals .................  1.0  0.9  3.8  1.2  3.5   10.4 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Wholesale lending 
 
 
116 
Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries – sovereigns and agencies 
(Audited)
 
 France Germany Netherlands   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011 ............................................................................... 27  20  40   87 
 
Eurozone banks 
(Unaudited)
 
As a direct result of the eurozone sovereign debt 
crisis, economic slowdown, uncertain property 
markets and low credit growth, banks in the 
eurozone area continue to face severe stress. 
During the year, banks with direct exposure to 
eurozone sovereigns saw their costs and access to 
funding deteriorate. The concern about solvency of 
weaker banks intensified further following the rescue 
of Dexia Bank Belgium and the failure of MF Global 
Holdings in the US, which lost access to the funding 
markets due to its significant exposures to eurozone 
sovereign debt. Market volatility and funding issues 
were further exacerbated due to downgrades of 
European banks by the major credit rating agencies, 
citing concerns over their ability to absorb losses 
due to possible sovereign debt default, reliance on 
volatile wholesale funding markets and a perceived 
weakening in government support. A crisis of 
confidence emerged and banks became increasingly 
reluctant to lend to each other through the inter-bank 
market, prompting the ECB to take a number of 
extraordinary measures to ease funding pressures in 
the banking system. These included two unlimited 
liquidity operations with a 3-year maturity, the 
widening of eligibility criteria for collateral, 
assistance in providing access to liquidity for 
more (medium-sized) banks and lowering reserve 
requirements from 2% to 1%. The slowdown in the 
inter-bank funding market and the ECB’s liquidity 
measures resulted in the provision of a large part 
of eurozone market liquidity being transferred to 
central banks of highly rated countries, which was 
a further indicator of de-risking by banks in the 
eurozone. These measures helped to ease the 
liquidity crisis in the short term, though medium-
term funding challenges remain. 
The measures taken by policy-makers and banks 
to strengthen the sector have had mixed results. 
Banks have deleveraged by selling certain types of 
assets and investing in safe haven assets in a flight to 
quality. The EBA conducted an industry-wide stress 
test exercise in July 2011 with further updates in 
October and December 2011. Those banks in which 
a capital shortfall was identified were required to 
submit plans to respective national regulators by 
20 January 2012 and reach a minimum core tier 1 
capital ratio of 9% by the end of June 2012. The 
total capital shortfall covering 71 large banks was 
calculated as €109bn (US$146bn) within the 
peripheral eurozone countries, with Greece, Italy, 
Portugal and Spain comprising 68% of the estimate. 
HSBC successfully passed these stress tests 
with a core tier 1 ratio of 10.5% under the modelled 
adverse scenario, exceeding the post-stress minimum 
core tier 1 capital requirement of 5% used in the 
December 2011 update to the exercise. 
We expect challenging market conditions for 
eurozone banks to persist for most of 2012. There 
are significant sovereign and bank refinancing 
requirements and private sector deleveraging will 
continue, the eurozone sovereign debt crisis will 
remain and growth will stay low with the risk of 
recession in some developed economies. In addition, 
the pace of a multitude of regulatory reforms and 
related initiatives that have been launched and/or 
outlined by various policymakers will gather speed 
in 2012, most notably in the areas of capital, 
liquidity and systemic risk (Basel III, CRD IV and 
capital surcharges), new banking structures in the 
UK and revised supervisory structures. 
Our exposure within the eurozone is largely 
to the banks in stronger countries. We continue to 
closely monitor and manage eurozone bank 
exposures in the peripheral eurozone countries, and 
are cautious in lending to this sector. We regularly 
update our assessment of higher-risk eurozone banks 
and adjust our risk appetite accordingly. Where 
possible, we also seek to play a positive role in 
maintaining credit and liquidity supply. We have 
not recognised any impairment as a result of the 
eurozone crisis, in respect of the exposures outlined 
below.   
 
117 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries – banks 
(Audited) 
  Greece  Ireland  Italy  Portugal  Spain   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011        
Loans and advances .............................  0.1  0.1  0.5  0.3  0.2   1.2 
Financial investments held  
to maturity .......................................  –  0.2  0.2  –  –   0.4 
–  fair value ......................................  – 0.2 0.2 – –   0.4
Financial investments available  
for sale
11
 ...........................................  –  0.4  0.3  –  0.4   1.1 
– amortised cost ...............................  – 0.4 0.3 – 0.4   1.1
Net trading assets .................................  0.4  0.9  0.6  0.1  2.0   4.0 
– gross trading assets .......................  0.4 0.9 0.6 0.1 2.4   4.4
– short positions ..............................  – – – – (0.4)   (0.4)
Derivatives
12
 ........................................  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.1  0.5   1.5 
– gross derivative assets ..................  0.7 8.3 1.9 0.2 3.6   14.7
– collateral and derivative  
liabilities ..................................  (0.5) (8.0) (1.5) (0.1) (3.1)   (13.2)
Total .....................................................  0.7  1.9  2.0  0.5  3.1   8.2 
Of which, on-balance sheet exposures 
held to meet insurance liabilities .....  –  0.2  0.4  –  0.4   1.0 
– discretionary participatory ...........  – 0.2 0.4 – 0.4   1.0
Off-balance sheet exposures ................  0.2  –  0.1  –  0.4   0.7 
– guarantees and other .....................  0.2 – 0.1 – 0.4   0.7
Total credit default swaps        
– CDS asset positions ......................  –  –  0.5  0.1  0.1   0.7 
– CDS liability positions .................  –  –  (0.5) (0.1) (0.1)   (0.7)
– CDS asset notionals ......................  –  –  3.5  0.6  1.5   5.6 
– CDS liability notionals .................  –  –  3.5  0.5  1.4   5.4 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries – banks 
(Audited)
 
 France Germany 
The 
Netherlands   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011 ............................................................................... 47  21  15   83 
 
Other financial institutions and other corporates 
(Unaudited)
 
The credit quality of other financial institutions and 
other corporate portfolios remains strong with no 
significant impairments recognised in respect of 
them. The portfolios largely comprise large  
multinational corporates and other financial 
institutions with significant operations outside these 
countries that mitigate the risk. At 31 December 
2011, our exposure to Greek shipping companies 
amounted to US$2.0bn. We believe the industry is 
less sensitive to the Greek economy as it is mainly 
dependent on international trade.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Wholesale lending / Personal lending 
 
 
118 
Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries – other financial institutions and corporates 
(Audited) 
  Greece  Ireland  Italy  Portugal  Spain   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011        
Loans and advances .............................  3.8  2.1  1.4  –  5.6   12.9 
– gross ..............................................  4.0 2.1 1.4 – 5.7   13.2
– impairment allowances .................  (0.2) – – – (0.1)   (0.3)
Financial investments available  
for sale
11
 ...........................................  –  0.3  0.3  0.1  0.1   0.8 
– available-for-sale reserve .............  – (0.1) – – –   (0.1)
– amortised cost ...............................  – 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.1   0.8
Net trading assets .................................  –  0.3  0.2  –  0.1   0.6 
– gross trading assets .......................  – 0.3 0.2 – 0.2   0.7
– short positions ..............................  – – – – (0.1)   (0.1)
Derivatives
12
 ........................................  0.1  0.5  0.7  –  0.2   1.5 
– gross derivative assets ..................  0.1 0.7 1.0 – 0.2   2.0
– collateral and derivative  
liabilities ..................................  – (0.2) (0.3) – –   (0.5)
Total .....................................................  3.9  3.2  2.6  0.1  6.0   15.8 
Of which, on-balance sheet exposures 
held to meet insurance liabilities .....  –  –  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.4 
– discretionary participatory ...........  – – 0.2 0.1 0.1   0.4
Off-balance sheet exposures ................  1.4  0.3  1.3  –  0.6   3.6 
– guarantees and other .....................  0.6 0.2 0.4 – 0.5   1.7
– commitments ................................  0.8 0.1 0.9 – 0.1   1.9
Total credit default swaps        
– CDS asset positions ......................  0.1  –  0.3  0.1  0.1   0.6 
– CDS liability positions .................  (0.1) –  (0.2) (0.1) (0.1)   (0.5)
– CDS asset notionals ......................  0.2  0.3  3.7  0.6  1.4   6.2 
– CDS liability notionals .................  0.3  0.3  3.5  0.7  1.3   6.1 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries – other financial institutions and corporates 
(Audited)
 
 France Germany 
The 
Netherlands   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011 ............................................................................... 35  7  9   51 
 
Intra-Group funding to peripheral eurozone 
countries 
(Unaudited)
 
We fund our business through local bank deposits 
and by extending intra-Group loans from parts 
of HSBC with surplus funds. Funding carries risk in 
the event of the exit of a member country from the 
eurozone and the redenomination to national 
currencies which would follow and may result in 
their significant depreciation. Measures taken to 
mitigate these risks include changes to composition 
of internal funding sources and seeking access to 
alternative external funding sources to reduce 
potential currency mismatches. 
US budget deficit 
(Unaudited)
 
During 2011, the US economy expanded moderately. 
In August 2011, Standard and Poor’s (‘S&P’) 
lowered its long term debt rating for the US to AA+, 
citing the rising public debt burden and policy-
making uncertainty as the key reasons. Fitch and 
Moody’s changed the US debt rating’s outlook from 
‘stable’ to ‘negative’ for similar reasons. To date, the 
effect of the US downgrade has been less severe than 
originally feared.    
 
119 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
We expect low growth to continue in 2012 
despite the projected continuing fiscal and monetary 
expansion and positive business outlook. However, 
political gridlock continues to cast doubts on the 
administration’s ability to approve a medium-term 
fiscal consolidation plan aimed at reducing public 
debt to more sustainable levels while pursuing 
expansionary policies. A European banking crisis is 
likely to cause severe damage to the global financial 
system, including the US, and will certainly affect 
the credit supply to consumers and businesses there, 
despite strong liquidity and de-leveraging by US 
banks during 2011.  
We continue to closely monitor events and 
have stress-tested our capital position for potential 
scenarios at Group level and for the US business 
only. These results inform Group and US-specific 
capital planning and risk appetite setting as part of 
our annual operating planning process. 
Middle East and North Africa 
(Unaudited)
 
Although significant unrest and political changes 
were witnessed in the Middle East and North Africa 
in 2011, the majority of the Group’s exposures in 
the region were concentrated in our associate 
investment in Saudi Arabia and in the UAE, where 
the respective political landscapes remained stable 
and economic growth continued to recover. In the 
countries in which we have a presence and there was 
unrest or political change (or which exhibited similar 
socio-economic, political and demographic profiles 
to countries experiencing unrest), we continued to 
carefully monitor and respond to developments 
while assisting our customers in managing their 
own risks in the volatile environment. 
We also continued to work closely with Dubai 
World and the various entities related to the 
Government of Dubai to address their prevailing 
issues. In March 2011, Dubai World signed a final 
deal with HSBC and other creditors restructuring 
US$25bn of its debt. The arrangement extends loan 
maturities for five to eight years at discounted rates, 
allowing Dubai World to sell off its non-core assets 
while focusing on its core earnings businesses.  
Commercial real estate 
(Unaudited)
 
Our exposure to the commercial real estate sector is 
concentrated in Hong Kong, the UK and North 
America. The market in Hong Kong was relatively 
buoyant in 2011; however, transaction volumes 
declined and asset prices began to stabilise following 
initiatives taken by supervisory authorities. The UK 
continued to exhibit relative strength in London and 
the South East, though many other regions were 
negatively affected by weak growth in the UK 
economy. We are closely monitoring re-financing 
requirements in the UK market over the next two 
to three years. In North America, the market has 
continued to be relatively stable, in part supported 
by the low levels of interest rates. 
On a constant currency basis, the aggregate of 
our commercial real estate and other property-related 
lending was US$113bn at 31 December 2011, an 
increase of 7% compared with 31 December 2010, 
representing 12% of total loans and advances to 
customers. In 2011, credit quality across this sector 
showed some deterioration from 2010 and there 
remains risk of stress in certain markets. 
Accordingly, across our portfolios, credit risk is 
mitigated by long-standing and conservative policies 
on asset origination which focus on relationships 
with long-term customers and limited initial 
leverage. Group Risk, in conjunction with major 
subsidiaries, designates real estate as a Controlled 
Sector and, accordingly, implements enhanced 
exposure approval, monitoring and reporting 
procedures. We set and monitor risk appetite limits 
for the sector at both Group and regional levels to 
detect and prevent higher risk concentrations. A 
quarterly report comparing the risk-weighted 
exposures of the regions and global businesses 
with these appetite limits is provided to senior 
management. While individual regions may differ 
with regard to local market regulatory and legal 
structures and real estate market characteristics, 
typically, origination LTV ratios would be less than 
65% across the Group where loans are secured on 
commercial real estate assets. Lending to the sector 
also includes lending to large real estate developers 
which is typically not secured directly by charges 
over the underlying real estate assets. 
Personal lending  
(Unaudited) 
We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured 
personal lending products to meet customer needs. 
Given the diverse nature of the markets in which 
we operate, the product is not standard across 
all countries but is tailored to meet local demands 
while using appropriate distribution channels and, 
wherever possible, global IT platforms. 
Personal lending includes advances to customers 
for asset purchases, such as residential property and 
motor vehicles, where the loans are typically secured 
by the assets being acquired. We also offer loans 
secured on existing assets, such as first and second 
liens on residential property; unsecured lending 
products such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Personal lending 
 
 
120 
loans; and debt consolidation loans which may be 
secured or unsecured. 
Group credit policy prescribes the range of 
acceptable residential property LTV thresholds with 
the acceptable maximum upper limit for new loans 
set between 75% and 95%. Specific LTV thresholds 
and debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional 
and country levels and, although such parameters 
must adhere with Group policy, strategy and risk 
appetite, they differ in the various locations in which 
we operate in order to reflect different economic and 
housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio 
performance, pricing and other product features.  
In 2011, credit quality in most personal lending 
portfolios improved, reflecting a recovery of 
economic conditions in many markets. Loan 
impairment charges declined, particularly in those 
countries which had previously been most affected 
by rising unemployment and house price 
depreciation. 
In recent years, the Group has undertaken 
a review of consumer finance activities and has 
reduced the sale of consumer finance and higher-risk 
personal lending products in favour of lower-risk 
facilities and loans secured by owner-occupied 
residential properties. Most notably, we have 
curtailed the use of third party sales agents for 
lending products and the sale of second lien 
mortgages has been significantly restricted, 
contributing to the balance reductions set out on 
page 123. Individual businesses continue to monitor, 
review and amend their debt-to-income ratios, LTV 
thresholds and other lending criteria to reflect risk 
appetite, portfolio performance and regulatory 
requirements in different countries.  
In the US, the origination of new personal 
lending is extremely limited as we have 
progressively closed the consumer finance 
distribution network since 2007, completely 
discontinuing all new consumer finance real estate 
originations following the closure of the Consumer 
Lending branch network at the beginning of 2009. 
As a result, we are managing sizeable reductions in 
customer balances across HSBC Finance portfolios 
as detailed on page 122. 
In the UK, we reduced our risk appetite. 
Underwriting was enhanced across all UK 
businesses, most notably through the use of 
improved credit bureau information and the  
centralisation of the approval process. A range of 
account management tools were deployed with the 
aim of identifying and supporting customers who 
appear to be encountering financial hardship. 
In Hong Kong, we adopted more conservative 
LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios, partially 
in response to regulatory requirements, and 
increased our focus on offering lending products 
to our existing customer base, particularly within 
the higher quality Premier and Advance segments. 
The commentary that follows is on constant 
currency basis. 
At 31 December 2011, total personal lending 
was US$394bn, 6% lower than at 31 December 
2010. Excluding the reclassification of balances held 
for sale, total personal lending grew, primarily in the 
UK and Hong Kong residential mortgage segment. 
Within our personal lending portfolios, total loan 
impairment charges of US$9.3bn were 18% lower 
than in 2010 with the most significant fall in the US 
reflecting the continued run-off of the CML portfolio 
and lower balances and improved delinquency rates 
in our Card and Retail Services business. 
Total personal lending in the UK increased by 
4% from 31 December 2010 to US$133bn, due to an 
increase in residential mortgage balances, driven by 
successful marketing initiatives and competitive 
pricing focused on our target customers. (UK 
mortgage lending is discussed in greater detail on 
page 122). This was partly offset by a 13% fall in 
other personal lending balances, reflecting the 
continued shift from unsecured products such as 
credit cards and personal loans. 
In Hong Kong, total personal lending grew by 
10% to US$63bn, due to growth in residential 
mortgage lending, mainly in the first half of 2011. 
Personal lending balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific 
also reflected a strong property sector with 
residential mortgage lending growth of 13%, most 
notably in Singapore and Australia.  
Total personal lending in the US at 31 December 
2011 was US$67bn, a decrease of 39% compared 
with the end of 2010 reflecting the reclassification 
of balances to held for sale and the run-off of the 
CML portfolio. 
For an analysis of loan impairment allowances 
and impaired loans, see page 134.   
 
121 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Exposures to countries in the eurozone 
(Unaudited)
 
Our retail activities within the eurozone countries are 
limited, with our only significant exposures in 
France and Greece. In France, our exposure to 
personal lending at 31 December 2011 was 
US$14bn. This exposure was mainly in residential 
mortgages, loans secured by a national guarantee 
scheme and unsecured personal loans, and both 
delinquency and impairment charges remained low. 
Our exposure within Greece totalled US$1.0bn, 
substantially in the form of residential mortgages. 
The portfolio remained well secured and 
delinquencies stable as we took measures to manage 
and contain the risks therein. 
 
Total personal lending 
(Unaudited) 
 
 UK 
 Rest of
 Europe  US
13
 Rest of
 North
 America  
 Other 
 regions
14
   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Residential mortgages .......................................... 111,224 8,678 52,484 20,794 85,783 278,963 
Other personal lending ......................................... 22,218 24,027 14,087 7,971 46,359 114,662 
– motor vehicle finance .................................... – 24 20 29 4,494 4,567
– credit cards .................................................... 11,279 2,192 833 1,262 13,922 29,488
– second lien mortgages ................................... 694 – 7,063 468 233 8,458
– other ............................................................... 10,245 21,811 6,171 6,212 27,710 72,149
Total personal lending .......................................... 133,442 32,705 66,571 28,765 132,142 393,625 
Impairment allowances       
Residential mortgages ...................................... (383) (58) (4,551) (27) (302) (5,321)
Other personal lending ..................................... (745) (366) (1,659) (109) (1,560) (4,439)
– motor vehicle finance ................................ – (4) – – (164) (168)
– credit cards ................................................ (177) (148) (46) (35) (428) (834)
– second lien mortgages ............................... (42) (1) (740) (9) – (792)
– other ........................................................... (526) (213) (873) (65) (968) (2,645)
Total impairment allowances on personal  
lending .............................................................. (1,128) (424) (6,210) (136) (1,862) (9,760)
– as a percentage of total personal lending ...... 0.8% 1.3% 9.3% 0.5%  1.4%  2.5% 
       
At 31 December 2010       
Residential mortgages .......................................... 103,037 8,581 57,630 21,212 78,221 268,681 
Other personal lending ......................................... 25,636 24,463 51,686 8,589 46,265 156,639 
– motor vehicle finance .................................... – 35 72 55 5,886 6,048
– credit cards .................................................... 11,612 1,916 33,744 1,334 13,778 62,384
– second lien mortgages ................................... 846 2 9,322 578 422 11,170
– other ............................................................... 13,178 22,510 8,548 6,622 26,179 77,037
Total personal lending .......................................... 128,673 33,044 109,316 29,801 124,486 425,320 
Impairment allowances       
Residential mortgages ...................................... (275) (58) (3,592) (25) (297) (4,247)
Other personal lending ..................................... (1,348) (467) (4,436) (179) (1,616) (8,046)
– motor vehicle finance ................................ – (5) – – (244) (249)
– credit cards ................................................ (506) (216) (2,256) (62) (483) (3,523)
– second lien mortgages ............................... (58) – (889) (19) – (966)
– other ........................................................... (784) (246) (1,291) (98) (889) (3,308)
Total impairment allowances on personal  
lending .............................................................. (1,623) (525) (8,028) (204) (1,913) (12,293)
– as a percentage of total personal lending ......  1.3%  1.6%  7.3%  0.7%   1.5%   2.9% 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Mortgage lending 
(Unaudited)
 
We offer a wide range of mortgage products 
designed to meet customer needs, including capital 
repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset 
mortgages. The commentary that follows is on a 
constant currency basis. 
At 31 December 2011, the total mortgage 
lending balance, comprising residential and second 
lien lending, was US$287bn, 3% higher than at the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Personal lending 
 
 
122 
end of 2010. Our most significant concentrations of 
mortgage lending were in the UK, the US and Hong 
Kong. 
US mortgage lending 
US mortgage lending balances, including second lien 
mortgages, were US$59.5bn at 31 December 2011, a 
decline of 11% compared with the end of 2010. 
Overall, US mortgage lending represented 15% of 
our total personal lending compared with 16% at 
31 December 2010. 
Mortgage lending in HSBC Finance was 
US$44.1bn at 31 December 2011, 11% of our 
gross loans and advances to personal customers. 
These balances declined by 13% from 31 December 
2010 as the run-off of the CML portfolio continued. 
However, despite the continued low interest rate 
environment, our loan repayment rates declined 
compared with historical experience, in part due to 
our ongoing efforts to assist customers avoid 
foreclosure through our loan modification 
programmes which have resulted in slower 
repayment rates.  
HSBC Finance US mortgage lending
15
 
(Unaudited)  
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Mortgage 
 Services  
 Consumer
 Lending 
 Other 
 mortgage 
 lending  Total 
 Mortgage
 Services 
 Consumer 
 Lending  
 Other 
 mortgage 
 lending 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
First lien ........................... 13,141 26,410 57 39,608 15,300 29,950 66 45,316 
Second lien ...................... 1,724 2,777 19 4,520 2,269 3,326 23 5,618 
 14,865 29,187 76 44,128 17,569 33,276 89 50,934 
Impairment allowances .... 1,846  3,242 – 5,088 1,837 2,474  –  4,311
–  as a percentage of total 
mortgage lending ....  12.4%  11.1% –  11.5%  10.5%  7.4%  –  8.5% 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
At HSBC Bank USA, mortgage lending 
balances were US$15.4bn at 31 December 2011, a 
reduction of 4% compared with the end of 2010. 
This was primarily due to the reclassification of 
balances relating to the pending sale of certain non-
strategic branches to assets held for sale in the third 
quarter of 2011, partly offset by an increase in new 
mortgage sales to our Premier customers. 
As previously reported, the Federal Reserve 
Board completed an industry-wide examination 
into foreclosure practices in 2010. The resulting 
Servicing Consent Order required us to take 
prescribed actions to address certain deficiencies in 
our foreclosure processes, as well as review all 
foreclosures pending or completed between January 
2009 and December 2010. We continue to work 
closely with the regulators to align our processes as 
required and are implementing operational changes 
as necessary. Although we have resumed 
foreclosures in 48 states, it will be a number of 
months before we fully resume all foreclosure 
activities in all states, as we need to ensure that all 
necessary enhancements have been satisfactorily 
implemented.  
During 2011, certain courts and state 
legislatures issued new rules relating to foreclosures. 
In some courts, scrutiny of documentation increased, 
while in others additional verification of information 
was required prior to foreclosure. This combination 
of factors led to a significant backlog of foreclosures 
which will take some time to resolve, and may result 
in additional delays which could have an adverse 
effect on house prices resulting in higher loss 
severities. 
For discussion of credit trends in the US 
mortgage lending portfolio and the steps taken to 
mitigate risk, see ‘US personal lending – credit 
quality’ on page 124. 
Mortgage lending – rest of the world 
Mortgage lending in the UK was US$112bn at 
31 December 2011, our largest concentration of this 
exposure, representing 12% of total gross lending to 
customers. The balance was 8% higher than at 
the end of 2010.  
In the UK, the majority of mortgage lending was 
to existing customers holding current or savings 
account relationships with HSBC. We continued to 
restrict lending for the purchase of residential 
property for the purpose of rental, and almost all new 
business was originated through our own sales force, 
with self-certification of income not permitted. 
These lending practices helped to ensure that our UK 
mortgage portfolio remained of high quality, and our   
 
123 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
average LTV ratios for new business and our total 
mortgage books were 53% and 52%, respectively.  
Loan impairment charges and delinquency 
levels in our UK mortgage book remained at very 
low levels, reflecting the strong credit quality of the 
portfolio and the low interest rate environment 
which helped to make mortgage repayments more 
affordable for customers, some of whom were 
actively reducing their outstanding debt levels. 
In Hong Kong, mortgage lending was 
US$46.8bn, an increase of 10% compared with the 
end of 2010. It was supported by the low interest rate 
environment and the strength of the local property 
market. The strong growth in the property market led 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) 
to introduce measures in both the second half of 
2010 and June 2011 such as increasing deposit 
requirements, reducing the maximum LTV ratios for 
new loans and capping the maximum debt-to-income 
ratios. These resulted in a reduction in property 
prices in the second half of the year and lower 
sales volumes. The quality of our mortgage book 
remained strong with an average LTV ratio of 
49% on new mortgage sales and 37% on our total 
mortgage books.  
The following table shows the levels of 
mortgage lending products in our various portfolios 
in the US, the UK and the rest of the Group. 
 
Mortgage lending products 
(Unaudited) 
 
 UK 
 Rest of
 Europe  US
13
 Rest of
 North
 America  
 Other 
 regions
14
   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Residential mortgages .................................................. 111,224 8,678 52,484  20,794  85,783  278,963 
Second lien mortgages .................................................. 694 – 7,063  468  233  8,458 
Total mortgage lending ................................................. 111,918 8,678 59,547  21,262  86,016  287,421 
Second lien as a percentage of total mortgage lending ... 0.6%  0.0%  11.9%  2.2%   0.3%   2.9% 
Impairment allowances       
Residential mortgages .............................................. (383) (58) (4,551) (27) (302) (5,321)
Second lien mortgages ............................................. (42) (1) (740) (9) – (792)
Total impairment allowances on mortgage lending . (425) (59) (5,291) (36) (302) (6,113)
Interest-only (including offset) mortgages ................... 46,886 48 – 667  1,256  48,857 
Affordability mortgages, including ARMs .................. 177 496 17,089  277  6,894  24,933 
Other ............................................................................. 106 – – – 189  295 
Total interest-only and affordability mortgages ........... 47,169 544 17,089  944  8,339  74,085 
– as a percentage of total mortgage lending ............ 42.1%  6.3%  28.7%  4.4%   9.7%   25.8% 
At 31 December 2010       
Residential mortgages .................................................. 103,037 8,581 57,630 21,212  78,221 268,681 
Second lien mortgages .................................................. 846 2 9,322 578  422  11,170 
Total mortgage lending ................................................. 103,883 8,583 66,952 21,790  78,643  279,851 
Second lien as a percentage of total mortgage lending ... 0.8%  0.0%  13.9%  2.7%   0.5%   4.0% 
Impairment allowances       
Residential mortgages .............................................. (275) (58) (3,592) (25) (297) (4,247)
Second lien mortgages ............................................. (58) – (889) (19) – (966)
Total impairment allowances on mortgage lending . (333) (58) (4,481) (44) (297) (5,213)
Interest-only (including offset) mortgages ................... 45,039 51 – 908  1,282  47,280 
Affordability mortgages, including ARMs .................. 1,089 326 18,494  274  7,855  28,038 
Other ............................................................................. 102 – – – 183  285 
Total interest-only and affordability mortgages ........... 46,230 377 18,494  1,182  9,320  75,603 
– as a percentage of total mortgage lending ............ 44.5%  4.4%  27.6%  5.4%   11.9%   27.0% 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > Personal lending / US personal lending 
 
 
124 
US personal lending 
(Unaudited) 
Credit quality 
During 2011, economic conditions in the US 
remained challenging. However, they began to show 
signs of improvement during the fourth quarter as 
employment growth accelerated, in part due to 
seasonal hiring, and increased consumer spending. 
House prices remained under pressure during 2011 
due to foreclosure levels, which remained high, 
despite the industry-wide delays in foreclosure 
processing.  
Unemployment rates, which are a major factor 
in the deterioration of credit quality, remained high 
at 8.5% in December 2011, down from 9.4% in 
December 2010. Unemployment rates were at or 
above the US national average in 17 states. 
A future improvement in the US economy 
remains dependant upon a recovery in the housing 
market, a fall in unemployment rates, the 
stabilisation of energy prices and improved 
consumer confidence. Any further weakening in 
these factors may continue to adversely affect 
consumer payment patterns and credit quality. 
Mortgage lending 
In 2011, we further reduced our mortgage exposure 
in the US as balances continued to run-off in the CML 
portfolio, as discussed on page 122. At 31 December 
2011, residential mortgage lending balances were 
US$52.5bn, a decline of 9% compared with the end of 
2010. The ratio of impairment allowances to total 
mortgage lending in HSBC Finance increased from 
8.5% at 31 December 2010 to 11.5% at 31 December 
2011. This increase largely reflected the effects of the 
delays in foreclosure activity and the increased 
forbearance activity within the portfolio. 
Real estate markets in the US have been affected 
by stagnation or declines in property values. As a 
result, LTV ratios for our real estate secured loans 
have generally deteriorated since origination. Lending 
balances with LTV ratios of greater than 100% have 
historically had a greater likelihood of becoming 
delinquent, resulting in higher loss severity which 
could adversely affect our loan impairment 
allowances. For more information on residential 
mortgages by levels of collateral, see page 144. 
In the CML portfolio, two months or more 
delinquent balances increased compared with the end 
of 2010. This was due to the temporary suspension of 
foreclosure activities, which resulted in a slowing in 
the rate at which lending balances were transferred to 
foreclosed. As a result, in our Consumer Lending 
portfolio, two months or more delinquent balances 
increased in dollar terms from US$4.9bn at 
31 December 2010 to US$5.1bn at 31 December 
2011, while in our Mortgage Services portfolio they 
remained unchanged at US$2.8bn. 
At HSBC Bank USA, two months or more 
delinquency rates increased from 7.9% to 8.2% 
at 31 December 2011, reflecting the suspension of 
foreclosure activities. 
Second lien mortgage loans have a risk profile 
characterised by higher LTV ratios because in the 
majority of cases the loans were taken out 
to complete the refinancing of properties. Loss 
experience on default of second lien loans has 
typically approached 100% of the amount 
outstanding, as any equity in the property is initially 
applied to the first lien loan. The majority of second 
lien loans are to customers that hold a first lien 
mortgage issued by a third party. Impairment 
allowances for these loans are determined by 
applying a roll-rate migration analysis which 
captures the propensity of these loans to default 
based on past experience. Approximately 97% of 
our US second lien mortgages, where the first lien 
mortgages are held or serviced by us and have a 
delinquency status of 90 days or more past due, 
are themselves 90 days or more past due. Once 
we assume a second lien mortgage loan is likely to 
progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in 
establishing our impairment allowance is close to 
100%. In the US, second lien mortgage balances 
declined by 24% to US$7.1bn at 31 December 2011, 
representing 12% of the overall US mortgage 
lending portfolio. Two months or more delinquent 
balances were US$0.7bn at 31 December 2011 
compared with US$0.8bn at 31 December 2010. 
Prior to foreclosure, carrying amounts of the 
loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are 
written down to the discounted cash flows expected 
to be recovered, including from the sale of the 
property. Broker price opinions are obtained and 
updated every 180 days and real estate price trends 
are reviewed quarterly to reflect any improvement 
or additional deterioration. Our methodology is 
regularly validated by comparing the discounted 
cash flows expected to be recovered based on current 
market conditions (including estimated cash flows 
from the sale of the property) to the updated broker 
price opinion, adjusted for the estimated historical 
difference between interior and exterior appraisals. 
The fair values of foreclosed properties are initially 
determined based on broker price opinions. Within 
90 days of foreclosure, a more detailed property 
valuation is performed reflecting information 
obtained from a physical interior inspection of the   
 
125 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
property and additional loan impairment allowances 
or write-downs are recorded as appropriate. Updates 
to the valuation are performed no less than once 
every 45 days until the property is sold, with 
declines recorded through an impairment allowance 
on the property. Increases to the valuation are 
recorded to the extent of cumulative losses 
previously recognised through the impairment 
allowance on the property. 
In late 2010, we temporarily suspended all new 
foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 ceased 
foreclosures where judgement had yet to be entered 
while we enhanced our processes. As a result, and 
together with an increase in foreclosed property 
sales, the number of foreclosed properties at HSBC 
Finance decreased compared with the end of 
December 2010. 
The average total loss on foreclosed properties 
and the average loss on sale of foreclosed properties 
both increased compared with the end of 2010. This 
was a result of the continued decline in house prices, 
as well as a greater mix of foreclosed properties 
being sold which we have held for longer periods of 
time. Typically the longer the holding period, the 
greater the loss we recognise by the time of sale. See 
the table ‘HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the 
US’ below for more detail. 
Since their introduction in 2010, HSBC Finance 
has increased the use of deed-in-lieu and ‘short 
sales’ to assist our real estate secured receivable 
customers. Under a deed-in-lieu agreement, the 
borrower agrees to surrender the deed to the property 
without being subject to foreclosure proceedings and 
HSBC Finance releases the borrower from further 
obligation. Under a short sale, the property is offered 
for sale to potential buyers at a price which has been 
pre-negotiated between HSBC Finance and the 
borrower. This pre-negotiated price is based on 
updated property valuations and the expectation of 
future cash flows from the customer. Short sales 
also release the borrower from further obligations. 
HSBC’s total losses on deed-in-lieu and short sales 
are generally lower than losses from foreclosed 
loans, or loans where we have previously elected not 
to pursue foreclosure, and the practices generally 
obtain resolution of the delinquent receivable over a 
shorter period of time than the normal foreclosure 
proceedings. HSBC Finance currently expects that 
the use of deed-in-lieu and short sales will continue 
to be significant in the future as it works with its 
customers. 
 
HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the US 
(Unaudited) 
  Half-year ended   
  2011 
 31 Dec
 2011 
 30 Jun 
 2011   2010 
Number of foreclosed properties at end of period .................................... 3,511  3,511  6,982   10,940 
Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the year/quarter ..... 11,187  3,116  8,071   20,489 
Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties
16
 ........................................ 8%  9%  8%   5% 
Average total loss on foreclosed properties
17
 ............................................ 56%  57%  55%   51% 
Average time to sell foreclosed properties (days) ..................................... 185  200  168   161 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Credit cards 
In the second half of 2011, we announced the sale 
of our Card and Retail Services business, which 
includes both our credit card and private label 
operations. We have reclassified the associated 
balances to assets held for sale. We will continue to 
offer all card products and services during transition. 
HSBC Bank USA continues to offer credit cards 
to branch-based customers and corporate cards to 
commercial and wholesale banking clients.  
Two months or more delinquency rates in 
our credit card portfolio declined from 4.7% at 
31 December 2010 to 3.8% at 31 December 2011 
while, in our private label cards portfolio, two 
months or more delinquency rates decreased from 
3.0% at 31 December 2010 to 2.5% at 31 December 
2011 reflecting an increasing willingness on the part 
of customers to make repayments and reduce 
outstanding credit card debt levels. 
Personal non-credit card 
Personal non-credit card lending balances in the US 
decreased significantly, largely due to continued 
run-off. As a result two months or more delinquency 
balances declined from US$0.8bn at 31 December 
2010 to US$0.5bn at 31 December 2011. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Areas of special interest > US personal lending // Credit quality of financial instruments 
 
 
126 
Two months and over contractual delinquency in the US 
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
  2011  2010   2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
In Personal Lending in the US     
Residential mortgages .................................................................................................. 9,065 8,632  9,551 
Of which:     
Mortgage services .................................................................................................... 2,783 2,757  3,093 
Consumer lending .................................................................................................... 5,139 4,861  5,380 
Other mortgage lending ............................................................................................ 1,143 1,014  1,078 
Second lien mortgage lending ...................................................................................... 674 847  1,194 
Of which:     
Mortgage services .................................................................................................... 157 245  384 
Consumer lending .................................................................................................... 344 423  642 
Other mortgage lending ............................................................................................ 173 179  168 
Vehicle finance ............................................................................................................. – –  267 
Credit card .................................................................................................................... 714 957  1,798 
Private label .................................................................................................................. 316 404  622 
Personal non-credit card ............................................................................................... 513 811  1,548 
Total .............................................................................................................................. 11,282 11,651  14,980 
    
  %
18
 %
18
  %
18
Residential mortgages .................................................................................................. 17.1  15.0   14.5 
Second lien mortgage lending ...................................................................................... 8.5  9.1   10.1 
Vehicle finance ............................................................................................................. –  –   4.6 
Credit card .................................................................................................................... 3.8  4.7   7.4 
Private label .................................................................................................................. 2.5  3.0   4.1 
Personal non-credit card ............................................................................................... 8.3  9.5   12.6 
Total .............................................................................................................................. 11.4  10.7   11.1 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Credit quality of financial instruments  
(Audited) 
The five classifications describing the credit quality 
of our lending, debt securities portfolios and 
derivatives are defined in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 188. Additional credit quality information in 
respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is 
provided on page 152. 
During 2011, we amended our presentation of 
impaired loans for portfolios with significant levels 
of forbearance to provide more relevant information 
on the effect of forbearance on the credit risk of 
loans and advances. This change in presentation does 
not affect the accounting policy for the recognition 
of loan impairment allowances. Further details are 
provided on page 133. 
For the purpose of the following disclosure, 
retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are 
not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance 
with our disclosure convention (see page 133), are 
not disclosed within the expected loss (‘EL’) grade 
to which they relate, but are separately classified as 
past due but not impaired. 
2011 compared with 2010 
We assess credit quality on all financial instruments 
which are subject to credit risk, as shown in the 
table on page 127. The balance of these financial 
instruments was US$2,413bn, an increase of 5% 
in 2011, of which US$1,649bn or 68% was classified 
as strong. This percentage was broadly in line with 
2010. The proportion of financial instruments 
classified as good and satisfactory remained broadly 
stable at 16% and 12%, respectively, while the 
proportion of sub-standard financial instruments 
was 2% in both 2011 and 2010. 
Derivative assets increased by 33% to 
US$346bn. This increase was mainly in Europe, 
reflecting an increase in the fair value of interest rate 
contracts compounded by an increase in the notional 
value of outstanding contracts during the period. The 
credit quality of our derivatives portfolio remained 
strong with 81% of balances in this classification, 
broadly in line with 2010. 
Cash and balances at central banks, on which 
credit quality has been assessed, more than doubled 
to US$130bn. This increase was mainly in Europe 
and in North America as we deposited a larger 
portion of our excess liquidity with central banks in 
these regions. As the increases in placements are    
127 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
with central banks considered strong, the proportion 
of balances classified as strong increased from 90% 
to 98%. 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost, on 
which credit quality has been assessed, decreased by 
4% to US$1,121bn. The decline was mainly in North 
America, following the reclassification of certain 
lending balances to assets held for sale. Despite the 
reclassification of balances, the proportion of the 
Group’s loans and advances held at amortised cost 
and categorised as strong and good were broadly 
in line with the end of 2010, at 54% and 22% 
respectively. 
Trading assets, on which credit quality has 
been assessed, decreased by 10% to US$309bn 
in 2011. This reflected a reduction in our holdings 
of government and highly-rated corporate debt 
securities and equity positions, notably in Europe. 
Despite the decline in balances, the proportion of 
balances classified as strong remained stable at 75%. 
The following tables set out our distribution of 
financial instruments by measures of credit quality: 
 
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 
(Audited) 
 Neither past due nor impaired  Past due   Impair-   
   
  Strong   Good Satisfactory
 Sub-
 standard
 but not
 impaired Impaired  
 ment 
allowances
19
  Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011         
Cash and balances at central 
banks ...................................... 126,926 2,678 263 35    129,902 
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks .................... 7,707 150 350 1    8,208 
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness ... 20,922 – – –    20,922 
Trading assets
20
 .......................... 231,594 37,182 39,171 1,502    309,449 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ..................................... 33,199  538 564 8    34,309
– debt securities ..................... 103,163  8,497 18,188 639    130,487
– loans and advances to banks  49,021  20,699 5,186 619    75,525
– loans and advances to 
customers ............................ 46,211  7,448 15,233 236    69,128
Financial assets designated at 
fair value
20
 ............................. 7,176 4,728 830 192    12,926 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ..................................... 123  – – –    123
– debt securities ..................... 6,148  4,728 767 191    11,834
– loans and advances to banks  55  – 63 1    119
– loans and advances to 
customers ............................ 850  – – –    850
Derivatives
20
 .............................. 279,557 45,858 18,627 2,337    346,379 
Loans and advances held at 
amortised cost ........................ 609,081 245,352 194,661 28,210 20,009 41,739 (17,636) 1,121,416 
– loans and advances to banks  144,815  28,813 6,722 568 39 155 (125)  180,987
– loans and advances to 
customers
21
 ......................... 464,266  216,539 187,939 27,642 19,970 41,584 (17,511)  940,429
Financial investments ................ 340,173 24,757 22,139 3,532 – 2,233  392,834 
– treasury and other similar 
bills ..................................... 58,627  3,348 3,144 104 – –   65,223
– debt securities ..................... 281,546  21,409 18,995 3,428 – 2,233   327,611
Assets held for sale .................... 14,365 12,587 7,931 536 2,524 1,479 (1,614) 37,808 
– disposal groups ................... 14,317  12,587 7,931 536 2,522 1,467 (1,614)  37,746
– non-current assets held for 
sale ...................................... 48  – – – 2 12 –  62
Other assets ................................ 11,956 6,526 12,379 1,193 421 517  32,992 
– endorsements and 
acceptances ......................... 1,789  4,075 4,629 504 10 3   11,010
– accrued income and other .. 10,167  2,451 7,750 689 411 514   21,982
Total financial instruments ........ 1,649,457 379,818 296,351 37,538 22,954 45,968 (19,250) 2,412,836 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments  
 
 
128 
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (continued) 
 Neither past due nor impaired
8
  Past due   Impair-   
 
 Strong   Good  Satisfactory
 Sub- 
 standard 
 but not 
 impaired
8
 Impaired
8
  
 ment 
 allowances
19
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010         
Cash and balances at central 
banks ......................................51,682 3,100 2,461 140    57,383 
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks ....................5,631 101 340 –    6,072 
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness ... 19,057 – – –    19,057 
Trading assets
20
 .......................... 256,576 41,620 43,278 2,492    343,966 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ..................................... 23,663  1,000 957 –    25,620
– debt securities ..................... 141,837  8,254 17,222 955    168,268
– loans and advances to banks  55,534  9,980 4,865 77    70,456
– loans and advances to 
customers ............................ 35,542  22,386 20,234 1,460    79,622
Financial assets designated at 
fair value
20
 ............................. 8,377 4,640 6,536 40    19,593 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ..................................... 158  – 1 –    159
– debt securities ..................... 7,310  4,368 6,530 40    18,248
– loans and advances to banks  38  272 5 –    315
– loans and advances to 
customers ............................ 871  – – –    871
Derivatives
20
 .............................. 199,920 45,042 13,980 1,815    260,757 
Loans and advances held at 
amortised cost ........................ 646,296 250,393 183,165 37,231 22,729 47,064 (20,241) 1,166,637 
– loans and advances to banks  166,943  33,051 6,982 1,152 108 193 (158)  208,271
– loans and advances to 
customers
21
 ......................... 479,353  217,342 176,183 36,079 22,621 46,871 (20,083)  958,366
Financial investments ................ 345,265 23,253 17,168 4,479 16 2,591  392,772 
– treasury and other similar 
bills ..................................... 52,423  2,702 1,882 115 – 7   57,129
– debt securities ..................... 292,842  20,551 15,286 4,364 16 2,584   335,643
Other assets ................................ 9,752 6,067 12,212 1,510 513 317  30,371 
– endorsements and 
acceptances ......................... 2,074  3,305 4,227 493 9 8   10,116
– accrued income and other .. 7,678  2,762 7,985 1,017 504 309   20,255
Total financial instruments ........ 1,542,556 374,216 279,140 47,707 23,258 49,972 (20,241) 2,296,608 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Past due but not impaired gross financial 
instruments 
(Audited) 
Past due but not impaired loans are those for which 
the customer is in the early stages of delinquency 
and has failed to make a payment, or a partial 
payment, in accordance with the contractual terms of 
the loan agreement. This is typically where a loan is 
less than 90 days past due and there are no other 
indicators of impairment.  
Further examples of exposures past due but not 
impaired include individually assessed mortgages 
that are in arrears more than 90 days where there are 
no other indicators of impairment, but where the 
value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the 
principal debt and all potential interest for at least 
one year; and short-term trade facilities past due 
more than 90 days for technical reasons such as 
delays in documentation, but where there is no 
concern over the creditworthiness of the 
counterparty. Where groups of loans are collectively 
assessed for impairment, collective impairment 
allowances are recognised for loans classified as past 
due but not impaired. 
At 31 December 2011, US$20.0bn of loans and 
advances held at amortised cost were classified as 
past due but not impaired (2010: US$22.7bn). The 
largest concentration of these balances is in HSBC 
Finance. The decrease compared with 2010 was 
primarily due to the reclassification of the Card and 
Retail Services business to held for sale and the 
continued run-off of the CML portfolio.   
 
129 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by geographical region
8
 
(Audited) 
  Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America  
 Latin
 America  Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011 ........................................ 1,990 1,107 2,319 1,165 10,216  3,212  20,009 
At 31 December 2010 ......................................... 2,516 1,158 2,092 1,318 12,751 2,894 22,729 
 
Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by industry sector
8
 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Banks .......................................................................................................................................................... 39  108 
Customers ................................................................................................................................................... 19,970  22,621 
Personal .................................................................................................................................................. 13,951  17,258
Corporate and commercial ..................................................................................................................... 5,855  5,267
Financial ................................................................................................................................................. 164  96
 20,009  22,729 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 
(Audited) 
  Up to 29
 days 
 30-59
 days 
 60-89
 days 
 90-179 
  days  
 180 days 
 and over   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Loans and advances held at amortised cost
8
 ......................... 14,239 3,680 1,727 223  140  20,009 
– loans and advances to banks .......................................... 39 – – –  –  39 
– loans and advances to customers ................................... 14,200 3,680 1,727 223  140  19,970 
Assets held for sale ................................................................ 1,563 644 307 8  2  2,524 
– disposal groups ............................................................... 1,563 644 307 7  1  2,522 
– non-current assets held for sale ...................................... – – – 1  1  2 
Other assets ............................................................................ 225 80 37 22  57  421 
– endorsements and acceptances ....................................... 7 2 – 1  –  10 
– other ................................................................................ 218 78 37 21  57  411 
 16,027 4,404 2,071 253  199  22,954 
At 31 December 2010       
Loans and advances held at amortised cost
8
 ......................... 15,576 4,272 2,238 482 161 22,729 
– loans and advances to banks .......................................... 108 – – – – 108 
– loans and advances to customers ................................... 15,468 4,272 2,238 482 161 22,621
Other assets ............................................................................ 278 123 57 26  45  529 
– endorsements and acceptances ....................................... 7 – – 1  1  9 
– other ................................................................................ 271 123 57 25  44  520 
 15,854 4,395 2,295 508 206 23,258 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
 
Current policies and procedures regarding 
renegotiated loans and forbearance are 
described in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 188. 
 
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for 
a number of reasons including changing market 
conditions, customer retention and other factors not 
related to the current or potential credit deterioration 
of a customer. When the contractual payment terms 
of a loan have been modified because we have 
significant concerns about the borrower’s ability to 
meet contractual payments when due, these loans are 
classified as ‘renegotiated loans’. For the purposes of 
this disclosure the term ‘forbearance’ is synonymous 
with the renegotiation of loans for these purposes. 
In the Annual Report and Accounts 2011, the 
Group has separately presented all renegotiated loans 
by credit quality classification and has adopted a  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments  
 
130 
more stringent impaired loan disclosure convention 
for portfolios with significant levels of forbearance 
as described on page 133. 
The following tables show the Group’s holdings 
of renegotiated loans and advances to customers by 
industry sector, geography and credit quality 
classification. 
 
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
  Neither 
 past 
 due nor 
 impaired 
 
 Past due 
 but not 
 impaired  Impaired  Total 
 Neither 
 past
 due nor 
 impaired 
 Past due 
 but not 
 impaired   Impaired   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Retail ........................................... 8,133  4,401 19,125 31,659 7,690 4,339  23,406  35,435 
Residential Mortgages............. 5,916  3,560 15,932 25,408 5,244 3,381  18,137  26,762 
Other personal ........................ 2,217  841 3,193 6,251 2,446 958  5,269  8,673 
Commercial real estate ................ 2,793  9 3,248 6,050 2,877 12  2,401  5,290 
Corporate and commercial .......... 3,432  461 3,376 7,269 4,125 186  2,501  6,812 
Financial ..................................... 249  –  491 740 17 –  565  582 
Governments ............................... 113  2 132 247 51 –  7  58 
 14,720  4,873 26,372 45,965 14,760 4,537  28,880  48,177 
Total renegotiated loans and advances to customers as a percentage 
of total gross loans and advances to customers ....................................  4.8%      5.0% 
 
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geography 
(Unaudited) 
 2011  2010 
 US$m US$m 
   
Europe .......................................................................................................................................................................... 11,464  10,692 
Hong Kong .................................................................................................................................................................. 447  420 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ..................................................................................................................................................... 448  679 
Middle East and North Africa ..................................................................................................................................... 2,655  1,866 
North America ............................................................................................................................................................. 28,475  31,990 
Latin America .............................................................................................................................................................. 2,476  2,530 
Total ............................................................................................................................................................................. 45,965  48,177 
Total impairment allowances on renegotiated loans ................................................................................................... 7,670 7,482 
Individually assessed ............................................................................................................................................... 2,311 1,657
Collectively assessed ............................................................................................................................................... 5,359 5,825
 
2011 compared with 2010 
(Unaudited) 
Renegotiated loans totalled US$46.0bn at 
31 December 2011 (2010: US$48.1bn). The most 
significant volume of renegotiation activity took 
place in North America and, at 31 December 2011, 
amounted to US$28.5bn or 62% of total renegotiated 
loans (2010: US$32.0bn or 66%), substantially all of 
which were retail loans held by HSBC Finance. Of 
the total renegotiated loans in North America, 
US$17.8bn were presented as impaired at 
31 December 2011 (2010: US$22.0bn), and the ratio 
of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at 
31 December 2011 was 28% (2010: 25%). 
Europe was the next largest region for 
renegotiation activity which, at 31 December 2011, 
amounted to US$11.5bn (2010: US$10.7bn), 
constituting 25% of total renegotiated loans (2010: 
22%). Of the total renegotiated loans in Europe, 
US$6.0bn were presented as impaired at 
31 December 2011 (2010: US$4.8bn), and the ratio 
of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at 
31 December 2011 was 30% (2010: 28%). The 
renegotiated loans in Europe were largely 
concentrated in the commercial real estate sector 
41% (2010: 39%) and the corporate and commercial 
sector 32% (2010: 31%). The commercial real estate 
sector, particularly in the UK, faced a weakening in 
property values and a reduction in institutions 
funding commercial real estate lending. The 
commercial real estate mid-market sector continued 
to experience higher levels of renegotiation activity 
than is evident with larger corporates, where 
borrowers are generally better capitalised and have 
access to wider funding market opportunities. In all 
cases, in assessing the acceptability of renegotiated 
loans, we consider the ability to service interest as a   
 
131 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
minimum and reduce capital repayments as 
available. Despite Europe, and the UK in particular, 
holding the single largest retail lending portfolio in 
the Group, renegotiations of retail loans in this 
region were limited due to the quality of the 
residential mortgage book. 
Forbearance activity within the Middle East and 
Latin America (primarily in Mexico and Brazil) was 
predominately undertaken in the commercial real 
estate and corporate and commercial sectors. 
Forbearance activity within Hong Kong and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific was insignificant. 
HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing  
(Unaudited) 
HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and 
re-age (‘loan renegotiation’) programmes in order to 
manage customer relationships, improve collection 
opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure. 
Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented 
an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a 
significant portion of its loan portfolio has been 
subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of 
the customer relationship as a consequence of the 
economic conditions in the US and the nature of 
HSBC Finance’s customer base.  
From late 2009 and continuing into 2011, the 
volume of loans that qualify for a new modification 
has reduced significantly. We expect this to continue 
to decline as HSBC Finance believes a decreasing 
percentage of its customers with unmodified loans 
would benefit from loan modification in a way that 
would avoid non-payment of future cash flows. In 
addition, volumes of new loan modifications are 
expected to decrease due to improvements in 
economic conditions over the long-term, the 
cessation of new real estate secured and personal 
non-credit card receivables originations, the 
continued run-off of the portfolio and, beginning in 
the second quarter of 2010, more stringent qualifying 
payment requirements for loan modifications. 
 
Overview by type of loan renegotiation programme in 
HSBC Finance 
• A temporary modification is a change to the contractual 
terms of a loan that results in the giving up of a right to 
contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period of time. 
With a temporary modification the loan is expected to revert 
back to the original contractual terms including the interest 
rate charged after the modification period. An example is 
reduced interest payments. 
A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications 
involve interest rate reductions. These modifications 
lower the amount of interest income HSBC Finance is 
contractually entitled to receive in future periods. 
Historically, modifications have generally been for a period 
of six months although extended modification periods are 
now more common. 
Loans that have been temporarily modified within HSBC 
Finance remain classified as impaired until they have 
demonstrated a history of payment performance against the 
original terms for typically 18 months after the modification 
date.  
• A permanent modification is a change to the contractual 
terms of a loan that results in giving up a right to contractual 
cash flows over the life of the loan. An example is a 
permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.  
Permanent or very long-term modifications, which are due 
to an underlying hardship event, remain classified as 
impaired for their full life. 
• The term ‘re-age’ is a renegotiation whereby the contractual 
delinquency status of a loan is reset to current after 
demonstrating payment performance. The overdue principal 
and/or interest is deferred and paid at a later date. Loan re-
ages enable customers that have been unable to make a 
small number of payments to have their loan delinquency 
status reset to current, thus remediating overdue balances 
that affect their credit score. 
Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired 
until they have demonstrated a history of payment 
performance against the original contractual terms for at 
least 12 months. 
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a 
re-ageing of the loan although a loan may be re-aged 
without any modification to the original terms and 
conditions of the loan.  
 
Qualifying criteria 
For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must 
meet certain criteria. However, HSBC Finance 
retains the right to decline a renegotiation. The 
extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates 
accounts that are eligible under its existing policies 
will vary depending upon its view of prevailing 
economic conditions and other factors which may 
change from year to year. In addition, exceptions to 
policies and practices may be made in specific 
situations in response to legal or regulatory 
agreements or orders. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments  
 
 
132 
Renegotiated real estate secured and personal 
non-credit card receivables are not eligible for a 
subsequent renegotiation until 12 or 6 months, 
respectively, with a maximum of five renegotiation 
actions within a five-year period. Borrowers must be 
approved for a modification and generally make two 
minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 
days to activate a modification.  
In certain circumstances where the debt has 
been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer 
or no payments may be required. Accounts whose 
borrowers are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with 
a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged upon 
receipt of one qualifying payment, whereas accounts 
whose borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 
bankruptcy protection may be re-aged upon receipt 
of a signed reaffirmation agreement. In addition, for 
some products, accounts may be re-aged without 
receipt of a payment in certain special circumstances 
(e.g. in the event of a natural disaster or a hardship 
programme). 
Review of loan classification methodology 
In the third quarter of 2011, HSBC Finance 
undertook a review of its loan classification 
methodology to provide greater differentiation of 
loans based on their credit risk characteristics. This  
review was performed partly as a result of updated 
US guidance on ‘troubled debt restructurings’ and 
because an increasing percentage of the portfolio has 
been subject to forbearance in recent years, with the 
closure of the portfolio to new business. The review 
involved extensive statistical analysis of actual 
default experience in the portfolio. Amongst other 
improvements, this review resulted in changes to 
further differentiate the credit characteristics 
of forbearance cases, including those which return to 
performing status following forbearance. The review 
included consideration of the application of the 
Group’s accounting policy for the recognition of 
impairment allowances for the CML portfolio, and 
changes to improve assumptions about default and 
severity rates for the purposes of measuring 
impairment allowances. The consequent changes 
did not result in a material change to impairment 
allowances recorded by HSBC Finance under 
IFRSs. However, the Group’s revised impaired loan 
disclosure convention was adopted. 
At 31 December 2011, renegotiated real estate 
secured accounts represented 86% (2010: 85%) of 
North America’s total renegotiated loans, and 
US$16bn (2010: US$18.2bn) of renegotiated real 
estate secured loans in HSBC Finance were 
classified as impaired. Further details of HSBC 
Finance’s real estate secured accounts and 
renegotiation programmes are provided below.  
Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured accounts 
(Unaudited) 
 
Re-aged
22
 
Modified
and re-aged Modified 
Total re-
negotiated
loans 
Total non- 
renegotiated 
loans 
Total 
gross 
loans 
Total 
impair- 
ment 
allowances 
Impair-
ment
allowances/
gross loans 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % 
31 December 2011 .......... 10,265 12,829 1,494 24,588 19,464 44,052 5,087 12 
31 December 2010 ........... 10,693 14,053 2,286 27,032 23,813 50,845 4,336 9 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio 
(Unaudited) 
 Number of renegotiated loans 
 
Re-aged 
Modified
and re-aged Modified Total 
  (000s)  (000s)  (000s)   (000s) 
31 December 2011 ......................................................................... 121 112 14 246 
31 December 2010 .......................................................................... 123 115 20 258 
 
During 2011, the aggregate number of 
renegotiated loans reduced, despite renegotiation 
activity continuing, due to the run-off of the 
portfolio. Within the constraints of our Group credit 
policy, HSBC Finance’s policies allow for multiple 
renegotiations under certain circumstances, and a 
number of accounts received a second (or further) 
renegotiation during the year which did not appear in 
the statistics presented above. These statistics 
present a loan as an addition to the volume of 
renegotiated loans on its first renegotiation only. At 
31 December 2011, renegotiated loans were 56% 
(2010: 53%) of HSBC Finance’s real estate secured 
accounts.   
 
133 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Corporate and Commercial forbearance  
(Unaudited) 
 
For the current policies and procedures 
regarding forbearance in the corporate and 
commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk 
on page 188. 
 
The majority of the increase in renegotiated loans 
activity for the commercial real estate sector in 2011 
arose in Europe, which increased by US$617m. This 
increase predominately related to the renegotiation 
of a large exposure together with high levels of 
forbearance in the UK towards the end of 2011 
reflecting current economic conditions, including a 
weakening in property values and a reduction in 
institutions funding commercial real estate lending. 
In the corporate and commercial sector the 
increase in renegotiated loans in 2011 was again a 
result of increased forbearance activity in Europe. 
The increase related to renegotiations of a small 
number of larger lending arrangements provided to 
European corporate entities and economic pressures 
in Europe more generally. This was partially off-set 
by repayments and write-offs of renegotiated loans 
in Europe, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America. 
In the financial sector the increase in 
renegotiated loans in 2011 primarily related to 
financial difficulties in one financial sector entity. In 
the government sector renegotiation activity was 
wholly due to increases in Latin America caused by 
term extension restructurings of municipal and local 
authority facilities. 
Impaired loans disclosure 
(Audited) 
During 2011 we adopted a revised disclosure 
convention for the presentation of impaired loans 
and advances which affects the disclosure of loans 
and advances in the geographical regions with 
significant levels of forbearance activity. The 
previous impaired loan disclosure convention was 
that impaired loans and advances were those 
classified as CRR9, CRR10, EL9 or EL10 and all 
retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless 
individually they had been assessed as not impaired. 
Renegotiated loans that did not meet the above 
criteria were classified as ‘neither past due nor 
impaired’ or ‘past due but not impaired’ as 
appropriate, however these loans were assessed for 
impairment in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy on the recognition of impairment 
allowances, as described on page 193. 
The revised disclosure convention continues to 
be based on internal credit rating grades and, for 
retail exposures, 90 days or more past due status. 
However, it introduces a more stringent approach to 
the assessment of whether renegotiated loans are 
presented as impaired. Management believes that 
this revised approach better reflects the nature of 
risks and inherent credit quality in our loan portfolio 
as it is more closely calibrated to the types of 
forbearance concession granted and applies stricter 
requirements for the performance of renegotiated 
loans before they may be presented as no longer 
impaired. It also reflects developments in industry 
best practice disclosure, as well as a refinement of 
loan segmentation in our North America consumer 
lending business. The revised disclosure convention 
affects the disclosure presentation of impaired loans 
but does not affect the accounting policy for the 
recognition of impairment allowances.  
Under this revised disclosure convention, 
impaired loans and advances are those that meet any 
of the following criteria: 
• loans and advances classified as CRR 9, CRR 
10, EL 9 or EL 10 (a description of our internal 
credit rating grades is provided on page 191);  
• retail exposures 90 days or more past due, 
unless individually they have been assessed as 
not impaired; or 
• renegotiated loans and advances that have been 
subject to a change in contractual cash flows as 
a result of a concession which the lender would 
not otherwise consider, and where it is probable 
that without the concession the borrower would 
be unable to meet its contractual payment 
obligations in full, unless the concession is 
insignificant and there are no other indicators 
of impairment. Renegotiated loans remain 
classified as impaired until there is sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction 
in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, 
and there are no other indicators of impairment.  
For loans that are assessed for impairment on 
a collective basis, the evidence to support 
reclassification as no longer impaired typically 
comprises a history of payment performance against 
the original or revised terms, depending on the 
nature and volume of forbearance and the credit risk 
characteristics surrounding the renegotiation. For 
loans that are assessed for impairment on an 
individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on 
a case by case basis.  
In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority 
of HSBC’s loan forbearance activity occurs, the 
demonstrated history of payment performance is 
with reference to the original terms of the contract, 
reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of this  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment of loans and advances  
 
134 
portfolio. The payment performance periods are 
monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the 
levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. 
Further disclosure about loans subject to 
forbearance is provided on page 129. Renegotiated 
loans and forbearance disclosures are subject to 
evolving industry practice and regulatory guidance. 
Impaired loan comparative data for 
31 December 2010 have been restated to reflect 
the revised impaired loans disclosure convention. 
Restatement of comparative data prior to 
31 December 2010 is not practicable as sufficient 
information is not available to determine what 
assumptions management would have made in 
applying the revised disclosure convention for those 
comparative periods. This includes information 
about assumptions that would have been made in 
establishing the revised, more stringent period of 
payment performance for renegotiated loans before 
they are regarded as unimpaired. The difficulty 
associated with determining these estimates relates 
principally to retail portfolios that are assessed for 
impairment on a collective basis; these estimates 
become more difficult when a longer period of time 
has passed since the credit condition occurred. 
The following table shows the effect of the 
revised disclosure convention on total reported 
impaired loans and advances to customers for 
geographical regions with significant levels of 
forbearance. 
 
Impaired loans and advances to customers 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
At 31 December – previous disclosure convention ................................................................................... 27,211 28,091 
Reclassified from neither past due nor impaired ....................................................................................... 7,895 11,200 
Europe .................................................................................................................................................... 509 838
Middle East and North Africa ............................................................................................................... 61 63
North America ....................................................................................................................................... 6,688 9,638
Latin America ........................................................................................................................................ 637 661
Reclassified from past due but not impaired .............................................................................................. 6,478 7,580 
Europe .................................................................................................................................................... – –
Middle East and North Africa ............................................................................................................... 30 33
North America ....................................................................................................................................... 6,310 7,475
Latin America ........................................................................................................................................ 138 72
At 31 December – revised disclosure convention ...................................................................................... 41,584 46,871 
Impairment of loans and advances 
Impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by industry sector
8
 
(Audited) 
 Impaired loans and advances at  
31 December 2011 
Impaired loans and advances at  
31 December 2010 
  Individually
 assessed 
 Collectively
 assessed  Total 
 Individually 
 assessed 
  Collectively 
 assessed 
 
 Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m  US$m 
Banks ........................................................... 155 – 155 193 – 193 
Customers .................................................... 16,555 25,029 41,584 16,058 30,813 46,871 
–  personal ............................................... 2,474 24,069 26,543 2,443  29,997  32,440
–  corporate and commercial ................... 12,898 960 13,858 12,499  816  13,315
–  financial ............................................... 1,183 – 1,183 1,116  –  1,116
 16,710 25,029 41,739 16,251 30,813 47,064 
For footnote, see page 185.  
 
135 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Impairment allowances 
(Audited) 
The tables below analyse by geographical region the 
impairment allowances recognised for impaired  
loans and advances that are either individually 
assessed or collectively assessed, and collective 
impairment allowances on loans and advances 
classified as not impaired. 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Gross loans and advances to customers
8
        
Individually assessed impaired loans
23
 ...................... 10,490 519 963 2,187 1,832 563 16,554 
Collectively assessed
24
 .............................................. 429,088 157,727 123,687 25,402 148,096 57,386 941,386 
Impaired loans
23
 .................................................... 1,261 85 106 238 20,864 2,476  25,030
Non-impaired loans
25
 ............................................ 427,827 157,642 123,581 25,164 127,232 54,910  916,356
TGLAC ...................................................................... 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940 
Impairment allowances .............................................. 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511 
Individually assessed ............................................. 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324  6,537
Collectively assessed ............................................. 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687  10,974
Net loans and advances ............................................. 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 940,429 
          
  %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
Individually assessed allowances as a percentage of 
individually assessed loans and advances ............. 35.8  55.5  52.4  57.2  22.7  57.4  39.5 
Collectively assessed allowances as a percentage of 
collectively assessed loans and advances ............. 0.3  0.2  0.2  1.8  4.6  2.9  1.2 
Total allowances as a percentage of TGLAC ........... 1.2  0.4  0.6  6.2  4.8  3.5  1.8 
          
At 31 December 2010        
Gross loans and advances to customers
8
        
Individually assessed impaired loans
23
 ...................... 9,400 637 1,185 2,167 1,886 783 16,058 
Collectively assessed
24
 .............................................. 432,062 140,683 108,505 24,111 197,816 59,214 962,391 
Impaired loans
23
 .................................................... 1,994 23 139 362 25,954 2,341  30,813
Non-impaired loans
25
 ............................................ 430,068 140,660 108,366 23,749 171,862 56,873  931,578
TGLAC ...................................................................... 441,462 141,320 109,690 26,278 199,702 59,997 978,449 
Impairment allowances .............................................. 5,663 629 959 1,652 9,170 2,010 20,083 
Individually assessed ............................................. 3,563 345 629 1,163 390 367  6,457
Collectively assessed ............................................. 2,100 284 330 489 8,780 1,643  13,626
Net loans and advances ............................................. 435,799 140,691 108,731 24,626 190,532 57,987 958,366 
          
  %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
Individually assessed allowances as a percentage of 
individually assessed loans and advances ............. 37.9  54.2  53.1  53.7  20.7   46.9   40.2 
Collectively assessed allowances as a percentage of 
collectively assessed loans and advances ............. 0.5  0.2  0.3  2.0  4.4   2.8   1.4 
Total allowances as a percentage of TGLAC ........... 1.3  0.4  0.9  6.3  4.6   3.4   2.1 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment allowances  
 
 
136 
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks 
(Audited) 
 Banks Customers   
 individually
assessed 
 Individually
 assessed 
 Collectively
 assessed   Total 
 
US$m 
 US$m  US$m   US$m 
2011     
At 1 January .................................................................................... 158 6,457 13,626 20,241 
Amounts written off  ....................................................................... (16) (1,633) (10,831) (12,480)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off .............. – 191 1,235 1,426 
Charge to income statement ........................................................... (16) 1,931 9,590 11,505 
Exchange and other movements
26
 .................................................. (1) (409) (2,646) (3,056)
At 31 December .............................................................................. 125 6,537 10,974 17,636 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers ........ 6,537 10,974 17,511 
–  personal .................................................................................. 694 9,066 9,760
–  corporate and commercial ...................................................... 5,231 1,820 7,051
–  financial .................................................................................. 612 88 700
 % % % % 
As a percentage of loans and advances
27,28
 ................................ 0.09  0.71  1.20  1.67 
     
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2010     
At 1 January .................................................................................... 107 6,494 19,048 25,649 
Amounts written off  ....................................................................... (9) (2,441) (16,850) (19,300)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off .............. 2 143 875 1,020 
Charge to income statement ........................................................... 12 2,613 10,923 13,548 
Exchange and other movements ..................................................... 46 (352) (370) (676)
At 31 December .............................................................................. 158 6,457 13,626 20,241 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers ........ 6,457 13,626 20,083 
–  personal .................................................................................. 615 11,678 12,293
–  corporate and commercial ...................................................... 5,274 1,863 7,137
–  financial .................................................................................. 568 85 653
 % % % % 
As a percentage of loans and advances
27,28
 ................................ 0.11  0.70  1.49   1.91 
For footnotes, see page 185.   
 
137 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector 
(Audited) 
 2011  2010  2009   2008   2007 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January ............................................ 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 13,585 
Amounts written off ..................................................................... (12,480) (19,300) (24,840) (17,955) (12,844)
Personal .................................................................................... (10,431) (16,458) (22,703) (16,625) (11,670)
– residential mortgages ........................................................ (2,662) (4,163) (4,704) (2,110) (930)
– other personal .................................................................... (7,769) (12,295) (17,999) (14,515) (10,740)
Corporate and commercial ....................................................... (2,009) (2,789) (1,984) (1,294) (1,163)
– manufacturing and international trade and services
5
 ........ (1,137) (1,050) (1,093) (789) (897)
– commercial real estate and other property-related ........... (392) (1,280) (327) (115) (98)
– other commercial .............................................................. (480) (459) (564) (390) (168)
Financial
29
 ................................................................................. (40) (53) (153) (36) (11)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years ................... 1,426 1,020 890 834 1,005 
Personal .................................................................................... 1,175 846 712 686 837 
– residential mortgages ........................................................ 86 93 61 19 19
– other personal .................................................................... 1,089 753 651 667 818
Corporate and commercial ....................................................... 242 156 170 142 157 
– manufacturing and international trade and services
5
 ........ 135 92 123 76 74
– commercial real estate and other property-related ........... 20 21 9 6 29
– other commercial .............................................................. 87 43 38 60 54
Financial
29
 ................................................................................. 9 18 8 6 11 
Charge to income statement
30
 ....................................................... 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 17,177 
Personal .................................................................................... 9,318 11,187 19,781 20,950 15,968 
– residential mortgages ........................................................ 4,103 3,461 4,185 5,000 1,840
– other personal .................................................................... 5,215 7,726 15,596 15,950 14,128
Corporate and commercial ....................................................... 2,114 2,198 4,711 2,879 1,176 
– manufacturing and international trade and services
5
 ........ 901 909 2,392 1,573 897
– commercial real estate and other property-related ........... 764 660 1,492 755 152
– other commercial .............................................................. 449 629 827 551 127
Financial
29
 ................................................................................. 73 163 450 302 36 
Governments ............................................................................ – – – – (3)
Exchange and other movements ................................................... (3,056) (676) 685 (2,250) 289 
At 31 December ........................................................................... 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 
      
Impairment allowances against banks:      
– individually assessed ............................................................. 125 158 107 63 7 
Impairment allowances against customers:      
– individually assessed ............................................................. 6,537 6,457 6,494 3,284 2,699 
– collectively assessed .............................................................. 10,974 13,626 19,048 20,625 16,506 
At 31 December ............................................................................ 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 
  %  %  %   %   % 
Impairment allowances against customers as a percentage of 
loans and advances to customers:        
– individually assessed ............................................................. 0.68   0.66  0.70    0.34    0.27 
– collectively assessed .............................................................. 1.15   1.39  2.07    2.16    1.65 
At 31 December ............................................................................ 1.83   2.05  2.77    2.50    1.92 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment allowances  
 
 
138 
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Audited) 
2011 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January ......................... 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 
Amounts written off .................................................. (2,781) (210) (554) (187) (6,830) (1,918) (12,480)
Personal ................................................................... (1,685) (116) (391) (172) (6,591) (1,476) (10,431)
– residential mortgages ........................................ (25) – (6) (2) (2,545) (84)  (2,662)
– other personal
5
 .................................................. (1,660) (116) (385) (170) (4,046) (1,392)  (7,769)
Corporate and commercial ...................................... (1,066) (94) (161) (15) (233) (440) (2,009)
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ....................................................... (554) (64) (120) (4) (100) (295)  (1,137)
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ (265) (6) (13) (10) (83) (15)  (392)
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. (247) (24) (28) (1) (50) (130)  (480)
Financial
29
 ............................................................... (30) – (2) – (6) (2) (40)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous  
years ........................................................................ 572 47 185 102 132 388 1,426 
Personal ................................................................... 525 31 168 53 101 297 1,175 
– residential mortgages ........................................ 21 4 3 – 39 19  86
– other personal
5
 .................................................. 504 27 165 53 62 278  1,089
Corporate and commercial ...................................... 44 16 12 49 30 91 242 
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ....................................................... 19 16 8 2 8 82  135
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ 7 – 1 – 8 4  20
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. 18 – 3 47 14 5  87
Financial
29
 ............................................................... 3 – 5 – 1 – 9 
Charge to income statement
30 
.................................... 1,902 117 274 292 7,050 1,870 11,505 
Personal ................................................................... 610 77 215 124 6,887 1,405 9,318 
– residential mortgages ........................................ 98 (10) 5 42 3,899 69  4,103
– other personal
5
 .................................................. 512 87 210 82 2,988 1,336  5,215
Corporate and commercial ...................................... 1,277 37 55 146 122 477 2,114 
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ....................................................... 416 57 35 25 42 326  901
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ 498 – 9 150 48 59  764
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. 363 (20) 11 (29) 32 92  449
Financial
29
 ............................................................... 15 3 4 22 41 (12) 73 
Exchange and other movements ................................ (141) (2) (82) (145) (2,347) (339) (3,056)
At 31 December ........................................................ 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 
       
Impairment allowances against banks:        
– individually assessed .......................................... 50 – – 17 58 – 125 
Impairment allowances against customers:        
– individually assessed .......................................... 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324 6,537 
– collectively assessed
31
 ........................................ 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687 10,974 
At 31 December ......................................................... 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 
  %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
Impairment allowances against customers as a 
percentage of loans and advances to customers:          
– individually assessed .......................................... 0.85  0.18  0.41 4.53 0.28   0.56   0.68 
– collectively assessed
31
 ........................................ 0.34 0.19  0.22 1.68 4.51   2.91   1.15 
At 31 December ......................................................... 1.19  0.37  0.63 6.21  4.79    3.47   1.83 
   
 
139 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
2010 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January ......................... 6,227 804 996 1,393 13,676 2,553 25,649 
Amounts written off .................................................. (3,001) (265) (678) (386) (12,601) (2,369) (19,300)
Personal ................................................................... (1,447) (150) (561) (375) (12,070) (1,855) (16,458)
– residential mortgages ........................................ (49) (1) (10) – (4,027) (76)  (4,163)
– other personal
5
 .................................................. (1,398) (149) (551) (375) (8,043) (1,779)  (12,295)
Corporate and commercial ...................................... (1,539) (109) (110) (11) (507) (513) (2,789)
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ....................................................... (385) (90) (46) (10) (174) (345)  (1,050)
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ (1,022) (18) (18) – (194) (28)  (1,280)
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. (132) (1) (46) (1) (139) (140)  (459)
Financial
29
 ............................................................... (15) (6) (7) – (24) (1) (53)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous  
years ........................................................................ 287 39 188 57 182 267 1,020 
Personal ................................................................... 251 32 168 53 134 208 846 
– residential mortgages ........................................ 29 4 3 – 30 27  93
– other personal
5
 .................................................. 222 28 165 53 104 181  753
Corporate and commercial ...................................... 33 7 7 4 46 59 156 
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ....................................................... 16 7 5 2 19 43  92
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ 6 – – – 11 4  21
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. 11 – 2 2 16 12  43
Financial
29
 ............................................................... 3 – 13 – 2 – 18 
Charge to income statement
30
 .................................... 2,532 137 428 623 8,304 1,524 13,548 
Personal ................................................................... 1,263 78 297 226 8,138 1,185 11,187 
– residential mortgages ........................................ 153 (17) 11 46 3,189 79  3,461
– other personal
5
 .................................................. 1,110 95 286 180 4,949 1,106  7,726
Corporate and commercial ...................................... 1,080 72 146 304 269 327 2,198 
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ....................................................... 395 21 100 165 25 203  909
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ................................................................ 360 (7) 12 117 178 –  660
– other commercial
7
 ............................................. 325 58 34 22 66 124  629
Financial
29
 ............................................................... 189 (13) (15) 93 (103) 12 163 
Exchange and other movements ................................ (305) (86) 25 (18) (327) 35 (676)
At 31 December ......................................................... 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 
       
Impairment allowances against banks:        
– individually assessed .......................................... 77 – – 17 64 – 158 
Impairment allowances against customers:        
– individually assessed .......................................... 3,563 345 629 1,163 390 367 6,457 
– collectively assessed
31
 ........................................ 2,100 284 330 489 8,780 1,643 13,626 
At 31 December ......................................................... 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 
  %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
Impairment allowances against customers as a 
percentage of loans and advances to customers:          
– individually assessed ..........................................  0.81   0.24   0.57   4.43   0.20     0.61     0.66 
– collectively assessed
31
 ........................................  0.48   0.20   0.30   1.86   4.40     2.74     1.39 
At 31 December .........................................................  1.29   0.44   0.87   6.29   4.60     3.35     2.05 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment allowances  
 
 
140 
Impairment charge 
Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge to income statement by industry sector 
(Unaudited) 
 2011 2010 
 Individually
 assessed
 US$m 
 Collectively
 assessed
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
 Individually
 assessed 
 US$m  
 Collectively
 assessed 
 US$m  
 Total 
 US$m 
Banks .................................................................... (16) –  (16) 12  –  12 
Personal ................................................................. 141 9,177 9,318 180  11,007  11,187 
Residential mortgages ...................................... 104 3,999 4,103 137   3,324   3,461 
Other personal
5
 ................................................. 37 5,178 5,215 43   7,683   7,726 
Corporate and commercial ................................... 1,703 411 2,114 2,190  8  2,198 
Manufacturing and international trade 
and services .................................................. 572 329 901 997   (88)  909 
Commercial real estate and other  
property-related ............................................ 768 (4) 764 680   (20)  660 
Other commercial
7
 ............................................ 363 86 449 513   116   629 
Financial ............................................................... 87 2 89 243  (92) 151 
Total charge to income statement ......................... 1,915 9,590 11,505 2,625   10,923   13,548 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement 
(Unaudited) 
  2011  2010  2009   2008   2007 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Individually assessed impairment allowances ............................. 1,915 2,625 4,458  2,064  796 
New allowances ........................................................................ 2,904 3,617 5,173 2,742 1,533
Release of allowances no longer required ............................... (798) (847) (581) (565) (608)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ......................... (191) (145) (134)  (113)  (129)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances ............................. 9,590 10,923 20,484 22,067 16,381 
New allowances net of allowance releases .............................. 10,825 11,798 21,240  22,788  17,257
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ......................... (1,235) (875) (756)  (721)  (876)
Total charge for impairment losses .............................................. 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 17,177 
Banks ....................................................................................... (16) 12 70 54 –
Customers ................................................................................ 11,521 13,536 24,872 24,077 17,177
      
At 31 December      
Impaired loans
8
 ............................................................................. 41,739 47,064 30,845 25,422 19,594 
Impairment allowances ................................................................. 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 
For footnote, see page 185.   
 
141 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
2011        
Individually assessed impairment allowances .......... 1,262 18 67 199 243  126  1,915 
New allowances ..................................................... 1,670 79 207 328 398  222   2,904 
Release of allowances no longer required ............ (378) (41) (114) (80) (111) (74)  (798)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ...... (30) (20) (26) (49) (44) (22)  (191)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances .......... 640 99 207 93 6,807  1,744  9,590 
New allowances net of allowance releases ........... 1,181 126 366 147 6,894  2,111   10,825 
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ...... (541) (27) (159) (54) (87) (367)  (1,235)
Total charge for impairment losses ........................... 1,902 117 274 292 7,050  1,870  11,505 
Banks .................................................................... (11) – – – (5) –   (16)
Customers ............................................................. 1,913 117 274 292 7,055  1,870   11,521 
        
At 31 December 2011        
Impaired loans
8
 .......................................................... 11,819 608 1,070 2,445 22,758  3,039  41,739 
Impairment allowances .............................................. 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239  2,011  17,636 
         
2010        
Individually assessed impairment allowances .......... 1,445 45 198 502 348 87 2,625 
New allowances ..................................................... 1,874 111 311 561 580 180  3,617
Release of allowances no longer required ............ (394) (54) (84) (55) (196) (64)  (847)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ...... (35) (12) (29) (4) (36) (29)  (145)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances .......... 1,087 92 230 121 7,956 1,437 10,923 
New allowances net of allowance releases ........... 1,339 119 389 174 8,102 1,675  11,798
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ...... (252) (27) (159) (53) (146) (238)  (875)
Total charge for impairment losses ........................... 2,532 137 428 623 8,304 1,524 13,548 
Banks .................................................................... 2– –28 –  12
Customers ............................................................. 2,530 137 428 621 8,296 1,524  13,536
        
At 31 December 2010        
Impaired loans
8
 .......................................................... 11,500 665 1,324 2,549 27,902 3,124 47,064 
Impairment allowances .............................................. 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers 
(Unaudited) 
  2011  2010  2009   2008   2007 
 % % % % % 
New allowances net of allowance releases .................................. 1.34  1.65  2.92    2.54    2.09 
Recoveries .................................................................................... (0.15) (0.12) (0.10)   (0.09)   (0.12)
Total charge for impairment losses .............................................. 1.19  1.53  2.82    2.45    1.97 
Amount written off net of recoveries ........................................... 1.14  2.08  2.71    1.75    1.36 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment allowances 
 
 
142 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by 
geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific   MENA 
 North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
  %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
2011          
New allowances net of allowance releases ............... 0.59  0.11  0.38  1.46  4.01    3.54    1.34 
Recoveries ................................................................. (0.14) (0.03) (0.15) (0.38) (0.07)   (0.61)   (0.15)
Total charge for impairment losses ........................... 0.45  0.08  0.23  1.08  3.94    2.93    1.19 
Amount written off net of recoveries ........................ 0.52  0.11  0.31  0.32  3.74    2.39    1.14 
          
2010          
New allowances net of allowance releases ............... 0.74  0.15  0.66  2.71  4.02    3.41    1.65 
Recoveries ................................................................. (0.07) (0.03) (0.20) (0.23) (0.09)   (0.51)   (0.12)
Total charge for impairment losses ........................... 0.67  0.12  0.46  2.48  3.93    2.90    1.53 
Amount written off net of recoveries ........................ 0.71  0.19  0.53  1.32  5.89    4.01    2.08 
 
Loans and advances to customers are excluded 
from average balances when reclassified to held for 
sale. Including these loans and advances to 
customers the North America new allowances net of 
allowance releases would be 3.77%, recoveries 
0.07%, and amounts written off net of recoveries 
3.51%. 
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes in impaired loans by geographical region
8
 
(Unaudited) 
 
 31 Dec 10 
 as reported 
 Constant
 currency
 effect 
 31 Dec 10
at 31 Dec 11
 exchange
 rates 
 Movement
 on a
 constant
 currency
 basis 
 31 Dec 11 
 as reported  
 Reported 
 change  
Movement
 on a
 constant
 currency
 basis 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   %   % 
Europe ................................................ 11,500 (211) 11,289 530 11,819  3%  5% 
Hong Kong ........................................ 665 3 668 (60) 608  (9%)  (9%) 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ........................... 1,324 (55) 1,269 (199) 1,070  (19%)  (16%) 
Middle East and North Africa ........... 2,549 (6) 2,543 (98) 2,445  (4%)  (4%) 
North America ................................... 27,902 (19) 27,883 (5,125) 22,758  (18%)  (18%) 
Latin America .................................... 3,124 (299) 2,825 214 3,039  (3%)  8% 
 47,064 (587) 46,477 (4,738) 41,739  (11%)  (10%) 
For footnote, see page 185. 
2011 compared with 2010 
(Unaudited) 
On a reported basis, loan impairment charges to the 
income statement of US$11.5bn in 2011 declined by 
15% compared with 2010 and by 16% on a constant 
currency basis. During 2011, we revised our 
disclosure convention for impaired loans for regions 
with material levels of forbearance which resulted in 
an increase in the population of impaired loans. 
Impaired loan comparative data for 2010 has been 
restated to reflect the change in disclosure 
convention. On a reported basis our restated 
impaired loans were US$41.7bn, 11% lower than at 
31 December 2010. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
New loan impairment allowances were 
US$13.7bn, a decline of 12% compared with 2010, 
reflecting lower lending balances in our US 
consumer finance portfolios. Releases and recoveries 
of US$2.2bn were 17% higher, mainly in Europe and 
Latin America reflecting improvements in our 
collections operations. 
Impaired loans were 4% of total gross loans and 
advances at the end of 2011, in line with 
31 December 2010. 
In Europe, new loan impairment allowances 
were US$2.9bn, 14% lower than 2010. Individually 
assessed new loan impairment allowances decreased, 
mainly in the UK, as the credit quality of our lending 
portfolio improved, partly offset by an increase in 
allowances in respect of a small number of CMB   
 
143 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
customers in Greece. New collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances also declined, mainly in the 
UK personal lending book, as a result of improved 
delinquency rates, reflecting improved quality in 
both the secured and unsecured portfolios, and a 
range of successful actions taken to mitigate credit 
risk within RBWM including a focus on monitoring 
and identifying customers facing financial difficulty 
at an earlier stage. In addition, lower new loan 
impairment allowances reflected a reduction in 
unsecured lending balances. Impaired loans of 
US$11.8bn were 5% higher than at 31 December 
2010. 
Releases and recoveries in Europe were 
US$949m, an increase of 36% compared with the 
end of 2010 due to successful actions taken to 
mitigate credit risk as described above.  
In Hong Kong, new loan impairment 
allowances fell by 10% compared with 2010 driven 
by a reduction in new loan impairment allowances 
against specific exposures. This was partly offset by 
a rise in new collectively assessed loan impairment 
allowances following a more significant release of 
allowances in 2010, as well as strong growth in 
lending balances. Impaired loans declined by 9% 
from 31 December 2010, reflecting loans whose 
performance improved following the renegotiation 
of terms and are therefore regarded as no longer 
impaired. 
Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were 
US$88m, 4% lower than at the end of 2010. 
New loan impairment allowances in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific decreased by 22% to US$573m. The 
decline reflected lower new collectively assessed 
loan impairment allowances, mainly in India, where 
lending balances fell as certain higher risk unsecured 
portfolios were managed down. New individually 
assessed loan impairment allowances also decreased, 
mainly in Singapore, due to lower new loan 
impairment allowances raised against a single 
GB&M customer compared with 2010. Impaired 
loans in the region decreased by 16% from the end 
of 2010 to US$1.1bn at the end of 2011, mainly in 
India due to the repayment or write-off of previously 
impaired loans. 
Releases and recoveries in the region increased 
by 5%, mainly due to the increased release of 
individually assessed allowances, principally in 
Australia and India. 
In the Middle East and North Africa, new 
loan impairment allowances declined by 35% to 
US$475m in 2011. New individually assessed loan 
impairment allowances fell, as charges in 2011 were 
restricted to a small number of corporate exposures 
and significant charges recorded in 2010 following 
the restructuring of corporate exposures in the 
UAE did not recur. New collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances also declined, primarily in 
the UAE, due to lower delinquencies reflecting a 
repositioning of the loan book to reduce our 
exposure to unsecured lending and focus on higher 
quality customers. Impaired loans declined by 4% 
from 31 December 2010 due to improved 
delinquency in line with stricter credit criteria, as 
referred to above. 
Releases and recoveries in the region increased 
by 63% to US$183m in 2011 due to improved 
economic conditions. 
In North America, new loan impairment 
allowances declined markedly, reducing by 16% 
to US$7.3bn. New collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances declined, mainly in the CML 
portfolio, reflecting continued run-off and, in our 
Card and Retail Services business, lower balances, 
as well as improved delinquency rates as overall 
credit quality improved. This was partly offset by 
additional new loan impairment allowances related 
to the effects of the delays in foreclosure activity. 
Releases and recoveries in North America declined 
by 36% to US$242m. This reflected both the 
improvement in economic conditions in 2010, which 
enabled a high volume of customers who were in 
financial difficulty to make repayments, and the 
continued reductions in outstanding balances in 2011 
as the CML portfolio continued to run off. 
Impaired loans decreased by 18% from the 
end of 2010 to US$22.8bn, due to the continued run-
off of the CML portfolio and the reclassification of 
balances relating to the pending sale of our Card and 
Retail Services business. This was partly offset by 
the effects of the delays in foreclosure processing 
which slowed the rate at which lending balances 
were transferred to foreclosed. 
In Latin America, new loan impairment 
allowances increased by 21% to US$2.3bn. The 
increase in new loan impairment allowances was 
primarily in Brazil reflecting strong lending growth 
in RBWM and CMB, as well as a rise in delinquency 
rates, notably in the second half of 2011. This was 
partly offset by lower new collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances in Mexico, driven by the 
managed decline of the riskier elements of the credit 
cards portfolio. Impaired loans were 8% higher than 
at the end of 2010 driven by increased delinquency 
observed during the year. 
Releases and recoveries in Latin America 
increased by 36% from the end of 2010 to  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral  
 
 
144 
US$463m, largely reflecting an increase in the 
volume of accounts that are delinquent. 
For an analysis of loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions, see page 104. 
Collateral 
Collateral and other credit enhancements 
held 
(Audited) 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost  
Although collateral can be an important mitigant 
of credit risk, it is the Group’s practice to lend on 
the basis of the customer’s ability to meet their 
obligations out of their cash flow resources rather 
than rely on the value of security offered. Depending 
on the customer’s standing and the type of product, 
facilities may be provided unsecured. However, for 
other lending a charge over collateral is obtained and 
considered in determining the credit decision and 
pricing. In the event of default the bank may utilise 
the collateral as a source of repayment.  
Depending on its form, collateral can have a 
significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure 
to credit risk. 
The tables below provide a quantification of the 
value of fixed charges we hold over a borrower’s 
specific asset (or assets) where we have a history 
of enforcing, and are able to enforce, the collateral in 
satisfying a debt in the event of the borrower failing 
to meet its contractual obligations, and where the 
collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an 
established market. The collateral valuation in the 
tables below exclude any adjustments for obtaining 
and selling the collateral. 
We may also manage our risk by employing 
other types of collateral and credit  risk 
enhancements, such as second charges, other 
liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation 
of such mitigants is less certain and their financial 
effect has not been quantified. In particular, loans 
shown in the tables below as not collateralised may 
benefit from such credit mitigants. 
Personal lending 
Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe  
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Fully collateralised ...................... 125,702 46,532 38,381 1,761 60,794 4,891 278,061
Loan to Value (‘LTV’) ratio: 
– less than 25% ........................ 9,898 5,364 2,383 58 3,576 282 21,561
– 25% to 50% .......................... 31,601 19,643 9,978 336 10,593 1,350 73,501
– 51% to 75% .......................... 52,656 17,748 18,006 895 25,138 2,221 116,664
– 76% to 90% .......................... 23,919 2,884 7,624 304 13,590 876 49,197
– 91% to 100% ........................ 7,628 893 390 168 7,897 162 17,138
Partially collateralised         
– greater than 100% LTV ........ 3,275 484 295 174 12,503 102 16,833 
– collateral value ..................... 2,821 466 37 135 10,566 24 14,049
Total residential mortgages .......... 128,977 47,016 38,676 1,935 73,297 4,993 294,894
        
At 31 December 2010        
Fully collateralised ...................... 115,700 43,948 34,674 1,490 66,542 5,086 267,440
Loan to Value (‘LTV’) ratio: 
– less than 25%  ....................... 9,531 4,815 2,082 58 3,779 282 20,547
– 25% to 50% .......................... 27,740 15,984 8,733 235 10,973 1,272 64,937
– 51% to 75% .......................... 46,395 19,574 15,912 634 25,750 2,310 110,575
– 76% to 90% .......................... 23,044 2,569 7,661 409 16,091 1,003 50,777
– 91% to 100% ........................ 8,990 1,006 286 154 9,949 219 20,604
Partially collateralised         
– greater than 100% LTV ........ 4,156 18 176 404 12,327 173 17,254 
– collateral value ..................... 3,705 15 45 152 10,539 88 14,544
Total residential mortgages .......... 119,856 43,966 34,850 1,894 78,869 5,259 284,694
   
 
145 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The above table shows residential mortgage lending 
including off-balance sheet loan commitments by 
level of collateral. Off-balance sheet commitments 
include loans that have been approved but which the 
customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion 
of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such 
as the ‘off-set’ mortgage product. The collateral 
included in the table above consists of first charges 
on real estate. 
The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross on-
balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any 
off-balance sheet loan commitment at the balance 
sheet date divided by the value of collateral. The 
methodologies for obtaining residential property 
collateral values vary throughout the Group, but 
are typically determined through a combination 
of professional appraisals, house price indices or 
statistical analysis. Valuations must be updated on 
a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals of 
every three years. Valuations are conducted more 
frequently when market conditions or portfolio 
performance are subject to significant change or 
when a loan is identified and assessed as impaired. 
Other personal lending 
Other personal lending consists primarily of 
overdrafts, credit cards and second lien mortgage 
portfolios. Second lien lending is supported by 
collateral but the claim on the collateral is 
subordinate to the first lien charge. The majority of 
our second lien portfolios were originated in North 
America where loss experience on defaulted second 
lien loans has typically approached 100%; 
consequently, we do not generally attach any 
significant financial value to this type of collateral. 
Credit cards and overdrafts are generally unsecured. 
Corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) 
lending 
Collateral held is analysed separately below for 
commercial real estate and for other corporate, 
commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. This 
reflects the difference in collateral held on the 
portfolios. In each case, the analysis includes off-
balance sheet loan commitments, primarily undrawn 
credit lines. 
Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe  
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7 ................... 33,376 25,202 10,934 746 10,238 4,841 85,337 
Not collateralised ..................... 5,730 12,552 2,973 631 97 2,136 24,119
Fully collateralised .................. 24,547 11,734 6,929 65 8,506 1,706 53,487
Partially collateralised (A) ....... 3,099 916 1,032 50 1,635 999 7,731
– collateral value on A ......... 1,775 591 280 39 311 559 3,555 
        
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 ................. 3,768 4 75 310 1,057 326 5,540 
Not collateralised ..................... 434 2 10 55 135 127 763
Fully collateralised .................. 1,413 2 23 74 521 196 2,229
Partially collateralised (B)........ 1,921 0 42 181 401 3 2,548
– collateral value on B ........ 1,083 0 26 89 246 1 1,445 
Total commercial real estate  
loans and advances................... 37,144 25,206 11,009 1,056 11,295 5,167 90,877 
        
At 31 December 2010        
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7 ................... 32,192 24,463 9,829 1,015 8,009 4,341 79,849 
Not collateralised ..................... 6,153 10,693 2,600 722 388 2,004 22,560
Fully collateralised .................. 22,904 12,227 6,972 65 6,837 1,574 50,579
Partially collateralised (C)........ 3,135 1,543 257 228 784 763 6,710
– collateral value on C ........ 1,800 955 124 149 288 310 3,626 
        
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 ................. 2,810 3 113 271 1,241 403 4,841 
Not collateralised ..................... 249 1 8 40 60 99 457
Fully collateralised .................. 1,164 2 41 14 533 255 2,009
Partially collateralised (D) ...... 1,397 – 64 217 648 49 2,375
– collateral value on D ........ 867 – 44 206 430 29 1,576 
Total commercial real estate  
loans and advances................... 35,002 24,466 9,942 1,286 9,250 4,744 84,690  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral  
 
 
146 
The collateral included in the table above 
consists of fixed first charges on real estate and 
charges over cash for the commercial real estate 
sector.  
Facilities are disclosed as not collateralised for 
this sector if they are unsecured or benefit from 
credit risk mitigation from guarantees, which are 
not quantified for the purposes of this disclosure. 
Lending to major property companies in Hong 
Kong is, by market practice, typically secured by 
guarantees or is unsecured. In Europe, facilities of 
a working capital nature are generally not secured 
by a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed 
as not collateralised. 
The value of commercial real estate collateral is 
determined through a combination of professional 
and internal valuations and physical inspection. 
Due to the complexity of collateral valuations for 
commercial real estate, local valuation policies 
determine the frequency of review based on local 
market conditions. Revaluations are sought with 
greater frequency where, as part of the regular credit 
assessment of the obligor, material concerns arise in 
relation to the transaction which may reflect on the 
underlying performance of the collateral, or in 
circumstances where an obligor’s credit quality 
has declined sufficiently to cause concern that the 
principal payment source may not fully meet the 
obligation (i.e. the obligor’s credit quality 
classification indicates it is at the lower end e.g. 
sub-standard, or approaching impaired).  
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level of 
collateral 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe  
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 ................. 8,715 512 1,098 2,253 2,448 2,538 17,564 
Not collateralised ..................... 5,583 349 795 1,695 801 1,546 10,769
Fully collateralised .................. 1,765 63 147 60 441 602 3,078
Partially collateralised (A) ....... 1,367 100 156 498 1,206 390 3,717
– collateral value on A ......... 558 55 76 103 541 214 1,547 
At 31 December 2010        
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 ................. 11,962 675 1,256 2,336 2,947 1,902 21,078 
Not collateralised ..................... 8,363 489 933 1,779 1,059 843 13,466
Fully collateralised .................. 1,903 51 142 60 670 854 3,680
Partially collateralised (B)........ 1,696 135 181 497 1,218 205 3,932
– collateral value on B ........ 627 81 80 103 422 114 1,427 
 
The collateral used in the assessment of the 
above primarily includes first legal charges over real 
estate and charges over cash in the commercial and 
industrial sector, and charges over cash and 
marketable financial instruments in the financial 
sector. Government sector lending is generally 
unsecured. 
It should be noted that the table above excludes 
other types of collateral which are commonly taken 
for corporate and commercial lending such as 
unsupported guarantees and floating charges over 
the assets of a customer’s business. While such 
mitigants have value, often providing rights in 
insolvency, their assignable value is insufficiently 
certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure 
purposes.  
As with commercial real estate, the value of 
real estate collateral included in the table above is 
generally determined through a combination of 
professional and internal valuations and physical 
inspection. The frequency of revaluation is 
undertaken on a similar basis to commercial real 
estate loans and advances; however, for financing 
activities in corporate and commercial lending that 
are not predominantly commercial real estate-
oriented, collateral value is not as strongly correlated 
to principal repayment performance. Collateral 
values will generally be refreshed when an obligor’s 
general credit performance deteriorates and it is 
necessary to assess the likely performance of 
secondary sources of repayment should reliance 
upon them prove necessary. For this reason, the table 
above reports values only for customers with CRR 8 
to 10, reflecting that these loans and advances 
generally have valuations which are of comparatively 
recent vintage. For the purposes of the table above, 
cash is valued at its nominal value and marketable 
securities at their fair value.  
The difference between the collateral value and 
the value of partially collateralised lending disclosed 
in the tables above cannot be directly compared to   
 
147 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
any impairment allowances recognised in respect of 
impaired loans, as the loans may be performing in 
accordance with their contractual terms. Where loans 
are not performing in accordance with their 
contractual terms, the recovery of cash flows may be 
affected by other cash resources of the customer, or 
other credit risk enhancements not quantified for the 
purposes of the tables above. The Group’s policy for 
determining impairment allowances, including the 
effect of collateral on these impairment allowances, 
is provided on page 190. 
Loans and advances to banks 
The following table shows loans and advances to 
banks including off-balance sheet loan commitments 
by level of collateral. 
 
Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe  
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Not collateralised ......................... 25,896 34,892 42,586 9,337 14,132 19,516 146,359
Fully collateralised ...................... 31,515 1,365 6,927 32 978 1,238 42,055 
Partially collateralised (A)............ 146 50 445 0 784 114 1,539 
– collateral value on A ............. 104 50 207 0 702 88 1,151
Total ............................................. 57,557 36,307 49,958 9,369 15,894 20,868 189,953
           
At 31 December 2010        
Not collateralised ......................... 31,225 34,336 32,631 10,416 16,829 22,436 147,873
Fully collateralised ...................... 50,316 154 9,558 188 3,101 4,937 68,254 
Partially collateralised (B)............ 91 – 28 – 959 3 1,081 
– collateral value on B ............. 64 – 24 – 956 – 1,044
Total ............................................. 81,632 34,490 42,217 10,604 20,889 27,376 217,208
 
The collateral used in the assessment of the 
above relates primarily to cash and marketable 
securities. Loans and advances to banks are typically 
unsecured. Certain products such as reverse repos 
and stock borrowing are effectively collateralised 
and have been included in the above as fully 
collateralised. The fully collateralised loans and 
advances to banks for Europe in the table above 
consist primarily of reverse repurchase agreements 
and stock borrowing. 
Derivatives 
The ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred 
agreement for documenting derivatives activity. It 
provides the contractual framework within which 
dealing activity across a full range of OTC products 
is conducted, and contractually binds both parties 
to apply close-out netting across all outstanding 
transactions covered by an agreement if either party 
defaults or another pre-agreed termination event 
occurs. It is common, and our preferred practice, for 
the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex 
(‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA Master 
Agreement. Under a CSA, collateral is passed 
between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk 
inherent in outstanding positions. The majority of 
our CSAs are with financial institutional clients. 
A description of the derivative offset amount 
in the ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table is 
provided on page 107. 
Other credit risk exposures 
In addition to collateralised lending described above, 
other credit enhancements are employed and 
methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from 
financial assets. These are described in more detail 
below. 
Government, bank and other financial institution 
issued securities may benefit from additional credit 
enhancement, notably through government 
guarantees that reference these assets. Details of 
government guarantees are included in Notes 15, 19 
and 21 on the Financial Statements. Corporate issued 
debt securities are primarily unsecured. Debt 
securities issued by banks and financial institutions 
include ABSs and similar instruments, which are 
supported by underlying pools of financial assets. 
Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced through 
the purchase of CDS protection. Disclosure of the 
Group’s holdings of ABSs and associated CDS 
protection is provided on page 152. 
Trading assets include loans and advances held 
with trading intent, the majority of which consist of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral / HSBC Holdings / Securitisation exposures and other structured products 
 
 
148 
reverse repos and stock borrowing which, by their 
nature, are collateralised. Collateral accepted as 
security that the Group is permitted to sell or 
repledge under these arrangements is described 
in Note 37 on the Financial Statements. Trading 
assets also include money market term placements 
which are unsecured. 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk 
includes financial guarantees and similar 
arrangements that it issues or enters into, and loan 
commitments that it is irrevocably committed to. 
Depending on the terms of the arrangement, the bank 
may have recourse to additional credit mitigation in 
the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan 
commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults. 
Further information about these arrangements is 
provided in Note 41 on the Financial Statements. 
Collateral and other credit enhancements 
obtained  
(Audited) 
The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking 
possession of collateral held as security, or calling 
upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: 
 Carrying amount as at 
31 December
32
 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Nature of assets   
Residential property ....................... 420 1,155 
Commercial and industrial  
property ..................................... 64 104 
Other .............................................. 17 2 
 501 1,261 
For footnote, see page 185. 
The significant reduction in residential 
properties was due to the suspension of foreclosure 
activities at the end of 2010 and during the first half 
of 2011. See page 122. 
We make repossessed properties available for 
sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used 
to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness. If 
excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, 
they are made available to repay other secured 
lenders with lower priority or returned to the 
customer. We do not generally occupy repossessed 
properties for our business use. 
HSBC Holdings  
(Audited) 
Risk on an enterprise-wide basis in HSBC Holdings 
is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and 
Liability Committee. The major risks faced by 
HSBC Holdings are credit risk and market risk (in 
the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange 
risk), of which the most significant is credit risk. 
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises 
from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from 
guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed 
by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of 
their business. 
These risks are reviewed and managed within 
regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our 
Global Risk function, which provides high-level 
centralised oversight and management of our credit 
risks worldwide. 
HSBC Holdings’ maximum exposure to credit 
risk at 31 December 2011 is shown below. Its 
financial assets principally represent claims on 
Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America. 
No collateral or other credit enhancements were held 
by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions with 
subsidiaries.  
All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC 
undertakings which are banking counterparties 
(2010: 100%).  
HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
 2011  2010 
 US$m US$m 
Cash at bank and in hand:   
– balances with HSBC undertakings ...................................................................................................... 316 459 
Derivatives .................................................................................................................................................. 3,568 2,327 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings .............................................................................................. 28,048 21,238 
Financial investments ................................................................................................................................. 1,078 2,025 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts ................................................................................................ 49,402 46,988 
Loan and other credit-related commitments .............................................................................................. 1,810 2,720 
 84,222 75,757 
 
   
149 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The credit quality of the loans and advances to 
HSBC undertakings is assessed as strong/good, with 
100% of the exposure being neither past due nor 
impaired (2010: 100%). The credit ratings of the 
financial investments held by HSBC Holdings are 
within the S&P ratings range of A to A- (2010: A to 
BBB+) 
Securitisation exposures and other 
structured products 
(Audited) 
This section contains information about our exposure 
to the following:  
• asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s), including 
mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) and 
related collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s); 
• direct lending at fair value through profit or 
loss; 
• monolines; 
• credit derivative product companies; 
• leveraged finance transactions; and 
• representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities. 
Within the above is included information on the 
GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of Solitaire 
Funding Limited (‘Solitaire’), the securities 
investment conduits (‘SIC’s), the asset-backed 
securities trading portfolios and derivative 
transactions with monoline insurers. Further 
information in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is 
provided in Note 43 to the Financial Statements. 
Business model 
(Unaudited) 
MBSs and other ABSs are held in Balance Sheet 
Management and as part of our investment portfolios 
in order to earn net interest income and management 
fees. Some are also held in the trading portfolio and 
hedged through credit derivative protection with the 
intention of earning the spread differential over the 
life of the instruments. 
Our investment portfolios include SICs and 
money market funds, as described in Note 43 on the 
Financial Statements. We also originate leveraged 
finance loans for the purpose of syndicating or 
selling them down to generate trading profit or 
holding them to earn interest margin over their lives. 
 
Accounting policies 
Our accounting policies for the classification and valuation of 
financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements 
of IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, as 
described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of 
assumptions and estimates in respect of the valuation of 
financial instruments is described in Note 16 on the Financial 
Statements. 
Exposure in 2011 
(Audited) 
2011 saw increased uncertainty and concerns around 
sovereign credit risk, and a more pessimistic outlook 
for the US housing market and, as a result, there was 
no reoccurrence of the price appreciation across the 
range of ABS asset classes seen in 2010. The level 
of net write-downs to the income statement 
increased to US$0.3bn (2010: no net write-downs). 
However, unrealised losses in our available-for-sale 
portfolios reduced in the year from US$6.4bn to 
US$5.1bn, mainly as a result of price appreciation on 
assets issued by US government agency and 
sponsored enterprises and a reduction of the reserve 
through impairments taken to the income statement. 
Within the following table are assets held in the 
GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying 
value of US$35.4bn (2010: US$47.1bn). 
 
A summary of the nature of HSBC’s 
exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk 
on page 188. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products  
 
 
150 
Overall exposure of HSBC 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Carrying 
  amount
33
  Including
 sub-prime
 and Alt-A 
 Carrying 
  amount
33
  
 Including 
 sub-prime 
 and Alt-A 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
Asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) ..............................................................
 
 65.6  6.9  73.9  8.5 
– fair value through profit or loss ......................................................... 3.0  0.2 10.8  0.3
– available for sale
34
 .............................................................................. 54.6  5.7  54.7  7.1
– held to maturity
34
 ................................................................................ 2.0  0.2  2.2  0.2
– loans and receivables .......................................................................... 6.0  0.8  6.2  0.9
Direct lending at fair value through profit or loss ..................................... 1.2  0.8  1.6  1.2 
Total ABSs and direct lending at fair value through profit or loss ........... 66.8  7.7  75.5  9.7 
Less securities subject to risk mitigation from credit derivatives with 
monolines and other financial institutions ............................................ (1.9) (0.2) (8.3)   (0.4)
  64.9  7.5  67.2  9.3 
Leveraged finance loans ............................................................................ 3.6  –  4.9  – 
– fair value through profit or loss ......................................................... 0.2  –  0.3  –
– loans and receivables .......................................................................... 3.4  –  4.6  –
  68.5  7.5  72.1  9.3 
Exposure including securities mitigated by credit derivatives  
with monolines and other financial institutions .................................... 70.4  7.7  80.4  9.7 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
ABSs classified as available for sale 
Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs 
are in GB&M through special purpose entities  
(‘SPE’s) which were established from the outset 
with the benefit of external investor first loss 
protection support, together with positions held 
directly and by Solitaire, where we provide first loss 
protection of US$1.2bn through credit enhancement 
and a liquidity facility. 
Movement in the available-for-sale reserve 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 
 Directly 
 held/ 
 Solitaire
35
 SPEs  Total 
 Directly 
 held/ 
 Solitaire
35
   SPEs   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Available-for-sale reserve at 1 January ................ (4,102) (2,306) (6,408) (7,349) (4,864) (12,213)
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of securities ...... 622 (137) 485 2,175 1,543 3,718 
Impairment charge:       
–  borne by HSBC ............................................ 383 26 409 444 – 444 
–  allocated to capital note holders
36
 ................ – 313 313 – 531 531 
Repayment of capital ............................................ 162 183 345 540 187 727 
Other movements .................................................. (150) (140) (290) 88 297 385 
Available-for-sale reserve at 31 December .......... (3,085) (2,061) (5,146) (4,102) (2,306) (6,408)
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Securities investment conduits 
(Audited) 
The total carrying amount of ABSs held through 
SPEs in the above table represents holdings in 
which significant first loss protection is provided 
through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding 
Solitaire.  
At each reporting date, we assess whether there 
is any objective evidence of impairment in the 
value of the ABSs held by SPEs. Impairment 
charges incurred on these assets are offset by a 
credit to the impairment line for the amount of the 
loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to 
the carrying amount of the capital notes being 
sufficient to offset the loss. During the year   
 
151 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
impairment charges in one SPE, Mazarin, exceeded 
the carrying value of the capital notes liability and 
a charge of US$26m (2010: nil) was borne by 
HSBC as shown in the table below. In respect of 
the SICs, the capital notes held by third parties are 
expected to absorb the cash losses in the vehicles. 
Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire 
(Audited) 
 SICs excluding Solitaire at 
31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Available-for-sale reserve .............................................................................................................................. (2,701) (2,666)
– related to ABSs ........................................................................................................................................ (2,061) (2,306)
Economic first loss protection ........................................................................................................................ 2,286 2,246 
Carrying amount of capital notes liability ...................................................................................................... 154 254 
Impairment charge for the year:   
– borne by HSBC ....................................................................................................................................... 26 – 
– allocated to capital note holders .............................................................................................................. 313 531 
 
Impairment methodologies 
(Audited) 
The accounting policy for impairment and 
indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2 on the 
Financial Statements. 
 
A summary of our impairment 
methodologies is provided in the Appendix 
to Risk on page 188. 
Impairment and cash loss projections 
(Unaudited) 
At each reporting date, management undertakes a 
stress analysis. This exercise comprises a shift of 
projections of future loss severities, default rates 
and prepayment rates. The results of the analysis at 
30 June 2011 indicated that further impairment 
charges of US$900m and expected cash losses of 
US$400m could arise over the next two to three 
years. 
This exercise was re-performed at 
31 December 2011 and the results remain 
consistent with the June 2011 guidance. 
For the purposes of identifying impairment at 
the reporting date, the future projected cash flows 
reflect the effect of loss events that have occurred 
at or prior to the reporting date. For the purposes of 
performing stress tests to estimate potential future 
impairment charges, the projected future cash flows 
reflect additional assumptions about future loss 
events after the balance sheet date. 
This analysis makes assumptions in respect 
of the future behaviour of loss severities, default 
rates and prepayment rates. Movements in the 
parameters are not independent of each other. For 
example, increased default rates and increased loss 
severities, which would imply greater impairments, 
generally arise under economic conditions that give 
rise to reduced levels of prepayment, reducing the 
potential for impairment charges. Conversely, 
economic conditions which increase the rates of 
prepayment are generally associated with reduced 
default rates and decreased loss severities. 
At 31 December 2011, the incurred and 
projected impairment charges, measured in 
accordance with accounting requirements, 
significantly exceeded the expected cash losses on 
the securities. Over the lives of the available-for-
sale ABSs the cumulative impairment charges will 
converge towards the level of cash losses. In 
respect of the SICs, in particular, the capital notes 
held by third parties are expected to absorb the cash 
losses arising in the vehicles. 
Analysis of exposures and significant 
movements 
(Audited) 
Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets 
The assets in the table below included US$2.4bn 
(2010: US$3.1bn) relating to US-originated assets 
and US$1.0bn (2010: US$1.1bn) relating to UK 
non-conforming residential mortgage-related 
assets.  
At 31 December 2011, 25% (US$0.9bn) of our 
sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets were 
rated AA or AAA (2010: 38% (US$1.7bn). Of the 
non-high grade assets held of US$2.7bn (2010: 
US$2.8bn), US$1.2bn (2010: US$1.5bn) related to 
US-originated assets. 
There was a reduction in market prices for sub-
prime assets during the course of 2011, particularly 
in the latter stages of the year; this effect was 
coupled with principal paydowns. Further net    
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products 
 
152 
Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss
36
 
(Audited) 
  Trading 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held to
 maturity 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss 
 Loans and 
 receivables   Total 
 Of which 
held through
 consolidated
 SPEs 
 Gross 
 Principal
37
 Credit 
 default 
 swap 
 protection
38
 Net 
 principal 
 exposure
39
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011            
Mortgage-related assets:            
Sub-prime residential .................................... 896 2,134 – – 598 3,628 2,367 6,222 275 5,947 
Direct lending ............................................ 733 – – – –  733 487 1,684 – 1,684
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................. 163 2,134 – – 598  2,895 1,880 4,538 275 4,263
US Alt-A residential ...................................... 190 3,516 166 – 243 4,115 2,827 8,610 100 8,510 
Direct lending ............................................ 114 – – – –  114 – 119 – 119
MBSs ......................................................... 76 3,516 166 – 243  4,001 2,827 8,491 100 8,391
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:         
   
MBSs ......................................................... 38 26,152 1,813 – – 28,003 – 26,498 – 26,498 
Other residential ............................................ 670 3,286 – – 978 4,934 2,098 5,702 – 5,702 
Direct lending ............................................ 314 – – – –  314 – 309 – 309
MBSs ......................................................... 356 3,286 – – 978  4,620 2,098 5,393 – 5,393
Commercial property            
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................. 300 7,240 – 107 1,816 9,463 5,795 11,222 – 11,222 
 2,094 42,328 1,979 107 3,635 50,143 13,087 58,254 375 57,879 
Leveraged finance-related assets:           
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 362 5,566 – – 347 6,275 4,324 7,112 782 6,330 
Student loan-related assets:           
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 179 4,665 – – 153 4,997 4,114 6,681 199 6,482 
Other assets:            
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 1,477 2,044 – 94 1,818 5,433 1,473 7,539 1,391 6,148 
 4,112 54,603 1,979 201 5,953 66,848 22,998 79,586 2,747 76,839 
   
 
 
153 
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview 
 
  Trading 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held to
 maturity 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss 
 Loans and 
 receivables   Total 
 Of which 
 held through
 consolidated 
 SPEs 
 Gross 
 Principal
37
 Credit 
 default 
 swap 
 protection
38
 Net 
 principal 
 exposure
39
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010            
Mortgage-related assets:            
Sub-prime residential .................................... 1,297 2,565 – – 652 4,514 2,763 7,427  348  7,079 
Direct lending ............................................ 1,078 – – – –  1,078 632 2,233 – 2,233
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................. 219 2,565 – – 652  3,436 2,131 5,194 348 4,846
US Alt-A residential ...................................... 180 4,545 191 – 270 5,186 3,651 10,065  100  9,965 
Direct lending ............................................ 96 – – – –  96 – 108 – 108
MBSs ......................................................... 84 4,545 191 – 270  5,090 3,651 9,957 100 9,857
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:         
   
MBSs ......................................................... 657 21,699 2,032 – – 24,388 6 23,739  –  23,739 
Other residential ............................................ 1,075 4,024 – – 1,111 6,210 2,669 6,995  –  6,995 
Direct lending ............................................ 417 – – – –  417 – 424 – 424
MBSs ......................................................... 658 4,024 – – 1,111  5,793 2,669 6,571 – 6,571
Commercial property                 
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................. 546 8,160 – 111 1,942 10,759 6,441 12,625  421 12,204 
 3,755 40,993 2,223 111 3,975 51,057 15,530 60,851  869  59,982 
Leveraged finance-related assets:                
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 392 5,418 – – 414 6,224 3,886 7,148  788  6,360 
Student loan-related assets:           
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 163 5,178 – – 150 5,491 4,251 7,161  100  7,061 
Other assets:            
ABSs and ABS CDOs ................................... 1,936 3,103 – 6,017 1,710 12,766 2,526 15,497  7,765  7,732 
 6,246 54,692 2,223 6,128 6,249 75,538 26,193 90,657  9,522  81,135 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 156.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products // Liquidity and funding 
 
 
154 
impairment of US$42m on assets was recognised 
in 2011 (2010: US$48m) as losses were incurred 
under current accounting impairment rules. Our 
expectation of cash losses on the underlying assets 
did not increase from that at 31 December 2010. Of 
the above impairment, there were US$5m of write-
backs (2010: US$54m – impairment) in the SICs. 
US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets 
During 2011, principal paydowns along with general 
spread widening, particularly in the latter stages of 
the year, contributed to a reduction in the carrying 
values for Alt-A assets from the levels seen in 2010. 
Further impairments of US$687m (2010: US$884m) 
were recorded as losses were incurred under the 
accounting rules described above. Of this 
impairment, US$344m (2010: US$450m) occurred 
in the SICs, of which US$318m (2010: US$450m) 
was borne by the capital note holders. 
At 31 December 2011, 9% (US$0.4bn) of these 
assets were rated AA or AAA (2010: 9% 
(US$0.5bn)). 
Commercial property mortgage-related assets 
Of our total of US$9.5bn (2010: US$10.8bn) 
of commercial property mortgage-related assets, 
US$4.9bn related to US-originated assets (2010: 
US$5.2bn). Spreads tightened on both US and non-
US commercial property mortgage-related assets 
during 2011. Impairments of US$36m (2010: 
US$5m) were recognised in 2011. 
Transactions with monoline insurers 
(Audited) 
HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions 
entered into directly with monolines 
Our principal exposure to monolines is through 
a number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly 
CDSs. We entered into these CDSs primarily to 
purchase credit protection against securities held 
at the time within the trading portfolio. 
During 2011, the notional value of derivative 
contracts with monolines and our overall credit 
exposure to monolines decreased primarily as a 
number of transactions were commuted. The 
table below sets out the fair value, essentially the 
replacement cost, of the remaining derivative 
transactions at 31 December 2011, and hence the 
amount at risk if the CDS protection purchased were 
to be wholly ineffective because, for example, the 
monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations. 
In order to further analyse that risk, the value of 
protection purchased is shown subdivided between 
those monolines that were rated by S&P at ‘BBB- 
or above’ at 31 December 2011, and those that were 
‘below BBB–’ (BBB– is the S&P cut-off for an 
investment grade classification). The ‘Credit 
valuation adjustment’ column indicates the valuation 
adjustment taken against the net exposures, and 
reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of 
value on purchased protection arising from the 
deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines. 
These valuation adjustments, which reflect a 
measure of the irrecoverability of the protection 
purchased, have been charged to the income 
statement. 
HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers 
(Audited) 
 
 Notional
  amount 
 Net exposure 
 before credit 
 valuation 
 adjustment
40
Credit valuation 
 adjustment
41
 
  Net exposure
 after credit
 valuation 
 adjustment 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011    
Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties    
Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) ............... 4,936 873 (87) 786 
Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) ............ 1,552 370 (217) 153 
 6,488 1,243 (304) 939 
At 31 December 2010     
Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties     
Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) ............... 5,179 876 (88) 788 
Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) ............ 2,290 648 (431) 217 
 7,469 1,524 (519) 1,005 
For footnotes, see page 185.   
 
155 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Market prices are generally not readily available 
for CDSs, so they are valued on the basis of market 
prices of the referenced securities. 
Our monoline credit valuation adjustment 
calculation utilises a number of approaches which 
depend upon the internal credit rating of the 
monoline. Our assignment of internal credit ratings 
is based upon detailed credit analysis, and may differ 
from external ratings. The net effect of utilising the 
methodology adopted for ‘highly-rated’ monolines 
across all monolines would be a reduction in credit 
valuation adjustment of US$76m (2010: US$94m). 
The net effect of utilising a methodology based on 
CDS spreads would be an increase in credit 
valuation adjustment of US$178m (2010: US$8m). 
 
Credit valuation adjustments for monolines 
• For highly-rated monolines, the standard credit valuation 
adjustment methodology (as described on page 350) applies, 
with the exception that the future exposure profile is 
deemed to be constant (equal to the current market value) 
over the weighted average life of the referenced security, 
and the credit valuation adjustment cannot fall below 10% 
of the mark-to-market exposure.  
• In respect of monolines where default has either occurred 
or there is a strong possibility of default in the near term, 
the adjustment is determined based on the estimated 
probabilities of various potential scenarios, and the 
estimated recovery in each case.  
• For other monoline exposures, the credit valuation 
adjustment follows the methodology for highly-rated 
monolines, adjusted to include the probability of a claim 
arising in respect of the referenced security, and applies 
implied probabilities of default where the likelihood of a 
claim is believed to be high.  
HSBC’s exposure to direct lending and 
irrevocable commitments to lend to monoline 
insurers 
We had no liquidity facilities to monolines at 
31 December 2011 (2010: nil).  
HSBC’s exposure to debt securities which benefit 
from guarantees provided by monolines 
Within both the trading and available-for-sale 
portfolios, we hold bonds that are ‘wrapped’ with 
a credit enhancement from a monoline. As the 
bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this 
enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile 
of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, 
therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities 
at 31 December 2011. For wrapped bonds held in 
our trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement 
is reflected through the income statement. For 
wrapped bonds held in the AFS portfolio, the mark-
to-market movement is reflected in equity unless 
there is objective evidence of impairment, in which 
case the impairment loss is reflected in the income 
statement. No wrapped bonds were included in the 
reclassification of financial assets described in 
Note 18 on the Financial Statements. 
HSBC’s exposure to credit derivative product 
companies  
Credit derivative product companies (‘CDPC’s) are 
independent companies that specialise in selling 
credit default protection on corporate exposures. At 
31 December 2011, we had purchased from CDPCs 
credit protection with a notional value of US$4.4bn 
(2010: US$4.9bn) which had a fair value of 
US$0.4bn (2010: US$0.2bn), against which a credit 
valuation adjustment (a provision) of US$0.1bn was 
held (2010: US$0.1bn). At 31 December 2011, none 
of our exposure was to CDPCs with investment 
grade ratings (2010: nil). 
Leveraged finance transactions 
(Audited) 
Leveraged finance transactions include sub-
investment grade acquisition or event-driven 
financing. The following table shows our exposure 
to leveraged finance transactions arising from 
primary transactions. Our additional exposure to 
leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs 
from our trading and investment activities is shown 
in the table on page 152. 
We held leveraged finance commitments of 
US$3.7bn at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$5.1bn), 
of which US$3.3bn (2010: US$4.6bn) was funded.  
At 31 December 2011, our principal exposures 
were to companies in two sectors: US$1.3bn to 
data processing (2010: US$2.8bn) and US$1.9bn 
to communications and infrastructure (2010: 
US$1.8bn).   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products 
 
 
156 
HSBC’s exposure to leveraged finance transactions 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Funded 
 exposures
42
 Unfunded 
 exposures
42
 Total
 exposures 
 Funded 
 exposures
42
 
  Unfunded 
 exposures
42
  
 Total 
 exposures 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Europe ................................................... 2,795 253 3,048 3,337  298   3,635 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .............................. – – – 17  22   39 
North America ...................................... 445 126 571 1,066  185   1,251 
 3,240 379 3,619 4,420  505   4,925 
Held within:        
– loans and receivables ..................... 3,120 328 3,448 4,199  393   4,592 
– fair value through profit or loss .... 120 51 171 221  112   333 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities 
(Audited) 
We have been involved in various activities related 
to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages 
which are not recognised on our balance sheet. 
These activities include: 
• the purchase of US$24bn of third-party 
originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and 
the securitisation of these by HSBC Securities 
(USA) Inc. (‘HSI’) between 2005 and 2007; 
• HSI acting as underwriter for third-party 
issuance of private label MBSs with an original 
issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were 
sub-prime; and 
• the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of 
mortgage loans, primarily to government 
sponsored entities. 
In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, 
various representations and warranties regarding the 
loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage 
loans and MBSs. In respect of the purchase and 
securitisation of third party originated mortgages and 
the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation 
to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of 
loan level representations and warranties resides 
predominantly with the organisation that originated 
the loan. 
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation 
market that purchased and repackaged whole loans 
have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental 
and regulatory investigations and inquiries which 
have been directed at groups within the US mortgage 
market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, 
trustees or sponsors of securitisations. Further 
information is provided in Note 44 on the Financial 
Statements.  
At 31 December 2011, a liability of US$237m 
was recognised in respect of various representations 
and warranties relating to the origination and sale by 
HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to 
government sponsored entities (2010: US$262m). 
These relate to, among other things, the ownership of 
the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection 
and origination process and compliance with the 
origination criteria established by the agencies. In 
the event of a breach of our representations and 
warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to 
repurchase the loans with identified defects or to 
indemnify the buyers. The liability is estimated 
based on the level of outstanding repurchase 
demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan 
files and estimated future demands in respect of 
mortgages sold to date which are either two or 
more payments delinquent or expected to become 
delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. 
Repurchase demands of US$113m were outstanding 
at 2011 (2010: US$115m).    
157 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Liquidity and funding  
(Audited) 
Liquidity and funding in 2011 ........................................ 157 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities ................... 158 
The management of liquidity risk .................................. 159 
Encumbered assets .......................................................... 160 
Diversity of funding sources .......................................... 161 
Contingent liability risk .................................................. 161 
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does 
not have sufficient financial resources to 
meet its obligations as they fall due, or will 
have to do so at an excessive cost. The risk 
arises from mismatches in the timing of cash 
flows.  
 
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework  
The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to 
withstand very severe liquidity stresses. It is designed to be 
adaptable to changing business models, markets and 
regulations.  
We expect our operating entities to manage liquidity and 
funding risk on a standalone basis employing a centrally 
imposed framework and limit structure which is adapted to 
variations in business mix and underlying markets. Our 
operating entities are required to maintain strong liquidity 
positions and to manage the liquidity profiles of their assets, 
liabilities and commitments with the objective of ensuring that 
their cash flows are balanced under various severe stress 
scenarios and that all their anticipated obligations can be met 
when due. 
 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of liquidity and 
funding risks in 2011. 
 
 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding liquidity and 
funding is provided in the Appendix to 
Risk on page 188. 
 
Liquidity and funding in 2011 
(Audited) 
The liquidity position of the Group strengthened 
in 2011, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows 
of customer deposits and maintained good access 
to wholesale markets. During 2011, customer 
accounts grew by 2% while customer advances fell 
by 2%, leading to a decrease in our advances-to-
deposits ratio to 75%. Despite a highly competitive 
environment in Asia, our customer accounts grew by 
8% due to growth in deposits in Hong Kong dollars 
and offshore renminbi. 
Market conditions 
2011 was another challenging year for banks in the 
wholesale funding markets. Despite a strong first 
quarter, the total volume of term debt issued by 
banks in 2011 was low by recent historical standards, 
with a particularly marked slow down in the second 
half of the year.  
Developments in the eurozone sovereign debt 
crisis continued to dominate the markets. In May 
2011, Portugal became the third eurozone country to 
seek financial support from the ECB and the IMF. 
Conditions deteriorated markedly over the summer 
with sharp increases in CDS premia for eurozone 
peripheral countries. This prompted European 
authorities to propose a package of measures in 
October including a near doubling of the capacity 
of the European Financial Stability Facility.  
In December, with the crisis reaching systemic 
levels, the ECB injected liquidity into the European 
banking sector via an unprecedented €489bn 
(US$632bn) 3-year Long-Term Refinancing 
Operation (‘LTRO’), and committed to conduct a 
similar operation in February 2012. This intervention 
by the ECB had a positive effect on bank CDS 
levels, as well as on general funding conditions. We 
support the ECB in its efforts to stabilise the capital 
markets. Given the lack of stigma in participating 
and the attractive pricing, and with the outlook for 
capital markets remaining uncertain, we considered 
it prudent for our Continental Europe operations to 
anticipate future funding requirements by 
participating in the LTRO, receiving €5.2bn 
(US$6.7bn) in total, mainly in France.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Liquidity and funding in 2011 / Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 
 
 
158 
Effect on HSBC’s liquidity and funding 
position 
We issue wholesale securities to supplement our 
customer deposits and change the currency mix, 
maturity profile or location of our liabilities. We 
continued to have good access to debt capital 
markets during 2011, with Group entities issuing 
US$22bn of term debt securities in the public capital 
markets at competitive prices in a range of currencies, 
maturities, obligations and markets. Of this amount, 
over 90% was unsecured funding. Our ability to 
access capital markets even in very challenging 
conditions was best demonstrated by the successful 
issuance of US$1.65bn of 10 and 30 year unsecured 
senior bonds by HSBC Holdings in November 2011. 
In general, the prices of our debt securities have not 
been unduly affected by the market turmoil. 
Our European subsidiaries continued to 
maintain a liquidity profile within our risk appetite 
despite the ongoing eurozone crisis.  
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities  
(Audited) 
The balances in the table below will not agree 
directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet 
as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, 
all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon 
payments (except for trading liabilities and trading 
derivatives). In addition, loan and other credit-
related commitments and financial guarantees and 
similar contracts are generally not recognised on 
our balance sheet. Trading liabilities and trading 
derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ time 
bucket, and not by contractual maturity, because 
trading liabilities are typically held for short periods 
of time. We classify the undiscounted cash flows 
payable under hedging derivative liabilities 
according to their contractual maturities. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under 
financial guarantees and similar contracts are 
classified on the basis of the earliest date they can 
be called. 
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited) 
 
 On 
 demand
 US$m 
 Due
 within 3 
 months 
 US$m 
 Due
 between 
 3 and 12 
 months
 US$m 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 5 
 years  
 US$m  
 Due
 after 5 
 years
 US$m 
At 31 December 2011      
Deposits by banks ........................................................... 47,659 59,096 3,578 11,048 997 
Customer accounts .......................................................... 914,762 252,226 72,993 20,508 1,094 
Trading liabilities ............................................................ 265,192 – – – – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................... 7,066 930 9,789 39,915 57,295 
Derivatives ...................................................................... 340,394 394 497 2,858 1,007 
Debt securities in issue ................................................... 117 48,465 27,520 57,507 7,019 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................... 6 528 1,834 9,616 47,715 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
43
 .................. 3,108 1,721 1,045 211 150 
Other financial liabilities ................................................ 25,452 28,137 5,845 2,023 1,377 
 1,603,756 391,497 123,101 143,686 116,654 
Loan and other credit-related commitments .................. 355,366 65,245 94,120 111,061 29,113 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .................... 12,460 7,585 12,107 5,899 1,273 
 1,971,582 464,327 229,328 260,646 147,040 
At 31 December 2010      
Deposits by banks ........................................................... 42,481 70,072 8,393 7,949 1,346 
Customer accounts .......................................................... 881,575 244,501 89,557 23,209 3,483 
Trading liabilities ............................................................300,703 – – – – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................... 7,421 3,786 7,825 35,583 61,575 
Derivatives ...................................................................... 255,046 531 1,143 2,065 942 
Debt securities in issue ................................................... 1,320 48,062 41,939 62,148 16,255 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................... 34 1,491 1,863 10,001 51,293 
Other financial liabilities ................................................ 24,834 24,378 7,944 2,184 824 
 1,513,414 392,821 158,664 143,139 135,718 
Loan and other credit-related commitments .................. 524,394 51,732 14,023 11,964 400 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .................... 18,491 9,233 12,231 7,082 2,399 
 2,056,299 453,786 184,918 162,185 138,517 
For footnote, see page 185.   
159 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Cash flows payable in respect of customer 
accounts are primarily contractually repayable on 
demand or at short notice. However, in practice, 
short-term deposit balances remain stable as inflows 
and outflows broadly match and a significant portion 
of loan commitments expire without being drawn 
upon. We therefore manage our balance sheet on 
both contractual and behaviouralised bases. Each 
operating entity determines the behaviouralisation 
of its products within the guidelines set out in our 
liquidity framework and as approved by its Asset 
and Liability Committee. 
Although on a contractual basis 86% of 
our liabilities are due within one year, only 
approximately half of our behaviouralised liabilities 
are expected to fall due within this one-year period. 
The management of liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
Advances to core funding ratio 
The three principal banking entities listed in the table 
below represented 61% of our total core deposits at 
31 December 2011 (2010: 62%). The distinction 
between core and non-core deposits generally means 
that our measure of advances to core funding is more 
restrictive than that which can be inferred from the 
published financial statements. Loans and advances 
to customers in these principal banking entities were 
overwhelmingly financed by reliable and stable 
sources of funding. We would meet any unexpected 
net cash outflows by using our cash and balances at 
central banks, selling or entering into repos of the 
securities within our liquid asset buffers or accessing 
additional funding sources such as the interbank 
market. Collateralised lending markets could also 
be accessed over the longer term.  
Of particular note was the strong funding 
position of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation, as reflected in the advances to core 
funding ratio in the table below, which allowed us to 
take advantage of loan growth opportunities in Asia 
while still maintaining ratios well below the Group’s 
average. 
HSBC’s principal banking entities – the management of liquidity risk
44
 
(Audited) 
 Advances to core funding  
ratio during: 
Stressed one month coverage  
ratio during: 
  2011  2010   2011   2010 
  %  %   %   % 
HSBC Bank plc
45
       
Year-end .................................................................................... 99.8 103.0  116.2  111.1 
Maximum ................................................................................. 103.4 109.7  118.1  111.3 
Minimum .................................................................................. 98.4 102.6  109.4  103.2 
Average ..................................................................................... 100.8 106.0  112.5  108.2 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
45
     
Year-end .................................................................................... 75.0 70.3  122.9  144.6 
Maximum ................................................................................. 78.9 70.3  144.6  165.4 
Minimum .................................................................................. 70.3 55.5  116.4  132.6 
Average ..................................................................................... 75.9 63.6  124.0  148.8 
HSBC Bank USA
46
     
Year-end .................................................................................... 85.7 98.3  117.7  108.5 
Maximum ................................................................................. 89.5 104.3  128.3  118.5 
Minimum .................................................................................. 79.8 94.2  108.5  105.3 
Average ..................................................................................... 84.6 98.0  118.9  112.3 
Total of HSBC’s other principal banking entities
47
     
Year-end .................................................................................... 86.4 89.1  117.6  119.6 
Maximum ................................................................................. 90.2 89.1  120.4  126.5 
Minimum .................................................................................. 86.4 85.7  116.2  118.1 
Average ..................................................................................... 88.9 87.0  117.9  122.2 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Contractual maturity / Encumbered assets / Funding sources / Contingent liquidity risk 
 
 
160 
Stressed one month coverage ratio 
The stressed one month coverage ratios tabulated 
above are derived from projected cash flow scenario 
analyses described in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 188, and express the stressed cash inflows as 
a percentage of stressed cash outflows over a one 
month time horizon. Group sites are required to 
target a ratio of 100% or more. 
HSBC Finance 
As HSBC Finance is unable to accept standard 
retail customer deposits, it takes funding from the 
professional markets. At 31 December 2011, 
US$51bn (2010: US$65bn) of HSBC Finance’s 
liabilities were drawn from professional markets and 
affiliates, utilising a range of products, maturities 
and currencies. HSBC Finance uses a number 
of measures to monitor funding risk, including 
projected cash flow scenario analysis and caps 
placed on the amount of unsecured term funding that 
can mature in any rolling three-month and rolling 
12-month periods. HSBC Finance also maintains 
access to committed sources of secured funding and 
has in place committed backstop lines for short-term 
refinancing commercial paper (‘CP’) programmes. 
A CP programme is a short-term, unsecured funding 
tool used to manage day to day cash flow needs. In 
agreement with the rating agencies, issuance under 
this programme will not exceed 100% of committed 
bank backstop lines. 
The need for HSBC Finance to refinance 
maturing term funding is largely mitigated by the 
continued run-down of its balance sheet and the 
proposed sale of the Card and Retail Services 
business, which should complete in the second 
quarter of 2012 and is expected to generate 
additional funding of approximately US$12bn. 
During 2011, the shelf registration statement under 
which HSBC Finance has historically issued long-
term debt expired and we chose not to renew it. 
HSBC Finance – funding 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 
  2011   2010 
  US$bn   US$bn 
Maximum amounts of unsecured term 
funding maturing in any rolling: 
   
–  3 month period ............................  5.1   5.1 
–  12 month period ..........................  9.7   10.8 
Unused committed sources of  
secured funding
48
 ............................  0.5   0.5 
Committed backstop lines from  
non-Group entities in support of  
CP programmes ..............................  4.0   4.3 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Encumbered assets 
(Audited) 
Encumbered assets are assets which have been 
pledged or used as collateral or which legally we 
may not be able to use to secure funding. It remains 
a strength that only a small percentage of our assets 
are encumbered and that the majority of our assets 
are available as security for all our creditors. The 
majority of the encumbrance arises due to our repo 
activity within Europe and the US in GB&M, which 
is largely self-funding. 
Our encumbered assets on an IFRSs basis are 
disclosed in Note 37 on the Financial Statements. 
Assets not included in Note 37 but which would 
generally not be used to secure funding include 
assets backing insurance and investment contracts 
(see ‘Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing’ on 
page 173) and Hong Kong government certificates 
of indebtedness which secure Hong Kong currency 
notes in circulation, which are included on the face 
of the consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, 
properties with net book values of US$33m (2010: 
US$31m) are considered encumbered.   
161 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Diversity of funding sources 
(Audited) 
Our primary sources of funding are current accounts 
and savings deposits payable on demand or short 
notice. As part of our liquidity and funding risk 
management, we do not rely on securitisations, 
covered bond issuance programmes or repurchase 
agreements as an important source of funding. 
Repurchase agreements entered into are generally 
short-term in nature maturing in 90 days or less. 
We are a net cash provider to the repo market.  
Our sources and uses of funding, which provide 
a consolidated view of how our balance sheet is 
funded, should be read with consideration of our 
risk management framework which requires our 
operating entities to manage liquidity and funding 
risk on a standalone basis. Notwithstanding the 
above, the material difference between funding 
sources and uses is an illustration of the strength 
of our liquidity position. 
Funding sources 
 
 At 31 December 
 2011  2010 
 US$bn  US$bn 
Customer accounts ..................... 1,253.9  1,227.7 
Deposits by banks ...................... 112.8  110.6 
Debt securities ........................... 131.0  145.4 
Financial liabilities designated  
at fair value ............................ 85.7  88.1 
Equity ......................................... 166.1  154.9 
 1,749.5  1,726.7 
Funding usage 
 
 At 31 December 
 2011  2010 
 US$bn  US$bn 
Loans and advances to 
customers .............................. 940.4  958.4 
Loans and advances to banks ... 181.0  208.3 
Financial investments held to 
maturity ................................. 21.2  19.5 
 1,142.6  1,186.2 
Contingent liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
Contingent liquidity risk is the risk associated with 
the need to provide additional funds to clients. The 
client-originated exposure relates to multi-seller 
conduits, which were established to enable clients 
to access a flexible market-based source of finance 
(see page 404). HSBC-managed asset exposures are 
differentiated in that they relate to consolidated SICs 
which issue debt secured by ABSs (see page 403). 
Other conduit exposures relate to third-party 
sponsored conduits (see page 405). Single issuer 
liquidity facilities are provided directly to clients 
rather than via any form of conduit. These facilities 
are split by the addition of the five largest specific 
facilities and the single largest market sector. 
 
 
 
The Group’s contractual exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure 
(Audited) 
 
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank Canada 
 The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking 
Corporation 
  2011   2010  2011  2010  2011  2010   2011   2010 
  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn   US$bn 
Conduits            
Client-originated assets
49
            
–  total lines ............................  12.8   8.4  0.9  3.9  0.7  0.2   –   – 
–  largest individual lines .......  0.7   0.7  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.1   –   – 
HSBC-managed assets
50 
  
– total lines ..............................  22.1   25.6  –  –  –  –   –   – 
Other conduits
51
  
– total lines ..............................  –   –  1.4  1.4  –  –   –   – 
Single-issuer liquidity facilities            
–  five largest
52
 ........................  3.4   4.2  5.7  5.3  1.8  2.0   1.9   1.4 
–  largest market sector
53
 ........  7.5   8.4  6.5  4.9  3.8  3.8   2.5   2.4 
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > HSBC Holdings // Market risk > Market risk in 2011 / Trading and non-trading portfolios 
 
 
162 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
During 2011, HSBC Holdings continued to have full 
access to debt capital markets at market rates and 
issued US$5.3bn of senior debt (2010: nil). The 
eligibility requirements for non-equity instruments 
under Basel III rules have not been clearly defined in 
the UK, so HSBC Holdings issued no capital 
instruments in 2011 (2010: US$5.0bn). 
The balances in the following table do not agree 
directly with those in the balance sheet of HSBC 
Holdings as the table incorporates, on an 
undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to 
principal and future coupon payments (except 
for trading derivatives). 
In addition, loan and other credit-related 
commitments and financial guarantees and similar 
contracts are generally not recognised on the balance 
sheet. Trading derivatives are included in the ‘On 
demand’ time bucket, and not by contractual 
maturity, because trading derivatives are typically 
held for short periods of time. The undiscounted 
cash flows potentially payable under financial 
guarantees and similar contracts are classified on 
the basis of the earliest date they can be called. 
Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited) 
 
 On 
 demand  
 Due
  within 3
 months  
 Due
 between 
 3 and 12 
 months  
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 5 
 years   
 Due
 after 5 
 years 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011      
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .................... – 1,174 17 1,428 – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............. – 281 3,530 4,987 28,988 
Derivatives ................................................................ 1,067 – – – – 
Debt securities in issue ............................................. – 35 104 1,975 1,490 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................. – 216 649 3,461 27,558 
Other financial liabilities .......................................... – 1,460 – – – 
 1,067 3,166 4,300 11,851 58,036 
Loan commitments ................................................... 1,810 – – – – 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .............. 49,402 – – – – 
 52,279 3,166 4,300 11,851 58,036 
      
At 31 December 2010      
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .................... – 163 1,332 1,453  – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............. – 219 658 5,810  24,215 
Derivatives ................................................................ 827 – – – – 
Debt securities in issue ............................................. – 35 106 2,110  1,559 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................. – 219 657 3,504  28,670 
Other financial liabilities .......................................... – 1,782 – – – 
 827 2,418 2,753 12,877 54,444 
Loan commitments ................................................... 2,720 – – – – 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .............. 46,988 – – – – 
 50,535 2,418 2,753 12,877 54,444 
   
 
163 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Market risk  
(Audited) 
Market risk in 2011 ......................................................... 163
Trading and non-trading portfolios ................................ 163
Structural foreign exchange exposures .......................... 166
Sensitivity of net interest income ................................... 166
Defined benefit pension schemes ................................... 167
Additional market risk measures applicable only to  
the parent company .................................................... 167
 
Market risk is the risk that movements in 
market factors, including foreign exchange 
rates and commodity prices, interest rates, 
credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce 
our income or the value of our portfolios. 
 
Exposure to market risk 
Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: 
• Trading portfolios include positions arising from market-
making and position-taking and others designated as 
marked to market. 
• Non-trading portfolios include positions that primarily 
arise from the interest rate management of our retail and 
commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial 
investments designated as available for sale and held to 
maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance 
operations (see page 165). 
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures 
in order to optimise return on risk while maintaining a 
market profile consistent with our status as one of the world’s 
largest banking and financial services organisations. 
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk 
exposures, including:  
• sensitivity measures are used to monitor the market risk 
positions within each risk type; 
• value at risk (‘VAR’) is a technique that estimates the 
potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a 
result of movements in market rates and prices over a 
specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence; 
and 
• in recognition of V AR’s limitations we augment V AR with 
stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio 
values of more extreme, though plausible, events or 
movements in a set of financial variables. Examples of 
scenarios reflecting current market concerns are the US 
treasuries downgrade and the potential effects of a 
sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion 
effects. 
The major contributor to the trading and non-trading V AR for 
the Group is Global Markets. Market risk arising in our 
insurance business is discussed in ‘Risk management of 
insurance operations’ on page 171. 
 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of market risk in 
2011. 
 
 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding market risk is provided 
in the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
Market risk in 2011 
(Audited) 
Market risk in 2011 was managed against a 
backdrop of global economic slowdown, the fiscal 
deficit of the US and concerns over European 
sovereign debt and its contagion effects. Funding 
and capital concerns relating to financial 
institutions also dominated in Europe. All these 
factors triggered high levels of volatility in the 
financial markets. In addition, the transition to 
CRD III at the end of 2011, with its increased 
capital requirements for certain market risk 
exposures, also affected the environment in which 
market risk appetite was managed over the year. In 
response to these challenges, we managed down 
our market risk exposures within the eurozone and 
in our securitisation books. We proactively tested 
contingency plans intended to respond to potential 
adverse scenarios. 
In 2011, our European Credit and Rates 
business reported significantly lower trading 
revenue as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt 
markets escalated, particularly in the second half of 
the year. Increased risk aversion and limited client 
activity, led to a significant widening of credit 
spreads on certain eurozone sovereign and 
corporate bonds, resulting in trading losses and an 
increase in days of negative revenue. 
T rading and non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
The following table provides an overview of the 
reporting of risks within this section: 
 
 Portfolio 
  Trading   Non-trading 
Risk type    
Foreign exchange and 
commodity ........................  VAR   VAR
54
Interest rate ............................  VAR   VAR
55
Equity ....................................  VAR   Sensitivity 
Credit spread .........................  VAR   VAR
56
For footnotes, see page 185.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Trading and non-trading portfolios 
 
 
164 
Value at risk of the trading and non-trading 
portfolios 
Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was 
Value at risk 
(Audited) 
 2011  2010
57
 US$m  US$m 
At 31 December .................... 367.0   371.6 
Average ................................. 301.6   357.5 
Minimum .............................. 231.5   205.3 
Maximum .............................. 404.3   556.3 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Group total V AR was lower at the end of 2011 
than at the end of 2010 despite an increase in 
volatility in the historical scenarios used in the 
V AR calculation. This was mainly driven by the 
reduction in sovereign, agency and bank eurozone 
exposures. Further details are given in ‘Exposures 
to countries in the eurozone’ on page 113. 
We routinely validate the accuracy of our V AR 
models by back-testing the actual daily profit and 
loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items 
such as fees and commissions, against the 
corresponding V AR numbers. Statistically, we 
would expect to see losses in excess of V AR only 
1% of the time over a one-year period. The actual 
number of excesses over this period can therefore 
be used to gauge how well the models are 
performing. In 2011, there was one loss exception 
at a Group level. This is consistent with what is 
statistically expected from the model. 
The major contributor to Group trading and 
non-trading V AR was GB&M. Our Group daily 
V AR, both trading and non-trading, was as follows: 
 
Daily VAR (trading and non-trading) (US$m)  Daily revenue 
(Unaudited) 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200
250
300
350
400
450
Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11
 
 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Average daily revenue ................... 42.4   49.3 
Standard deviation
58
 ...................... 35.1   37.8 
Ranges of most frequent  
daily revenues ........................... 30 to 40   30 to 40 
  days   days 
–  daily occurrences .................. 42   41 
Days of negative revenue .............. 23   9 
 
Daily distribution of Global Markets’ trading, Balance Sheet Management and other trading revenues
59
 
(Unaudited) 
2011  2010 
Number of days  Number of days 
1
0
2
5
0
1
7
4
3
11
17
29
42
29
31
28
14 14 14
6
11
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
-90 -80 -70 -60 -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 150 160
 
 
1
3
2
3
4
6
12
17
32
37
40
41
23
15 15
4
2
3
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
-30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 440 450
 
Revenues (US$m) 
 
Revenues (US$m) 
 Profit and loss frequency   Profit and loss frequency 
For footnotes, see page 185.   
 
165 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
VAR by risk type for trading intent activities
60
 
(Audited) 
 
 Foreign 
 exchange and 
 commodity 
 
 Interest
 rate  Equity 
 Credit
 spread 
 Portfolio 
 diversification
61
   Total
62
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011 .......  18.6  49.4  7.4  75.2  (32.3)   118.3 
At 31 December 2010 ........  24.9  49.5  13.0  39.1  (45.6)   80.8 
Average         
2011 ...............................  16.8   54.2  8.0  57.3  (34.4)   101.8 
2010 ...............................  27.2   51.6  9.2  62.0  (36.5)   113.4 
Minimum         
2011 ...............................  7.6   30.1  2.5  34.7  –   62.2 
2010 ...............................  8.0   34.7  2.9  33.7  –   55.0 
Maximum         
2011 ...............................  31.9   80.2  17.2  103.2  –   143.9 
2010 ...............................  62.9   88.9  21.6  102.5  –   212.2 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
The V AR for trading intent activity within Global 
Markets at 31 December 2011 was US$118.3m 
(2010: US$80.8m). The increase was mainly driven 
by the credit spread asset class, due to a rise in the 
volatilities in the historical scenarios used in the 
V AR calculation. 
Credit spread risk 
(Audited) 
Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative 
transactions entered into by Global Banking in 
order to manage the risk concentrations within our 
corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital 
efficiency. At 31 December 2011, the credit V AR 
on these transactions was US$6.6m (2010: 
US$12.3m). The mark-to-market of these 
transactions is reflected in the income statement.  
Gap risk 
During 2011 gap risk continued to be managed 
down. We did not incur any material gap loss in 
2011. 
Non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Available-for-sale debt securities 
At 31 December 2011, the sensitivity of equity 
capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads 
on our available-for-sale debt securities, including 
the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within 
our balance sheet, based on credit spread V AR, was 
US$389m (2010: US$299m). This sensitivity is 
calculated before taking into account losses which 
would have been absorbed by the capital note 
holders. Excluding the gross exposure for SICs 
consolidated in our balance sheet this exposure 
reduced to US$325m (2010: US$264m). (Credit 
spread V AR for available-for-sale debt securities 
is included in the Group total V AR). 
At 31 December 2011, the capital note holders 
would absorb the first US$2.3bn (2010: US$2.2bn) 
of any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur 
any equity losses. 
Equity securities classified as available for sale 
Fair value of equity securities 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 US$bn US$bn 
Private equity holdings
63
 ..............  3.0   2.8 
Funds invested for short-term  
cash management ....................  0.2   0.5 
Investment to facilitate ongoing 
business
64
 .................................  1.1   1.0 
Other strategic investments .........  2.9   3.7 
  7.2   8.0 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Potential new commitments are subject to risk 
appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical 
concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the 
portfolio. Regular reviews are performed to 
substantiate the valuation of the investments within 
the portfolio and investments held to facilitate 
ongoing business, such as holdings in government-
sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.  
The fair value of the constituents of equity 
securities classified as available for sale can 
fluctuate considerably. A 10% reduction in their 
value at 31 December 2011 would have reduced our 
equity by US$0.7bn (2010: US$0.8bn). For details of 
the impairment incurred on available-for-sale equity  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Structured FX / Sensitivity of NII / DBS / Additional market risk measures  
 
 
166 
securities, see ‘Securitisation exposures and other 
structured products’ on page 149. 
Structural foreign exchange exposures  
(Unaudited) 
Our policies and procedures for managing structural 
foreign exchange exposures are described on 
page 201. 
For details of structural foreign exchange 
exposures see Note 36 on the Financial Statements. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the effect on our future net 
interest income of an incremental 25 basis points 
parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at 
the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months 
from 1 January 2012. Assuming no management 
actions, a sequence of such rises would increase 
planned net interest income for 2012 by US$1,571m 
(2011: US$882m), while a sequence of such falls 
would decrease planned net interest income by 
US$1,909m (2011: US$1,525m). These figures 
incorporate the effect of any option features in the 
underlying exposures. 
 
Sensitivity of projected net interest income
65
 
(Unaudited) 
 
 US dollar 
 bloc 
 US$m  
 Rest of
 Americas 
 bloc
 US$m 
 Hong Kong
 dollar
 bloc
 US$m 
 Rest of
 Asia
 bloc
 US$m 
 Sterling 
 bloc 
 US$m  
 Euro 
 bloc 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Change in 2012 projected net 
interest income arising from  
a shift in yield curves of:        
+25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ...... 209 62 263 232 729 76 1,571 
–25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ...... (465) (59) (443) (166) (708) (68) (1,909)
Change in 2011 projected net 
interest income arising from  
a shift in yield curves of:        
+25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ...... 164 72 191 245 292 (82) 882 
–25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ...... (550) (68) (280) (143) (546) 62 (1,525)
For footnote, see page 185. 
The interest rate sensitivities set out in the 
table above are illustrative only and are based on 
simplified scenarios. The limitations of this analysis 
are discussed in the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
The main drivers of the year-on-year changes in 
the sensitivity of the Group’s net interest income to 
the change in rates shown in the table above were 
lower implied yield curves, the potential for wider 
margins in a rising interest rate scenario, and a 
reduction in the funding requirement of the HSBC 
Bank plc trading book. Net interest income and its 
associated sensitivity as reflected in the table above 
include the expense of internally funding trading 
assets, while related revenue is reported in ‘Net 
trading income’. 
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves 
to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by 
assessing the expected reduction in valuation of 
available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges 
due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100 
basis points in all yield curves. The table below 
describes the sensitivity of our reported reserves to 
these movements and the maximum and minimum 
month-end figures during the year:   
 
167 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 
(Unaudited) 
 US$m 
Maximum 
impact  
US$m  
Minimum
impact
US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves ...................................................... (5,594) (6,178)  (5,594)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity .............................................................. (3.5%) (3.9%)  (3.5%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves ...................................................... 5,397 6,411  5,397 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity .............................................................. 3.4% 4.0%  3.4% 
     
At 31 December 2010     
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves ...................................................... (6,162) (6,162)  (3,096)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity .............................................................. (4.2%) (4.2%)  (2.1%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves ...................................................... 6,174 6,174  3,108 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity .............................................................. 4.2% 4.2%  2.1% 
 
The sensitivities above are illustrative only and 
are based on simplified scenarios. The table shows 
the potential sensitivity of reserves to valuation 
changes in available-for-sale portfolios and from 
cash flow hedges following the specified shifts in 
yield curves. These particular exposures form only 
a part of our overall interest rate exposures. The 
accounting treatment under IFRSs of our remaining 
interest rate exposures, while economically largely 
offsetting the exposures shown in the above table, 
does not require revaluation movements to go to 
reserves.  
The year-on-year decrease in sensitivity of 
reserves is due to a decrease in government bonds 
held in Balance Sheet Management, which are 
accounted for on an available-for-sale basis. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension 
schemes to the extent that the obligations of the 
schemes are not fully matched by assets with 
determinable cash flows. 
HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
  2011   2010 
  US$bn   US$bn 
Liabilities (present value) .......... 35.0   32.6 
  %   % 
Assets:    
Equities ...................................... 15   20 
Debt securities ........................... 73   66 
Other (including property) ......... 12   14 
  100   100 
For details of our defined benefit schemes, see 
Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension 
risk management, see page 184. 
Additional market risk measures applicable 
only to the parent company 
(Audited) 
The principal tools used in the management of 
market risk are V AR for foreign exchange rate risk, 
and the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net 
interest income to future changes in yield curves and 
interest rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate 
risk. 
Foreign exchange risk 
Total foreign exchange V AR arising within HSBC 
Holdings in 2011 was as follows: 
HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VAR 
(Audited) 
 Foreign exchange 
  2011 
 US$m 
  2010 
 US$m 
At 31 December ................................  47.7   40.4 
Average .............................................  43.3   56.6 
Minimum ..........................................  38.2   40.2 
Maximum ..........................................  48.3   83.2 
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from 
loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not 
denominated in the functional currency of either the 
provider or the recipient and which are accounted 
for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying 
amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate 
differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings’ 
income statement. These loans, and the associated 
foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a 
Group consolidated basis.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Additional market risk measures  
 
 
168 
Sensitivity of net interest income  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income 
sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting 
the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk 
management appropriate to a financial services 
holding company. The table below sets out the effect 
on HSBC Holdings’ future net interest income over a 
5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point 
parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at  
the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months 
from 1 January 2012. 
Assuming no management actions, a sequence 
of such rises would decrease planned net interest 
income for the next five years by US$269m (2011: 
increase of US$155m), while a sequence of such 
falls would increase planned net interest income by 
US$248m (2011: decrease of US$155m). These 
figures incorporate the effect of any option features 
in the underlying exposures.  
 
Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest income to interest rate movements
65
 
(Audited) 
US dollar
bloc
Sterling
bloc
Euro 
bloc 
 
Total
 
US$m US$m US$m US$m
Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December  
arising from a shift in yield curves  
    
2011     
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................... (13) 11 4 2 
2-3 years ................................................................................. (161) 33 33 (95)
4-5 years ................................................................................. (244) 21 47 (176)
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................... 14 (11) (4) (1)
2-3 years ................................................................................. 127 (27) (27) 73 
4-5 years ................................................................................. 244 (21) (47) 176 
     
2010     
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................... (6) 19 11 24 
2-3 years ................................................................................. (56) 75 62 81 
4-5 years ................................................................................. (79) 71 58 50 
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................... 6 (19) (11) (24)
2-3 years ................................................................................. 56 (75) (62) (81)
4-5 years ................................................................................. 79 (71) (58) (50)
For footnote, see page 185. 
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above 
are illustrative only and are based on simplified 
scenarios. The figures represent hypothetical 
movements in net interest income based on our 
projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ 
current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes 
to that profile during the next five years. The main 
driver of the change in the US dollar projected net 
interest income sensitivity was a change in the 
assumptions for projected capital funding. Changes to 
assumptions concerning the risk profile over the next 
five years can have a significant impact on the net  
interest income sensitivity for that period. However, 
the figures do not take into account the effect of 
actions that could be taken to mitigate this interest rate 
risk. 
Interest rate repricing gap table 
The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities 
issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the 
Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis. 
The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses 
the full term structure of interest rate mismatches 
within HSBC Holdings’ balance sheet.     
169 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
 
 Total 
 Up to
 1 year  1–5 years  5–10 years  
 More than 
 10 years  
 Non–
 interest
  bearing 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Cash at bank and in hand:       
– balances with HSBC undertakings ................ 316 280 – – – 36 
Derivatives ............................................................ 3,568 – – – – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ........ 28,048 25,373 1,175 279 603 618 
Financial investments ........................................... 1,078 – 300 731 – 47 
Investments in subsidiaries ................................... 90,621 232 875 – – 89,514 
Other assets ........................................................... 231 – – – – 231 
Total assets ............................................................ 123,862 25,885 2,350 1,010 603 94,014 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ................ (2,479) (2,260) – – – (219)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values ....... (21,151) (2,694) (6,423) (6,157) (5,156) (721)
Derivatives ............................................................ (1,067) – – – – (1,067)
Debt securities in issue ......................................... (2,613) – (1,617) – (1,006) 10 
Other liabilities ..................................................... (911) – – – – (911)
Subordinated liabilities ......................................... (12,450) (776) (774) (2,070) (8,671) (159)
Total equity ........................................................... (82,183) – – – – (82,183)
Other non-interest bearing liabilities .................... (1,008) – – – – (1,008)
Total liabilities and equity .................................... (123,862) (5,730) (8,814) (8,227) (14,833) (86,258)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity .......................................................... – (17,945) 6,405 5,749 5,048 743 
Net interest rate risk gap ....................................... – 2,210 (59) (1,468) (9,182) 8,499 
Cumulative interest rate gap ................................. – 2,210 2,151 683 (8,499) – 
       
At 31 December 2010       
Cash at bank and in hand:       
– balances with HSBC undertakings ................ 459 339 – – – 120 
Derivatives ............................................................ 2,327 – – – – 2,327 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ........ 21,238 19,351 – 290 605 992 
Financial investments ........................................... 2,025 – 300 900 731 94 
Investments in subsidiaries ................................... 92,899 1,785 875 1,164 – 89,075 
Other assets ........................................................... 393 – – – – 393 
Total assets ............................................................ 119,341 21,475 1,175 2,354 1,336 93,001 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ................ (2,932) (2,266) – – – (666)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values ....... (16,288) – (7,184) (4,740) (3,509) (855)
Derivatives ............................................................ (827) – – – – (827)
Debt securities in issue ......................................... (2,668) – (1,664) – (1,004) – 
Other liabilities ..................................................... (1,232) – – – – (1,232)
Subordinated liabilities ......................................... (13,313) (750) (1,579) (2,140) (8,680) (164)
Total equity ........................................................... (81,331) – – (7,450) – (73,881)
Other non-interest bearing liabilities .................... (750) – – – – (750)
Total liabilities and equity .................................... (119,341) (3,016) (10,427) (14,330) (13,193) (78,375)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity .......................................................... – (15,302) 7,221 4,403 3,409 269 
Net interest rate risk gap ....................................... – 3,157 (2,031) (7,573) (8,448) 14,895 
Cumulative interest rate gap ................................. – 3,157 1,126 (6,447) (14,895) – 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Operational risk / Insurance > HSBC’s bancassurance model / Insurance risk in 2011 
 
 
170 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect 
of our business, and covers a wide spectrum 
of issues, in particular legal, compliance, 
security and fraud. Losses arising from 
unauthorised activities, error, omission, 
inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or 
external events all fall within the definition 
of operational risk. 
HSBC has continued to enhance its operational risk 
management framework including the use of the risk 
and control assessment process that provides 
business areas and functions with a forward-looking 
view of operational risks and an assessment of the 
effectiveness of controls, and a tracking mechanism 
for action plans so that they can proactively manage 
operational risks within acceptable levels. 
There were no material changes to our policies 
and procedures for the management of operational 
risk in 2011. 
 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding operational risk is 
provided in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 188. 
 
Operational risk in 2011 
During 2011, our top and emerging risk analysis 
included a number of risks which were of an 
operational nature:  
• challenges to achieving our strategy in a 
downturn: businesses and geographical regions 
have prioritised strategy and annual operating 
plans to reflect current economic conditions. 
Performance against plan is monitored through a 
number of means including the use of balanced 
scorecards and by performance reporting at all 
relevant management committees; 
• internet crime and fraud: increased monitoring 
and additional controls including internet 
banking controls have been implemented to 
enhance our defences against external attack 
and to reduce the level of losses in these areas; 
• social media risk: compensating controls have 
been implemented by several Group companies 
to attempt to reduce our exposure to these risks, 
including: 
− an HSBC presence has been created in 
several of the larger social media networks 
in order to provide an official point of 
contact for HSBC customers and 
stakeholders; and 
− monitoring has been implemented in some 
entities to protect our brand identity and 
pro-active communication has been 
implemented in some geographies targeted 
at broadcasting to customers and media 
organisations; 
• level of change creating operational complexity: 
Risk functions are engaged with business 
management in business transformation 
initiatives to ensure robust internal controls are 
maintained, including through participation in 
all relevant management committees; and 
• information security: significant investment has 
already been made in enhancing controls 
including increased training to raise staff 
awareness of the requirements, enhanced 
controls around data access and heightened 
monitoring of information flows. This area will 
continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives to 
strengthen the control environment. 
Other operational risks are also monitored and 
managed through use of the operational risk 
management framework including investments made 
to further improve the resilience of our payments 
infrastructure. 
There were no material losses relating to fraud 
and security during the year. 
Further information on the nature of these risks 
is provided in ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 99.   
 
171 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk management of insurance 
operations 
(Audited) 
HSBC’s bancassurance model ........................................... 171
Insurance risk in 2011 ....................................................... 171
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing  
subsidiaries .................................................................... 173
Financial risks .................................................................... 175
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business ... 181
Economic assumptions ...................................................... 182
Non-economic assumptions .............................................. 182
 
The majority of the risk in our insurance 
business derives from manufacturing 
activities and can be categorised as 
insurance risk and financial risk. Insurance 
risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of 
loss transferred from the holder of the 
insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). 
Financial risks include market risk, credit 
risk and liquidity risk. 
 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of insurance risk, 
including the risks relating to different life and non-
life products in 2011. 
 
 
A summary of our policies and practices 
regarding insurance risk, and the main 
contracts we manufacture, is provided in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
 
HSBC’s bancassurance model 
We operate a bancassurance model which provides 
insurance products for customers with whom we 
have a banking relationship. Insurance products are 
sold through all global businesses, mainly utilising 
retail branches, the internet and phone centres. 
RBWM customers attract the majority of sales 
and comprise the majority of policyholders. 
Many of these insurance products are 
manufactured by our subsidiaries. Where we have 
scale, this allows us to retain the risks, within our 
appetite, and associated rewards with writing 
insurance contracts as both the underwriting profit 
and the commission paid by the manufacturer to the 
bank distribution channel are kept within the Group. 
Where we do not have the risk appetite or 
operational scale to be effective, third parties are 
engaged to manufacture insurance products for sale 
through our banking network. We work with a 
limited number of market-leading partners to provide  
the products. These arrangements earn us a 
commission. 
Our bancassurance business operates in all six 
of our geographical regions with over 30 legal 
entities, the majority of which are subsidiaries of 
banking legal entities, manufacturing insurance 
products. 
The insurance contracts we sell primarily relate 
to core underlying banking activities, such as savings 
and investment products, and credit life products. 
Our manufacturing business concentrates on 
personal lines, e.g. contracts written for individuals. 
This focus on the higher volume, lower individual 
value personal lines contributes to diversifying risk. 
Insurance risk in 2011 
The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost 
of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and 
benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of 
premiums received and investment income. The cost 
of claims and benefits can be influenced by many 
factors, including mortality and morbidity 
experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the 
policy has a savings element, the performance of the 
assets held to support the liabilities. 
In respect of financial risks, subsidiaries 
manufacturing products with guarantees are usually 
exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity 
prices to the extent that the market exposure cannot 
be managed by utilising any discretionary 
participation (or bonus) features (‘DPF’) within 
the policy.  
This section provides disclosures on the 
management of financial risks specific to insurance 
operations, including credit risk, liquidity risk and 
market risk. The assets of the insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the 
consolidated Group credit risk disclosures. The 
consolidated Group liquidity and market risk 
management disclosures exclude insurance 
operations as these risks are managed within the 
insurance entities using methodologies and processes 
appropriate to these insurance activities, but remain 
subject to oversight at Group level. Risk 
management disclosures specific to the insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries are provided below. 
The following tables analyse our insurance risk 
exposures by geographical region and by type of 
business. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Insurance risk > Insurance risk in 2011 / Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
 
 
172 
Analysis of life insurance risk – liabilities to policyholders
66
 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011 
Life (non-linked) ................................................... 1,163 21,460 1,227 982 2,094 26,926 
Insurance contracts with DPF
67
 ........................ 335 20,109 338 – – 20,782
Credit life .......................................................... 219 – 58 34 – 311
Annuities .......................................................... 517 – 78 741 1,546 2,882
Term assurance and other long-term  
contracts ....................................................... 92 1,351 753 207 548 2,951
Life (linked) .......................................................... 2,508 3,393 476 – 4,833 11,210 
Investment contracts with DPF
67,68 
....................... 21,477 – 11 – – 21,488 
Insurance liabilities to policyholders .................... 25,148 24,853 1,714 982 6,927 59,624 
         
At 31 December 2010       
Life (non-linked) ................................................... 1,679 17,989 789 1,004 2,122 23,583 
Insurance contracts with DPF
67 
........................ 327 17,203 278 – – 17,808
Credit life .......................................................... 565 – 72 36 2 675
Annuities .......................................................... 471 – 31 760 1,622 2,884
Term assurance and other long-term  
contracts ....................................................... 316 786 408 208 498 2,216
Life (linked) .......................................................... 2,274 3,235 485 – 4,502 10,496 
Investment contracts with DPF
67,68 
....................... 22,052 – 22 – – 22,074 
Insurance liabilities to policyholders .................... 26,005 21,224 1,296 1,004 6,624 56,153 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Our most significant life insurance products are 
investment contracts with DPF issued in France, 
insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong 
and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, 
Hong Kong and the UK. 
 
Analysis of non-life insurance risk – net written insurance premiums
66,69
 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
2011       
Accident and health .............................................. 23 186 8 – 39 256 
Motor .................................................................... – 17 25 – 328 370 
Fire and other damage .......................................... 5 29 13 30 29 106 
Liability ................................................................. 1 16 5 – 1 23 
Credit (non-life) .................................................... 6 – – 48 1 55 
Marine, aviation and transport .............................. – 10 3 – 25 38 
Other non-life insurance contracts ....................... 7 39 1 7 91 145 
Total net written insurance premiums .................. 42 297 55 85 514 993 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders ............................ 56 (127) (26) (22) (231) (350)
         
2010       
Accident and health .............................................. 78 174 8 3  37  300 
Motor .................................................................... – 15 28 – 267  310 
Fire and other damage .......................................... 38 29 11 16  22  116 
Liability ................................................................. – 20 4 – 2  26 
Credit (non-life) .................................................... 25 – – 53  2  80 
Marine, aviation and transport .............................. 3 10 4 – 18  35 
Other non-life insurance contracts ....................... 20 39 1 9  84  153 
Total net written insurance premiums .................. 164 287 56 81  432  1,020 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders ............................ (169) (117) (25) (13) (201) (525)  
 
173 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
2009       
Accident and health .............................................. 94 160 7 3  23  287 
Motor .................................................................... 123 14 20 – 234  391 
Fire and other damage .......................................... 72 22 8 16  22  140 
Liability ................................................................. – 15 4 – 2  21 
Credit (non-life) .................................................... 35 – – 86  – 121 
Marine, aviation and transport .............................. 7 9 4 – 17  37 
Other non-life insurance contracts ....................... 24 32 1 12  58  127 
Total net written insurance premiums .................. 355 252 44 117  356  1,124 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders ............................ (748) (107) (17) (96) (155) (1,123)
For footnotes, see page 185. 
(Audited) 
Our motor business is written predominantly in 
Argentina. The UK motor book continued to run off 
and the business was sold in September 2011.  
Our accident and health and fire and other 
damage to property contracts are written in all 
regions but mainly in Hong Kong.  
Credit non-life insurance, which was historically 
originated in conjunction with the provision of loans, 
is concentrated in the US. 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries  
(Audited) 
A principal tool we use to manage our exposure to 
insurance risk, in particular for life insurance 
contracts, is asset and liability matching. 
The tables below show the composition of assets 
and liabilities by contract and by geographical region 
and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to 
cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at 
the end of 2011. 
 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract 
(Audited) 
 Insurance contracts Investment contracts    
 
 With 
 DPF 
 
 Unit- 
 linked 
 
 Annu-
 ities 
 Term 
 assur- 
 ance
70
 
 Non-life 
 With 
 DPF
68
 Unit-
 linked 
 
 Other 
 
 Other 
 assets
71
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011           
Financial assets .................... 20,520 10,355 2,531 3,398 1,656 20,745 7,843 4,103 7,219 78,370 
– trading assets .................. –  – 3 – 24 – – –  – 27
– financial assets 
designated at fair value  1,730  10,101 426 594 206 5,491 7,191 1,515  1,616 28,870
– derivatives ...................... 23  1 – – – 231 7 89  7 358
– financial investments ..... 15,523  1 1,778 2,540 791 13,732 – 1,913  4,008 40,286
– other financial assets ...... 3,244  252 324 264 635 1,291 645 586  1,588 8,829
Reinsurance assets ............... 12 903 441 196 250 – – – 42 1,844 
PVIF
72
 .................................. – – – – – – – – 4,092 4,092 
Other assets and  
investment properties ........ 384 6 14 188 169 744 28 34 753 2,320 
Total assets ........................... 20,916 11,264 2,986 3,782 2,075 21,489 7,871 4,137 12,106 86,626 
           
Liabilities under investment 
contracts:           
– designated at fair value .. – – – – – – 7,813 3,586 – 11,399 
– carried at amortised cost  – – – – – – – 435 – 435 
Liabilities under  
insurance contracts ............ 20,782 11,210 2,882 3,262 1,635 21,488 – – – 61,259 
Deferred tax ......................... 15 – 21 6 1 – – – 931 974 
Other liabilities .................... – – – – – – – – 1,930 1,930 
Total liabilities ..................... 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 2,861 75,997 
Total equity .......................... – – – – – – – – 10,629 10,629 
Total equity and  
liabilities
73
 ........................ 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 13,490 86,626 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Insurance risk > Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
 
 
174 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract (continued) 
 Insurance contracts Investment contracts    
 
 With 
 DPF 
 
 Unit- 
 linked 
 
 Annu-
 ities 
 Term 
 assur- 
 ance
70
 
 Non-life 
 With 
 DPF
68
 Unit- 
 linked 
 
 Other 
 
 Other 
 assets
71
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010           
Financial assets .................... 17,665  9,763  2,615 2,671  2,231 21,511 8,338 3,927  7,157  75,878 
– trading assets .................. –  – – – 11 – – –  – 11 
– financial assets 
designated at fair value  1,206   9,499  413 523  180 5,961 7,624  1,486   1,452  28,344 
– derivatives ...................... 53   – 1 6  – 229 7  1   4  301 
– financial investments ..... 14,068   – 1,847 1,661  692 14,465 – 1,804   4,495  39,032 
– other financial assets ...... 2,338   264  354 481  1,348 856 707  636   1,206  8,190 
Reinsurance assets ............... 10  760  400 263  432 – – – 79  1,944 
PVIF
72
 .................................. – – – – – – – – 3,440  3,440 
Other assets and  
investment properties ........ 189  6  21 398  213 565 14 56  712  2,174 
Total assets ........................... 17,864  10,529  3,036 3,332  2,876 22,076 8,352 3,983  11,388  83,436 
           
Liabilities under investment 
contracts:           
– designated at fair value .. – – – – – – 8,321 3,379  – 11,700 
– carried at amortised cost  – – – – – – – 439  – 439 
Liabilities under  
insurance contracts ............ 17,808  10,496  2,884 2,891  2,456 22,074 – – – 58,609 
Deferred tax ......................... 11  – 20 4  6 – – 1  793  835 
Other liabilities .................... – – – – – – – – 2,075  2,075 
Total liabilities ..................... 17,819  10,496  2,904 2,895  2,462 22,074 8,321 3,819  2,868  73,658 
Total equity .......................... – – – – – – – – 9,778  9,778 
Total equity and  
liabilities
73
 ........................ 17,819  10,496  2,904 2,895  2,462 22,074 8,321 3,819  12,646  83,436 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region
66 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Financial assets ..................................................... 34,163 30,126 2,093 2,414 9,574 78,370 
– trading assets ................................................. – – – – 27 27
– financial assets designated at fair value ........ 15,583 5,875 1,155 – 6,257 28,870
– derivatives ..................................................... 244 114 – – – 358
– financial investments ..................................... 15,531 19,858 617 1,846 2,434 40,286
– other financial assets ..................................... 2,805 4,279 321 568 856 8,829
Reinsurance assets ................................................ 746 912 39 19 128 1,844 
PVIF
72
 ................................................................... 1,097 2,322 282 65 326 4,092 
Other assets and investment properties ................ 909 946 31 24 410 2,320 
Total assets ........................................................... 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 
Liabilities under investment contracts:       
– designated at fair value .................................. 6,961 4,405 33 – – 11,399 
– carried at amortised cost ................................ – – – – 435 435 
Liabilities under insurance contracts .................... 25,795 25,160 1,802 1,079 7,423 61,259 
Deferred tax .......................................................... 352 408 60 28 126 974 
Other liabilities ..................................................... 1,200 269 69 13 379 1,930 
Total liabilities ...................................................... 34,308 30,242 1,964 1,120 8,363 75,997 
Total equity ........................................................... 2,607 4,064 481 1,402 2,075 10,629 
Total equity and liabilities
73
 ................................. 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 
   
175 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010       
Financial assets ..................................................... 36,233 26,278 1,651 2,548 9,168 75,878 
– trading assets ................................................. – – – – 11 11
– financial assets designated at fair value ........ 16,133 5,550 1,106 – 5,555 28,344
– derivatives ..................................................... 238 50 12 – 1 301
– financial investments ..................................... 16,758 17,299 247 2,006 2,722 39,032
– other financial assets ..................................... 3,104 3,379 286 542 879 8,190
Reinsurance assets ................................................ 974 770 33 23 144 1,944 
PVIF
72
 ................................................................... 1,102 1,734 165 141 298 3,440 
Other assets and investment properties ................ 1,060 743 26 9 336 2,174 
Total assets ........................................................... 39,369 29,525 1,875 2,721 9,946 83,436 
Liabilities under investment contracts:       
– designated at fair value .................................. 7,359 4,300 41 – – 11,700 
– carried at amortised cost ................................ – – – – 439 439 
Liabilities under insurance contracts .................... 27,475 21,515 1,381 1,169 7,069 58,609 
Deferred tax .......................................................... 375 298 39 – 123 835 
Other liabilities ..................................................... 1,354 289 58 12 362 2,075 
Total liabilities ...................................................... 36,563 26,402 1,519 1,181 7,993 73,658 
Total equity ........................................................... 2,806 3,123 356 1,540 1,953 9,778 
Total equity and liabilities
73
 ................................. 39,369 29,525 1,875 2,721 9,946 83,436 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
 
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
The following table analyses the assets held in 
our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at 
31 December 2011 by type of contract, and provides 
a view of the exposure to financial risk. For linked 
contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which 
are determined by reference to the value of the 
investments supporting the policies, we typically 
designate assets at fair value; for non-linked 
contracts, the classification of the assets is driven 
by the nature of the underlying contract. 
Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited) 
  Life linked  Life non-linked  Non-life  Other   
  contracts
74
 contracts
75
 insurance
76
 assets
71
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011      
Trading assets      
Debt securities ............................................. – 3 – – 3 
Equity securities .......................................... – – 24 – 24 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......... 17,292 9,756 206 1,616 28,870 
Treasury bills ............................................... 4 107 – – 111
Debt securities ............................................. 6,823 3,198 206 795 11,022
Equity securities .......................................... 10,465 6,451 – 821 17,737
Financial investments      
Held-to-maturity: debt securities...................... – 17,506 175 1,300 18,981 
Available-for-sale: ........................................... 1 17,980 616 2,708 21,305 
– Treasury bills ............................................ – – – – –
– other eligible bills ..................................... – – – 50 50
– debt securities ........................................... – 17,963 599 2,520 21,082
– equity securities ........................................ 1 17 17 138 173
Derivatives ....................................................... 8 343 – 7 358 
Other financial assets
77
 .................................... 897 5,709 635 1,588 8,829 
Total financial assets
73
 ..................................... 18,198 51,297 1,656 7,219 78,370 
 
   
176 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries (continued) 
  Life linked  Life non-linked  Non-life  Other   
  contracts
74
 contracts
75
 insurance
76
 assets
71
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010      
Trading assets      
Debt securities ............................................. – – 11 – 11 
Equity securities .......................................... – – – – – 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......... 17,123 9,589 180 1,452  28,344 
Treasury bills ............................................... 10 119 – 10  139 
Debt securities ............................................. 6,660 3,281 180 847  10,968 
Equity securities .......................................... 10,453 6,189 – 595  17,237 
Financial investments      
Held-to-maturity: debt securities ..................... – 16,015 152 908  17,075 
Available-for-sale: ........................................... – 17,830 540 3,587  21,957 
– Treasury bills ............................................ – 10 – 31  41 
– other eligible bills ..................................... – 36 140 217  393 
– debt securities ........................................... – 17,776 391 3,210  21,377 
– equity securities ........................................ – 8 9 129  146 
Derivatives ....................................................... 7 290 – 4  301 
Other financial assets
77
 .................................... 971 4,665 1,348 1,206  8,190 
Total financial assets
73
 ..................................... 18,101 48,389 2,231 7,157  75,878 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Approximately 65.2% of financial assets were 
invested in debt securities at 31 December 2011 
(2010: 65.1%) with 22.9% (2010: 22.9%) invested 
in equity securities.  
In life linked insurance, premium income less 
charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets. We 
manage the financial risks of this product on behalf 
of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in 
segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities 
are linked. These assets represented 23.2% of the 
total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries at the end of 2011 (2010: 23.9%). 
Market risk 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises when mismatches occur between 
product liabilities and the investment assets which 
back them. For example, mismatches between asset 
and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest 
rate risk. 
Long-term insurance or investment products 
may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed. Where 
mismatches exist as a result of current yields falling 
below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period the 
risk that shareholder capital is required to meet 
liabilities to policyholders may increase. The table 
below shows, in respect of each category of 
guarantee, the total liabilities to policyholders 
established for guaranteed products manufactured by 
our insurance subsidiaries. The table also shows the 
range of investment returns (net of operating costs) 
on the assets supporting these products and the 
implied investment returns that would enable the 
business to meet the guarantees. 
 
Liabilities to policyholders
78
 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 
 Amount of 
 reserve 
 Investment 
 returns 
 implied by 
  guarantee
73
 Current
  yields 
 Amount of
 reserve  
 Investment 
 returns 
 implied by 
  guarantee
73
  
 Current 
 yields 
  US$m  %  %  US$m  %   % 
Annuities in payment ...............................  1,414  0.0 – 9.6  4.2 – 25.2  1,491   0.0 – 8.5   1.5 – 16.2 
Deferred annuities ...................................  175  0.0 – 6.0  3.2 – 22.7  642   0.0 – 6.0   2.1 – 16.8 
Immediate annuities .................................  538  6.0 – 12.0  5.3 – 5.4  532   6.0 – 12.0   5.5 – 5.5 
Annual return ...........................................  20,465  0.0 – 2.5  0.0 – 6.9  17,525   0.0 – 2.5   0.0 – 5.0 
Annual return ...........................................  3,849  2.5 – 4.5  3.3 – 10.0  2,455   2.5 – 4.5   1.8 – 5.9 
Annual return ...........................................  163  4.5 – 6.0  6.4 – 6.5  841   4.5 – 6.0   6.1 – 8.5 
Capital ......................................................  17,400   –   2.3 – 7.8  15,445   –   2.0 – 4.0 
For footnotes, see page 185.    
177 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The following table illustrates the effects of 
various interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange 
rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the 
year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries.  
Where appropriate, we include the impact of the 
stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity 
tests. The relationship between the values of certain 
assets and liabilities and the risk factors may be non-
linear and, therefore, the results disclosed cannot be 
extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different 
levels of stress. The sensitivities are stated before 
allowance for management actions which may 
mitigate the effect of changes in market rates, and 
for any factors such as policyholder behaviour that 
may change in response to changes in market risk. 
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to risk factors 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 
 Effect on 
 profit for 
 the year 
 Effect on
 total
 equity 
 Effect on  
 profit for  
 the year  
 Effect on 
 total 
 equity 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
+ 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves ............................. 108 (178) 72 (132)
– 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves ............................. (115) 191 (86) 131 
10% increase in equity prices ......................................................... 106 106 76 76 
10% decrease in equity prices ........................................................ (164) (164) (76) (76)
10% increase in US dollar exchange rate  
compared to all currencies ......................................................... 31 31 21 21 
10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate  
compared to all currencies ......................................................... (31) (31) (21) (21)
Sensitivity to credit spread increases ............................................. (30) (75) (31) (74)
 
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Our exposure to credit risk products is included in 
the tables showing exposures to life and non-life 
insurance risk on pages 172 and 173.  
Credit risk can give rise to losses through 
default and can lead to volatility in our income 
statement and balance sheet figures through 
movements in credit spreads, principally on the 
US$44.4bn (2010: US$43.3bn) non-linked bond 
portfolio.  
As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net 
profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the 
effects of increases in credit spreads is similar to 
2010. The balance and related movement are small 
because about 80% of the debt securities held by our 
insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held 
to maturity or available for sale, and consequently 
any changes in the fair value of these financial 
investments, absent impairment, would have no 
effect on the profit after tax. We calculate the 
sensitivity using simplified assumptions based on a 
one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year 
period. A confidence level of 99%, consistent with 
our Group VAR, is applied. Credit spreads have 
generally widened from the levels observed at the 
end of 2010; however, the expected increase this 
would generally cause has been offset by a 
refinement made to the calculation to better reflect 
how the risk is shared with the policyholder. 
Consequently, the sensitivity reported is consistent 
with that seen in 2010. 
Credit quality 
(Audited) 
The following table presents an analysis of treasury 
bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within 
our insurance business by measures of credit quality. 
The five credit quality classifications are defined in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 188. Only assets 
supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance 
and investment contracts and shareholders’ funds 
are included in the table as financial risk on assets 
supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne 
by the policyholder. 86.6% (2010: 90.5%) of the 
assets included in the table are invested in 
investments rated as strong. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Insurance risk > Market risk 
 
 
178 
Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited) 
 Neither past due nor impaired   
 Strong  Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011      
Supporting liabilities under non-linked  
insurance and investment contracts 
     
Trading assets – debt securities ....................................... 1 – 2 – 3 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......................... 2,851 168 349 143 3,511 
– treasury and other eligible bills ................................ 107 – – – 107
– debt securities ........................................................... 2,744 168 349 143 3,404
Financial investments ...................................................... 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243 
– treasury and other similar bills ................................. – – – – –
– other eligible bills ..................................................... – – – – –
– debt securities ........................................................... 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243
 34,914 2,884 1,620 339 39,757 
Supporting shareholders’ funds
79
      
Financial assets designated at fair value ......................... 341 348 61 45 795 
– treasury and other eligible bills ................................ – – – – –
– debt securities ........................................................... 341 348 61 45 795
Financial investments ...................................................... 3,198 560 83 29 3,870 
– treasury and other similar bills ................................. – – – – –
– other eligible bills ..................................................... 50 – – – 50
– debt securities ........................................................... 3,148 560 83 29 3,820
 3,539 908 144 74 4,665 
Total
73
      
Trading assets – debt securities ....................................... 1 – 2 – 3 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......................... 3,192 516 410 188 4,306 
– treasury and other eligible bills ................................ 107 – – – 107
– debt securities ........................................................... 3,085 516 410 188 4,199
Financial investments ...................................................... 35,260 3,276 1,352 225 40,113 
– treasury and other similar bills ................................. – – – – –
– other eligible bills ..................................................... 50 – – – 50
– debt securities ........................................................... 35,210 3,276 1,352 225 40,063
 38,453 3,792 1,764 413 44,422 
   
 
179 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Neither past due nor impaired   
 Strong  Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010      
Supporting liabilities under non-linked  
insurance and investment contracts 
     
Trading assets – debt securities .................................................... 9 – 2 – 11 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................................... 3,126 88 330 36 3,580 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................................. 118 – 1 – 119
– debt securities ........................................................................ 3,008 88 329 36 3,461
Financial investments ................................................................... 32,164 1,948 250 158 34,520 
– treasury and other similar bills .............................................. – – 10 – 10
– other eligible bills .................................................................. 176 – – – 176
– debt securities ........................................................................ 31,988 1,948 240 158 34,334
 35,299 2,036 582 194 38,111 
Supporting shareholders’ funds
79
      
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................................... 492 286 75 4 857 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................................. 10 – – – 10
– debt securities ........................................................................ 482 286 75 4 847
Financial investments ................................................................... 3,443 740 101 82 4,366 
– treasury and other similar bills .............................................. – – 31 – 31
– other eligible bills .................................................................. 217 – – – 217
– debt securities ........................................................................ 3,226 740 70 82 4,118
 3,935 1,026 176 86 5,223 
Total
73
      
Trading assets – debt securities .................................................... 9 – 2 – 11 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................................... 3,618 374 405 40 4,437 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................................. 128 – 1 – 129
– debt securities ........................................................................ 3,490 374 404 40 4,308
Financial investments ................................................................... 35,607 2,688 351 240 38,886 
– treasury and other similar bills .............................................. – – 41 – 41
– other eligible bills .................................................................. 393 – – – 393
– debt securities ........................................................................ 35,214 2,688 310 240 38,452
 39,234 3,062 758 280 43,334 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Credit risk also arises when part of the insurance 
risk we incur is assumed by reinsurers. The split of 
liabilities ceded to reinsurers and outstanding 
reinsurance recoveries, analysed by credit quality, 
is shown below. Our exposure to third parties 
under the reinsurance agreements described in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 188 is included in this 
table. 
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts 
(Audited) 
 Neither past due nor impaired   Past due   
 
 Strong  Good 
 
 Satisfactory
 Sub-
 standard 
  but not 
 impaired   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Linked insurance contracts ................................... 45 858 – – – 903 
Non-linked insurance contracts ............................ 782 10 104 3 – 899 
Total
73
 ................................................................... 827 868 104 3 – 1,802 
Reinsurance debtors .............................................. 18 2 9 1 12 42 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Insurance risk > Liquidity risk / PVIF 
 
 
180 
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (continued) 
 Neither past due nor impaired   Past due   
 
 Strong  Good 
 
  Satisfactory 
 Sub-
 standard 
  but not 
 impaired   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2010       
Linked insurance contracts ................................... 44 716 – – – 760 
Non-linked insurance contracts ............................ 997 11 76 12 9 1,105 
Total
73
 ................................................................... 1,041 727 76 12 9 1,865 
Reinsurance debtors .............................................. 30 8 30 1 10 79 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
The following tables show the expected 
undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract 
liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of 
investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2011. 
A significant proportion of our non-life insurance 
business is viewed as short-term, with the settlement 
of liabilities expected to occur within one year of the 
period of risk. There is a greater spread of expected 
maturities for the life business where, in a large 
proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in 
conjunction with policyholders (wholly owned by 
the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business). 
The profile of the expected maturity of the 
insurance contracts as at 31 December 2011 
remained comparable with 2010. 
Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities 
(Audited) 
 Expected cash flows (undiscounted) 
  Within 1 year  1-5 years  5-15 years  Over 15 years  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011      
Non-life insurance ........................................... 742 704 176 13 1,635 
Life insurance (non-linked) ............................. 2,006 12,243 21,332 25,990 61,571 
Life insurance (linked) .................................... 920 3,262 9,070 15,546 28,798 
Total
73
 .............................................................. 3,668 16,209 30,578 41,549 92,004 
      
At 31 December 2010      
Non-life insurance ........................................... 1,140 1,157 83 76 2,456 
Life insurance (non-linked) ............................. 2,463 11,178 18,839 21,093 53,573 
Life insurance (linked) .................................... 485 2,557 6,366 10,724 20,132 
Total
73
 .............................................................. 4,088 14,892 25,288 31,893 76,161 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities 
(Audited) 
 Liabilities under investment contracts by 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
  Linked
 investment
 contracts 
 Other
 investment
 contracts 
 Investment 
 contracts 
  with DPF 
 
 Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Remaining contractual maturity:
73
     
– due within 1 year ..................................................................... 191 438 8 637 
– due between 1 and 5 years ...................................................... 595 – 3 598 
– due between 5 and 10 years .................................................... 548 – – 548 
– due after 10 years .................................................................... 2,063 – – 2,063 
– undated
80
 .................................................................................. 4,416 3,583 21,477 29,476 
 7,813 4,021 21,488 33,322 
   
 
181 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Liabilities under investment contracts by 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
  Linked 
 investment 
 contracts 
 Other 
 investment 
 contracts 
 Investment 
 contracts 
  with DPF 
 
 Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2010     
Remaining contractual maturity:
73
     
– due within 1 year ..................................................................... 391 446 11 848 
– due between 1 and 5 years ...................................................... 940 – 11 951 
– due between 5 and 10 years .................................................... 1,182 – – 1,182 
– due after 10 years .................................................................... 2,133 – – 2,133 
– undated
80
 .................................................................................. 3,675 3,372 22,052 29,099 
 8,321 3,818 22,074 34,213 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Present value of in-force long-term 
insurance business 
(Audited) 
Our life insurance business is accounted for using 
the embedded value approach which, inter alia, 
provides a comprehensive risk and valuation 
framework. The PVIF asset at 31 December 2011 
was US$4.1bn (2010: US$3.4bn), representing the 
present value of the shareholders’ interest in the 
profits expected to emerge from the book of in-force 
policies at that date. 
The PVIF calculation projects expected cash 
flows, adjusted for a variety of assumptions made 
by each insurance operation to reflect local market 
conditions and management’s judgement of future 
trends. The main assumptions made relate to 
economic and non-economic assumptions and 
policyholder behaviour. By definition, assumptions 
are subject to risk and uncertainty and can result in 
volatility in the results of the insurance business.  
The key drivers of the movement in the value 
of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from 
new business adjusted for anticipated maturities 
and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour 
(‘Value of new business written during the year’), 
the unwind of the discount rate less the reversal 
of expected cash flows for the period (‘Expected 
return’), changes in non-economic operating 
assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates 
(‘Change in operating assumptions’), impacts 
arising from changes in projected future cash flows 
associated with operating assumption experience 
variances compared to those assumed at the start of 
the period (‘Experience variances’), changes related 
to future investment returns (‘Changes in investment 
assumptions’) and the impact of actual investment 
experience on future cash flows compared to those 
assumed at the start of the period (‘Investment return 
variances’).  
During 2011 the calculation of the PVIF asset 
was refined to allow greater comparability and 
consistency across the Group’s insurance operations. 
This was achieved by incorporating explicit margins 
and allowances for certain risks and uncertainties, 
where implicit adjustments to the risk discount rate 
have been made in the past. 
The valuation now includes explicit risk 
margins for non-economic risks in the projection 
assumptions and explicit allowances for financial 
options and guarantees using stochastic methods. 
Risk discount rates are now set on an active basis 
with reference to market risk free yields and have 
been reduced as a result of removing the implicit 
adjustments, as shown in the key assumptions table 
below.  It should be noted that these refinements will 
introduce greater volatility within reported results in 
the future which is reflected in higher sensitivity 
impacts, including sensitivities to lapse, mortality 
and/or morbidity. 
A one-off gain of US$243m is included in 
‘Other adjustments’ in the table below which 
represents the impact of these refinements on the 
in-force book. 
The following table shows the movements 
recorded during the year in respect of total equity 
and PVIF of insurance operations. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Insurance risk > Economic assumptions / Non-economic assumptions // Other material risks > Reputational risk 
 
 
182 
Movements in total equity and PVIF of insurance operations 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 
 PVIF 
 Total 
 equity  PVIF  
  Total 
 equity 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 1 January .................................................................................. 3,440 9,778 2,780 8,580 
Value of new business written during the year
81
 ............................ 943  737  
Movements arising from in-force business:      
– expected return ........................................................................ (428) (85)  
– experience variances
82
 ............................................................. 1  20  
– changes in operating assumptions ........................................... (222) 58  
Investment return variances ............................................................ (103) 19  
Changes in investment assumptions ............................................... 294  (38)  
Other adjustments ........................................................................... 241  (6)  
Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business .......................... 726 726 705 705 
Return on net assets ........................................................................ – 1,057 – 858 
Capital transactions ........................................................................ – (500) – (149)
Disposals of subsidiaries/portfolios ............................................... – (96) – – 
Exchange differences and other ..................................................... (74) (336) (45) (216)
At 31 December ............................................................................. 4,092 10,629 3,440 9,778 
For footnotes, see page 185. 
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations 
 2011 2010 
 
 UK  Hong Kong  France  UK   Hong Kong  France 
  %  %  %  %  %   % 
Risk free rate ............................................................  2.24  1.47  2.77  3.46   3.10   3.15 
Risk discount rate ....................................................  2.74  8.00  5.95  7.00   11.00   8.00 
Expense inflation .....................................................  3.45  3.00  2.00  3.76   3.00   2.00 
 
Economic assumptions 
(Audited) 
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of 
reasonably possible changes in the main economic 
assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries. 
Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, 
the relationships may be non-linear and the results of 
the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to 
higher levels of stress. In calculating the scenario 
for 2010, the shift in the risk-free rate resulted in 
changes to investment returns and bonus rates. 
During 2011, the scenario was updated and the shift 
in risk-free rate also now includes changes to the risk 
discount rate as a consequence of the refinements to 
PVIF methodology as described above, which in turn 
results in a reduction to the overall stress impact. 
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could 
be taken by management to mitigate effects and 
before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour. 
Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic 
assumptions 
(Audited) 
 PVIF at 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
+ 100 basis point shift in  
risk-free rate ................. 128 231 
– 100 basis point shift in  
risk-free rate ................. (91) (190)
Non-economic assumptions 
(Audited) 
We determine the policyholder liabilities for non-life 
manufacturers by reference to non-economic 
assumptions including claims costs and expense 
rates. 
Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life 
manufacturers are determined by reference to non-
economic assumptions including mortality and/or 
morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates. The table 
below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2011 and 
total equity at 31 December 2011 to reasonably 
possible changes in these non-economic assumptions 
at that date across all our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2010.   
 
183 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The cost of claims is a risk associated with non-
life insurance business. An increase in claims costs 
would have a negative effect on profit. Our main 
exposures to this scenario are in Hong Kong, Latin 
America and Bermuda.  Sensitivities have decreased 
since 2010 due to the non-renewal and transfer to 
third parties of certain contracts in our Irish business 
as well as the disposal of the motor business in the 
UK during 2011. 
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically 
associated with life insurance contracts. The effect 
on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity 
depends on the type of business being written. Our 
largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk 
exist in France, Hong Kong and the US. 
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type 
of contracts being written. For insurance contracts, 
claims are funded by premiums received and income 
earned on the investment portfolio supporting the 
liabilities. For a portfolio of term assurance, an 
increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect 
on profit due to the loss of future premium income 
on the lapsed policies. France, Hong Kong and the 
UK are where we are most sensitive to a change in 
lapse rates. 
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in 
expense rates. To the extent that increased expenses 
cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in 
expense rates will have a negative impact on our 
profits. 
 
Sensitivity analysis 
(Audited) 
 
Effect on profit for the year  
to 31 December 
Effect on total equity 
at 31 December 
  Life  Non-life  Total  Life   Non-life   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011       
20% increase in claims costs ................................ – (135) (135) – (135) (135)
20% decrease in claims costs ............................... – 135 135 – 135 135 
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity  
rates ................................................................... (100) – (100) (100) – (100)
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity  
rates ................................................................... 110 – 110 110 – 110 
50% increase in lapse rates ................................... (349) – (349) (349) – (349)
50% decrease in lapse rates .................................. 609 – 609 609 – 609 
10% increase in expense rates .............................. (89) (12) (101) (89) (12) (101)
10% decrease in expense rates ............................. 89 12 101 89 12 101 
       
2010       
20% increase in claims costs ................................ – (211) (211) – (211) (211)
20% decrease in claims costs ............................... – 211 211 – 211 211 
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity  
rates ................................................................... (55) – (55) (55) – (55)
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity  
rates ................................................................... 66 – 66 66 – 66 
50% increase in lapse rates ................................... (203) – (203) (203) – (203)
50% decrease in lapse rates .................................. 363 – 363 363 – 363 
10% increase in expense rates .............................. (63) (11) (74) (63) (11) (74)
10% decrease in expense rates ............................. 63 11 74 63 11 74 
 
Other material risks 
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
The safeguarding of our reputation is 
paramount. It is the responsibility of all 
members of staff who are supported by 
a global risk management structure 
underpinned by relevant policies and 
practices, readily available guidance, and 
regular training.  
As discussed in the Group Chief Executive’s 
Statement, we are placing a fresh emphasis on values 
at HSBC, so that our employees are empowered to 
do the right thing and to act with courageous 
integrity. In 2011, we made HSBC Values more 
explicit to ensure we meet the expectations of 
society, customers, regulators and investors. Those 
values are that we are dependable; open to different 
ideas and cultures; and connected to customers, 
communities, regulators and investors. 
The Group acknowledges that it has not always 
got this right in the past and that its conduct in 
relation to the NHFA Limited, leading to the 
imposition of a financial penalty, fell below the 
standards we set for ourselves and required by 
regulation. We recognise that our reputation was 
damaged by this incident and we have committed  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Other material risks > Pension risk / Sustainability risk // Footnotes 
 
 
184 
to a robust process of review of past sales which, 
in appropriate cases, will lead to full and proper 
customer compensation. We will take responsibility 
for all NHFA customers, including those from before 
HSBC bought the company, which is beyond the 
requirements of the terms agreed with the FSA. 
In addition, we have reviewed sales procedures 
applicable to potentially vulnerable categories of 
customers on a global basis and will apply a 
consistent approach to such services to a global 
minimum and a robust standard, which fully respects 
the letter and spirit of all relevant regulatory 
requirements. 
We continue to work to resolve previously-
disclosed regulatory issues in the US relating to anti-
money laundering (‘AML’) and compliance controls 
and foreclosure procedures in full co-operation with 
our relevant regulators. We are committed to 
maintaining robust AML and compliance controls 
in all our businesses. 
Pension risk 
(Unaudited) 
We operate a number of pension plans 
throughout the world. Some are defined 
benefit plans, of which the largest is the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the 
principal plan’). 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
procedures for the management of pension risk in 
2011.  
During 2011, the net liability under the Group’s 
defined benefit pension plans reduced from 
US$2.9bn to US$0.2bn. This was principally due to 
growth in the value of the principal plan’s assets 
outstripping the comparable growth in liabilities. 
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio 
of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities 
arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be 
paid. The trustee of the principal plan is required to 
produce a written Statement of Investment Principles 
which governs decision-making about how 
investments are made. 
In 2006, HSBC and the trustee of the principal 
plan agreed to change the investment strategy in 
order to reduce the investment risk. The target asset 
allocations for this strategy at that time, at the last 
year-end and as revised in 2011, demonstrating the 
ongoing evolution of the strategy, are shown below. 
The strategy is to hold the majority of assets in 
bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse range 
of investments, and includes a commitment to 
undertake a programme of swap arrangements 
(see Note 45 on the Financial Statements) by which 
the principal plan makes LIBOR-related interest 
payments in exchange for the receipt of cash flows 
which are based on projected future benefit 
payments to be made from the principal plan. 
The DBS principal plan – asset allocation 
  2011   2010   2006 
  %   %   % 
Equities ............................  15.5   15.5   15.0 
Bonds ...............................  60.5   56.5   50.0 
Alternative assets
83
 ..........  9.5   10.5   10.0 
Property ............................  9.0   9.0   10.0 
Cash ..................................  5.5   8.5   15.0 
  100.0   100.0   100.0 
For footnote, see page 185. 
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Assessing the environmental and social 
impacts of providing finance to our 
customers is integral to our overall risk 
management processes. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
procedures for the management of sustainability risk 
in 2011. 
 
 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding reputational risk, pension 
risk and sustainability risk is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 188. 
 
   
 
185 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Footnotes to Risk 
Credit risk 
  1 Includes loan impairment charges relating to assets reclassified as held for sale. 
  2 2010 comparative data have not been separately presented as the amounts are insignificant. 
  3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by 
mailshots to personal customers. In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$171bn 
(2010: US$220bn), reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments. The take-up of such offers is generally at modest 
levels. 
  4 Residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.3bn at 31 December 2011 
(2010: US$3.5bn). Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2009: US$3.5bn; 2008: US$3.9bn; 2007: US$3.9bn. 
  5 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending. 
  6 These categories were formerly combined under a single heading, ‘Commercial, industrial and international trade’. 
  7 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities. 
  8 During 2011 the Group adopted a more stringent treatment for the presentation of impaired loans for geographical regions with 
significant levels of forbearance. As a result loans and advances have been classified as impaired that under the previous disclosure 
convention would otherwise have been classified as neither past due nor impaired or past due but not impaired. The comparative 
balances for 2010 were restated to comply with the revised segmentation, restatement of comparatives prior to 2010 is impracticable 
(see page 133, ‘Impaired loans disclosure’ for further details).  
  9 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2011 relate to the geographical regions, Europe and North America. 
10 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2010 relate to geographical regions, Europe, Middle East and North 
Africa, and North America. 
11 Our available-for-sale holdings in sovereign and agency debt of Italy and Spain include debt held to support insurance contracts which 
provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders. For such contracts, unrealised movements in liabilities are recognised in 
other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised movements on related available-for-sale assets. To the extent 
that the movements are matched, no movement in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised. For those available-for-sale debt 
instruments described above that are not held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to 
policyholders, the available-for-sale reserves at 31 December 2011 were insignificant. 
12 Derivative assets net of collateral and derivative liabilities for which a legally enforceable right of offset exists.  
13 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance. 
14 Comprising Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. 
15 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by 
HSBC Finance. 
16 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less 
estimated costs to sell (‘Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount’). The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated 
as cash proceeds less the Initial Foreclosed Properties Carrying Amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-
down (excluding any accrued finance income) plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash 
proceeds (e.g. real estate tax advances) and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property. This ratio represents the portion of 
our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property. The comparative data are restated (previously 
divided by the Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount). 
17 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 16 and 
the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property. This calculation of the average total 
loss on foreclosed properties uses the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-down (excluding any accrued finance income) plus 
certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds (e.g. real estate tax advances) and were 
incurred prior to our taking title to the property. 
18 Percentages are expressed as a function of the relevant loans and receivables balance. 
19 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and 
not through the use of an allowance account. 
20 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed 
according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement. Consequently, we report 
all such balances under ‘Neither past due nor impaired’. 
21 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong (2011: US$3.5bn; 2010: 
US$4.1bn), good (2011: US$476m; 2010: US$627m), satisfactory (2011: US$428m; 2010: US$452m), sub-standard (2011: US$556m; 
2010: US$669m) and impaired (2011: US$229m; 2010: US$29m). 
22 Included in this category are loans of US$2.9bn (2010: US$3.7bn) that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at 
the point of re-age. These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will 
perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future. 
23 Impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless 
individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 128, ‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’) and 
renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired (see page 133). 
24 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and 
loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective 
impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified. 
25 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 
90 days past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired. 
26 Included within ‘Exchange and other movements’ is US$1.6bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale.  
27 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings. 
28 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable. 
29 Includes movement in impairment allowances against banks. 
30 See table below ‘Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region’. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Footnotes 
 
 
186 
31 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the 
allowances or provisions. Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets 
booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong. 
32 The table presents the carrying amount of collateral and other credit enhancements obtained which are held at the reporting date. In previous 
years we presented the amount of collateral and other credit enhancements obtained during the year. This resulted from a change to the 
disclosure requirements under IFRSs. 
33 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure. 
34 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’) and The Federal National 
Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’). 
35 ‘Directly held’ includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group. 
36 Impairment charges allocated to capital note holders represent impairments where losses would be borne by external third-party 
investors in the structures. 
37 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption 
amounts through the residual life of the security. 
38 A credit default swap (‘CDS’) gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs. 
39 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs. It includes assets that benefit from 
monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 
40 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit valuation adjustment. 
41 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness. 
42 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. 
Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value 
write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. 
 
Liquidity and funding 
43 As a result of the significant level of disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2011, the financial liabilities of the disposal groups 
held for sale has been separately shown in the table. For further details of the disposal groups held for sale refer to Note 27. 
44 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding ratio and a larger stressed one month coverage ratio. 
45 Figures provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate all overseas branches. 
Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between them and the parent. 
46 Part of the improvement in the advances to core funding ratio and stressed one month coverage ratio for HSBC Bank USA is due to a 
change in its inherent liquidity risk categorisation during 2011. The change in categorisation was due to an improvement in the overall 
liquidity risk in US banking sector and the strong liquidity profile of HSBC Bank USA. If this change had not been made, the advances 
to core funding ratio for 2011 would have been as follows: year end, 96.8%; maximum, 99.7%; minimum, 86.4%; average, 93.5%. The 
stressed one month coverage ratio would have been as follows: year end, 105.4%; maximum, 116.3%; minimum, 98.5%; average, 
108.2%. For further details of our inherent liquidity risk categorisation refer to the Appendix on page 188. 
47 This comprises our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of 
which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions. 
48 Unused committed sources of secured funding for which eligible assets were held. 
49 Client-originated asset exposures relate to consolidated multi-seller conduits, primarily Regency and Bryant Park. These vehicles 
provide funding to our customers by issuing debt secured by a diversified pool of customer-originated assets. The 2010 comparative for 
HSBC Bank plc has been restated to include a US$0.6bn committed facility provided to Bryant Park. In 2011 a committed line of 
US$3.3bn was provided to Bryant Park by HSBC Bank plc which has been reflected in these figures. The reduction in contingent risk 
exposure in HSBC Bank USA in 2011 is primarily due to the transfer of the majority of the committed lines provided for Bryant Park 
LLC to HSBC Bank plc. 
50 HSBC-managed asset exposures relate to consolidated securities investment conduits, primarily Solitaire and Mazarin (see page 403). 
These vehicles issue debt secured by ABSs which are managed by HSBC. HSBC has a total contingent liquidity risk of US$22.1bn 
(2010: US$25.6bn) of which Solitaire represents US$9.3bn already funded on-balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$8.1bn) 
leaving a net contingent exposure of US$12.8bn (2010: US$17.5bn). As at 31 December 2011, US$6.2bn (2010: US$8.4bn) of the net 
contingent liability is on the Commercial Paper issued by Mazarin and entirely held by HSBC. 
51 Other conduit exposures relate to third-party sponsored conduits (see page 405). 
52 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits. 
53 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits. 
 
Market risk 
54 The structural foreign exchange risk is monitored using sensitivity analysis (see page 166). The reporting of commodity risk is 
consolidated with foreign exchange risk and is not applicable to non-trading portfolios. 
55 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VAR. The management of this 
risk is described on page 168. 
56 Credit spread sensitivity is reported separately for insurance operations (see page 177). 
57 2010 VAR comparatives have been adjusted to include credit spread risk to allow for a like for like comparison. In the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2010, we reported the following measures for Group VAR for 2010: at 31 December US$267m, average US$200m, 
minimum US$140m, and maximum US$286m. 
58 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues. 
59 Revenues within the daily distribution graph include all revenues booked in Global Markets (gross of brokerage fees), Balance Sheet 
Management, and the trading element of revenues booked in the GPB and RBWM businesses. The effect of any month-end adjustments, 
not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question. 
60 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking.  
61 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the 
reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity 
and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VAR by individual risk type and 
the combined total VAR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occur on 
different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.    
 
187 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
62 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects. 
63 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment. Potential 
new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for 
the portfolio as a whole. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.  
64 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. 
65 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are 
considered likely to move together. 
 
Risk management of insurance operations 
66 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa. 
67 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’) can give policyholders the contractual 
right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total 
contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC. These additional benefits are contractually based on the 
performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.  
68 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as 
permitted by IFRS 4. 
69 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers. 
70 Term assurance includes credit life insurance. 
71 Other assets comprise shareholder assets and assets and liabilities classified as ‘held for sale’. 
72 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF. 
73 Does not include associated insurance companies, Ping An, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet, or joint venture insurance 
companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. 
74 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts. 
75 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts. 
76 Comprises non-life insurance contracts. 
77 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities. 
78 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured. 
79 Shareholders’ funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets. 
80 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies. 
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown. 
81 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business. 
82 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the 
previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this impacts profits on future business. 
 
Pension risk  
83 In 2010 and 2011, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets. In 2006, alternative assets included loans and 
infrastructure assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Managing risk / Governance / Credit risk 
 
 
188 
 
Appendix to Risk 
Risk policies and practices 
This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity 
and funding, market risk, insurance risk, operational risk, reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk. 
Managing risk 
(Unaudited) 
HSBC’s approach to risk is encapsulated within our risk appetite framework. The risk appetite statement is approved 
by the Board, which is advised by the Group Risk Committee. For further details of the activities of the Group Risk 
Committee see page 233. 
The framework is maintained at Group, regional and global business levels, operating through governance bodies, 
processes and metrics designed to assist in risk management. Risk appetite statements define, at various levels of the 
business, the qualitative and quantitative expressions of the risks which we are prepared to embrace in alignment 
with our strategy and business plans. Quantitative metrics are assigned to five key categories: earnings, capital and 
liquidity, impairments and expected losses, risk category and diversification and scenario stress testing. Measurement 
against the metrics serves to: 
• guide underlying business activity, ensuring it is aligned to risk appetite statements; 
• determine risk-adjusted remuneration;  
• enable the key underlying assumptions to be monitored and, where necessary, adjusted through subsequent 
business planning cycles; and 
• promptly identify business decisions needed to mitigate risk. 
Risk governance  
(Unaudited) 
Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board on shaping the Group’s risk strategy and 
managing risks effectively. It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, by the cascading from 
the GMB of balanced scorecards that align business and risk objectives, and by the accountability of all staff for 
identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned responsibilities. This personal 
accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, experience and mandatory learning, helps to foster a 
disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC. 
During the year we implemented a new operating model for the Global Risk function. The new model has further 
embedded Compliance within Global Risk, established specific Chief Risk Officer risk roles for RBWM and CMB in 
alignment with other global businesses and broadens the responsibility of Global Security and Fraud Risk. The new 
model is designed to enable the end-to-end management of risk in a consistent manner.  
Scenario stress testing 
(Unaudited) 
We conduct a range of Group stress testing scenarios including, but not limited to, severe global economic downturn, 
country, sector and counterparty failures and a variety of projected major operational risk events. The outcomes of 
the stress scenarios are used to assess the potential impact on demand for regulatory capital against its supply. We 
also participate, where appropriate, in scenario analyses requested by regulatory bodies. 
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios considered for the Group, each major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular 
macro-economic and event-driven scenario analyses specific to its region.  
Stress testing is also used by the market risk discipline to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of events 
or movements in a set of financial variables.  
   
 
189 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit risk 
Credit risk management 
(Audited) 
The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by Group Risk which is part of the Global Risk function. 
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings plc. Similar 
credit approval authorities are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant 
subsidiaries. In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-
related issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk. 
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for 
managing credit risk are set out below. 
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are: 
• to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework;  
• to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk 
appetite under actual and scenario conditions; and  
• to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation. 
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk 
• to formulate Group credit policy. Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must 
develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies;  
• to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and 
controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors; 
• to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk. Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and 
exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken; 
• to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group; 
• to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the 
purpose of trading; 
• to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not 
become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits; 
• to control our cross-border exposures (see page 190); 
• to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems. The Group Chief Risk Officer chairs the Credit Risk Analytics 
Oversight Committee, which reports to the Risk Management Meeting and oversees risk rating model governance for both wholesale 
and retail business;  
• to report on retail portfolio performance, high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and cross-border exposures, large 
impaired accounts, impairment allowances and stress testing results and recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group 
Risk Committee and the Board; and 
• to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, local 
regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions. 
Credit quality 
(Audited) 
Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk 
factors and higher potential severity of loss. In the case of individually significant accounts, risk ratings are reviewed 
regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly. Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed 
using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data. 
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to 
support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. For further details, see ‘Credit quality of 
financial instruments’ on page 191. 
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action. Where appropriate, our 
operating companies use specialist units to provide customers with support in order to help them avoid default 
wherever possible. 
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order to 
provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the HSBC Group, reinforce secondary risk 
management controls and share best practice. Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
 
 
190 
with a global perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out 
oversight audits via sampling of global/regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and 
project audits to assess major change initiatives.  
Impairment assessment 
(Audited) 
It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates allowances for impaired loans promptly and 
consistently. 
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Notes 2(g) and 2(j) on 
the Financial Statements on pages 297 and 301, respectively. 
Write-off of loans and advances 
For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 2 (g) on the Financial Statements on 
page 297. 
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable 
value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower. If there 
is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the 
end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due. 
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, 
the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent. 
Write-off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but in very exceptional 
circumstances exceeding that figure, in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier write-
off, or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending extends to this time.  
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above. 
Collections procedures may continue after write-off. 
Cross-border exposures  
We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political 
factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures. Impairment allowances are assessed in 
respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: 
• performing, trade-related and of less than one year’s maturity;  
• mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country 
concerned;  
• in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are 
measured at fair value daily; and 
• performing facilities with a principal (excluding security) of US$1m or below and/or with maturity dates shorter 
than three months. 
Concentration of exposure 
(Audited) 
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic 
characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or 
industry sectors, so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration 
of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global businesses. These include portfolio and counterparty 
limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing. 
Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of concentration risk and arises when there is a strong correlation between the 
counterparty’s probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. We use a range of 
procedures to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities to obtain prior approval before 
undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.   
 
191 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit quality of financial instruments  
(Audited) 
The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of more granular, internal credit rating 
grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending business, as well as the external ratings attributed by external 
agencies to debt securities. 
There is no direct correlation between the internal and external ratings at granular level, except to the extent each 
falls within a single quality classification. 
Credit quality classification 
(Unaudited) 
 Debt securities 
and other bills 
 
Wholesale lending 
and derivatives Retail lending 
 
External 
credit rating 
 
Internal 
credit rating 
Probability of 
default % 
 Internal 
 credit rating
1
 
 
Expected 
loss % 
Quality classification        
Strong ........................... A– and above  CRR1 to CRR2 0 – 0.169 EL1 to EL2  0 – 0.999 
Good ............................ BBB+ to BBB–  CRR3 0.170 – 0.740 EL3  1.000 – 4.999 
Satisfactory .................. BB+ to B+ and 
unrated 
 
CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 – 4.914 EL4 to EL5  5.000– 19.999 
Sub-standard ................ B and below  CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 – 99.999 EL6 to EL8  20.000 – 99.999 
Impaired ....................... Impaired  CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10  100+ or defaulted
2
1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are 
delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 128, 
‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’). 
2 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 
100% reflecting the cost of recoveries. 
Quality classification definitions 
• ‘Strong’: exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or 
low levels of expected loss. Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency. 
• ‘Good’: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk. 
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of 
recovery processes. 
• ‘Satisfactory’: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with 
moderate default risk. Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following 
the adoption of recovery processes. 
• ‘Sub-standard’: exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern. Retail portfolio segments 
show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and/or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to 
mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes. 
• ‘Impaired’: exposures have been assessed as impaired. Wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is 
unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer 
is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation. Retail loans and advances greater than 90 days past due. Renegotiated 
loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired 
portfolio (see page 192). 
 
The customer risk rating (‘CRR’) 10-grade scale above summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of 
obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All distinct HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, 
depending on the degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure. 
The expected loss (‘EL’) 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for these 
customer segments; this combines obligor and facility/product risk factors in a composite measure.  
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality 
classifications. The ratings of Standard and Poor’s are cited, with those of other agencies being treated equivalently. 
Debt securities with short-term issue ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities. 
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is made in line 
with regulatory requirements.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
 
 
192 
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
A range of forbearance strategies are employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, 
maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. They include extended 
payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt 
consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing. 
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely 
to continue. These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those 
provided initially. Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to 
repay the borrowing and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.  
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of 
renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered 
and the number of qualifying payments that must be received. The application of this policy varies according to the 
nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of 
exceptional events. 
Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans 
(Audited) 
Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at 
the end of each reporting period. A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is 
objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated. 
When we grant a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial 
difficulty, this is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly. 
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when:   
• there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise 
not consider, and 
• it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations 
in full. 
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.  
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a 
significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment. 
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of 
payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances. For loans that are 
assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis.  
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the 
portfolio, but is typically not less than six months. Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance 
activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be 
substantially more (see further detail on HSBC Finance on page 131). Payment performance periods are monitored to 
ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. These performance periods 
are in addition to the receipt of a minimum of two payments within a 60 day period which must be received for the 
customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation (in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for 
example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be 
required). The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable 
for the borrower. For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where 
non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the 
underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructure. 
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about 
a borrower’s ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market 
rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation. Unimpaired 
renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory   
 
193 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining 
indicators of impairment.  
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition. When a loan is 
restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such 
as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated. Interest is recorded on renegotiated loans 
on the basis of new contractual terms following renegotiation. 
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances 
(Audited) 
For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment 
assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments. When empirical evidence 
indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, 
the use of roll-rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances 
by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance. When the portfolio size is 
small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic 
approach based on historical loss rate experience is used. As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise 
collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is 
historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of 
delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date. This 
treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our 
impaired loans disclosure convention. When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the 
portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are 
taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience. 
For further details and examples of the risk factor adjustments see ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 38. 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are 
intrinsic to the impairment assessment. A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan. The individual 
impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in 
renegotiated loans. 
Corporate and commercial forbearance 
(Unaudited) 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified 
that repayment difficulties against the original terms already have, or are very likely to, materialise. These cases are 
treated as impaired loans where:  
a) the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the 
bank (i.e. due to current credit distress); and 
b) the bank is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession (i.e. it is 
offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer). 
These cases are described as distressed restructurings. The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria 
above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired. Against the 
background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point that it becomes clear that a restructuring of this 
kind may be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect the deteriorating credit risk 
profile, and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval.  
For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customer’s agreement should be treated as a distressed 
restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary:  
a) transfers from the customer to the bank of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy 
fully or partially a debt; 
b) issuance or other granting of an equity interest to the bank to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity 
interest is granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest; and 
c) modification of terms of a debt, such as one or a combination of any of the following:  
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt;  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
 
 
194 
– extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new 
debt with similar risk; 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt; and 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of accrued interest.  
Modifications of loans and advances which do not affect payment arrangements, such as restructuring of collateral or 
security arrangements, or waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded as sufficient to 
indicate impairment. By themselves, such changes do not necessarily indicate credit distress affecting payment 
capacity. Typically, covenants are in place to give the bank rights of repricing or acceleration but they are frequently 
set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected. They provide rights of action at earlier stages of credit 
deterioration.  
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customer’s entire 
exposure and facilities will be reviewed and their ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other 
credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation, is assessed. Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will 
not deal with a customer’s payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied.  
This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business 
operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity.  
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for 
payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is 
needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in 
syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features.  
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case 
may be returned to a non-impaired grade (CRR1-8) provided no other indicators of impairment remain. Such a case 
cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment reserve remains against any of the customer’s 
credit facilities. The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the 
customer under the amended agreement, and the extent to which the customer’s financial position is considered to 
have improved. 
Nature of HSBC’s securitisation and other structured exposures 
(Audited) 
Mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide 
investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments (interest and/or principal). An MBS which 
references mortgages with different risk profiles, is classified according to the highest risk class. 
Collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s) are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as asset-
backed securities (‘ABS’s). CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part 
of the underlying assets or reference assets. As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the 
underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as 
sub-prime. Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral 
and lending activity, are described overleaf. 
Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs and direct lending includes securities with collateral relating 
to: 
• commercial property mortgages; 
• leveraged finance loans; 
• student loans; and 
• other assets, such as securities with other receivable-related collateral. 
   
 
195 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Categories of  
ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification 
Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, 
modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have 
experienced credit problems caused by occasional 
delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other 
credit-related actions. 
For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has 
primarily been used to determine whether a loan is sub-
prime; for non-US mortgages, management judgement 
is used. 
US Home Equity Lines 
of Credit (‘HELoC’s) 
A form of revolving credit facility provided to 
customers, which is supported in the majority of 
circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge 
over residential property. 
Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime. 
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher 
risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming 
standard criteria. 
US credit scores and the completeness of 
documentation held (such as proof of income), are 
considered when determining whether an Alt-A 
classification is appropriate. Non sub-prime mortgages 
in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible 
for sale to the major US Government mortgage 
agencies or sponsored entities. 
US Government agency 
and sponsored 
enterprises mortgage-
related assets 
Securities that are guaranteed by US Government 
agencies such as the Government National Mortgage 
Association (‘Ginnie Mae’), or by US Government 
sponsored entities including the Federal National 
Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’) and the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’). 
Holdings of US Government agency and US 
Government sponsored enterprises’ mortgage-related 
assets are classified as prime exposures. 
UK non-conforming 
mortgages 
UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. 
Examples include mortgages where the expected level 
of documentation is not provided (such as income with 
self-certification), or where poor credit history 
increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than 
normal lending rate. 
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as sub-
prime exposures. 
Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that 
do not meet any of the classifications described above.
Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included 
in this category. 
 
Impairment methodologies 
(Audited) 
For available-for-sale ABSs, to identify objective evidence of impairment, an industry standard valuation model is 
normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash 
flows. The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine 
whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.  
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the 
probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss 
severity in the event of default. However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to 
forecast future defaults and recovery rates. Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when 
determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors. We use a modelling approach which incorporates 
historically observed progression rates to default, to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from 
the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows. In such cases the security is considered to 
be impaired. 
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there 
is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.  
When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and 
interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to 
the ABS.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Liquidity and funding 
 
 
196 
Liquidity and funding 
(Audited) 
The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally in our operating entities in compliance with 
policies and limits set by the Risk Management Meeting. These limits vary according to the depth and the liquidity of 
the markets in which the entities operate. Our general policy is that each banking entity should manage its liquidity 
and funding risk on a standalone basis. 
The objective of our liquidity and funding management framework is to ensure that all foreseeable funding 
commitments can be met when due, and that access to the wholesale markets is co-ordinated and cost-effective. 
To this end, we maintain a diversified funding base comprising core retail and corporate customer deposits and 
institutional balances. We augment this with wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid assets diversified 
by currency and maturity which are held to enable us to respond quickly and smoothly to unforeseen liquidity 
requirements. 
We adapt our liquidity and funding risk management framework in response to changes in the mix of business that 
we undertake, and to changes in the nature of the markets in which we operate. We also seek to continuously evolve 
and strengthen our liquidity and funding risk management framework. 
We employ a number of measures to monitor liquidity risk. We also manage our intra-day liquidity positions so 
that we are able to meet payment and settlement obligations on a timely basis. Payment flows in real time gross 
settlement systems, expected peak payment flows and large time-critical payments are monitored during the day 
and the intra-day collateral position is managed so that there is liquidity available to meet payments. 
Policies and procedures 
(Audited) 
It is our policy that each banking entity should manage its liquidity and funding risk on a standalone basis. 
Exceptions are permitted for certain short-term treasury requirements and start-up operations or for branches which 
do not have access to local deposit markets. These entities are funded from our largest banking operations and within 
clearly defined internal and regulatory guidelines and limits. The limits place formal restrictions on the transfer of 
resources between our entities and reflect the broad range of currencies, markets and time zones within which we 
operate.   
Elements of our liquidity and funding management process 
• projecting cash flows by major currency under various stress scenarios and considering the level of liquid assets necessary in relation 
thereto; 
• monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances to core funding ratios against internal and regulatory requirements; 
• maintaining a diverse range of funding sources with back-up facilities; 
• managing the concentration and profile of debt maturities; 
• managing contingent liquidity commitment exposures within pre-determined caps; 
• maintaining debt financing plans; 
• monitoring depositor concentration in order to avoid undue reliance on large individual depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall 
funding mix; and 
• maintaining liquidity and funding contingency plans. These plans identify early indicators of stress conditions and describe actions to be 
taken in the event of difficulties arising from systemic or other crises, while minimising adverse long-term implications for the business. 
 
Primary sources of funding 
(Audited) 
Current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, 
and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability. For deposits, stability depends upon preserving 
depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing. 
We also access professional markets in order to obtain funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept 
deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence in local money markets. In 
aggregate, our banking entities are liquidity providers to the interbank market, placing significantly more funds with 
other banks than they borrow. The main operating subsidiary that does not accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which 
is funded principally by taking term funding in the professional markets.    
 
197 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The management of liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
We use a number of principal measures to manage liquidity risk, as described below. 
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 
We categorise our operating entities into one of three categories to reflect our assessment of their inherent liquidity 
risk, considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the operating entities’ host country, and also 
factors specific to the entity itself, such as the local footprint, market share, balance sheet strength and control 
framework. This assessment is used to determine the severity of the liquidity stress that we expect our operating 
entities to be able to withstand, as expressed in our principal liquidity risk metrics, being the stressed one month 
coverage ratio and the advances to core funding ratio.  
Core deposits 
Our internal framework is based on our categorisation of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our 
expectation of the behaviour of these deposits during a liquidity stress. This characterisation takes into account the 
inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and 
pricing of the deposit. Deposits deemed to be core are considered to be a long-term source of funding and are 
assumed to not be withdrawn in the liquidity stress we use for our principal liquidity risk metrics.  
Advances to core funding ratio 
We emphasise the importance of core customer deposits as a source of funds to finance lending to customers, and 
discourage reliance on short-term professional funding. This is achieved by placing limits on banking entities which 
restrict their ability to increase loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer 
deposits or long-term debt funding; this measure is referred to as the ‘advances to core funding’ ratio. 
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the major Group banking entities 
and monitored by Group Finance. Limits for other Group banking entities are set by the relevant regional Asset and 
Liability Committee meeting. The ratio describes current loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total 
of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year. Loans and 
advances to customers which are part of reverse repurchase arrangements, and where we receive securities which are 
deemed to be liquid, are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio.  
Stressed one month coverage ratio 
The stressed one month coverage ratios are derived from projected cash flow scenario analyses, and express the 
stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over a one month time horizon. Group sites are 
required to target a ratio of 100% or greater. 
Projected cash flow scenario analysis 
We use a number of standard projected cash flow scenarios designed to model both Group-specific and market-wide 
liquidity crises in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on committed lending facilities 
are varied, and the ability to access interbank funding and term debt markets and to generate funds from asset 
portfolios are restricted. The scenarios are modelled by all Group banking entities and by HSBC Finance. The 
appropriateness of the assumptions under each scenario is regularly reviewed. In addition to our standard projected 
cash flow scenarios, individual entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market 
conditions, products and funding bases. 
Limits for cumulative net cash flows under stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and for HSBC Finance. 
Both ratio and cash flow limits reflect the local market place, the diversity of funding sources available and the 
concentration risk from large depositors. Compliance with entity level limits is monitored centrally by Group Finance 
and reported regularly to the Risk Management Meeting. 
Liquidity behaviouralisation 
Liquidity behaviouralisation will be applied to reflect our conservative assessment of the expected period for which 
we are confident that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Liquidity and funding / Market risk 
 
 
198 
expected period for which we must conservatively assume that we will need to fund our assets. Behaviouralisation is 
applied when the contractual terms do not reflect the expected behaviour. Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed, 
approved by the Asset and Liability Management Committee in compliance with policies set by the Risk 
Management Meeting. A conservative approach to liquidity risk management will often mean an asymmetric 
approach to assets and liabilities, being an assumed shorter life for liabilities and a longer term funding requirement 
for assets. 
Contingent liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
In the normal course of business, we provide customers with committed facilities, including committed backstop 
lines to conduit vehicles we sponsor and standby facilities to corporate customers. These facilities increase our 
funding requirements when customers choose to raise drawdown levels above their normal utilisation rates. The 
liquidity risk consequences of increased levels of drawdown are analysed in the form of projected cash flows under 
different stress scenarios. The Risk Management Meeting also sets limits for non-cancellable contingent funding 
commitments for the major Group banking entities after due consideration of each entity’s ability to fund them. The 
limits are split according to the borrower, the liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the committed line. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of 
intra-group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt 
capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance. Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to 
subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.  
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and 
guarantees and similar contracts issued. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of 
HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.  
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the 
holding company level. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends 
on, among other things, their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and 
operating performance. The wide range of our activities means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single 
source of profits to fund its dividend payments to shareholders.  
Market risk 
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
(Audited) 
The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits approved by the GMB. 
Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in determining the 
level of limits set. Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk 
management policies and measurement techniques. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk 
management and control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the 
policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily 
basis. 
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer 
them to either its local Global Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision 
of the local ALCO. Our aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations that have the 
necessary skills, tools, management and governance to manage them professionally. In certain cases where the 
market risks cannot be fully transferred, we use simulation modelling to identify the impact of varying scenarios on 
valuations and net interest income.   
 
199 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures. These include sensitivity analysis, value at 
risk (‘VAR’) and stress testing. 
Sensitivity analysis 
(Unaudited) 
We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type, for example, the present value 
of a basis point movement in interest rates for interest rate risk. Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and 
risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set. 
Value at risk  
(Audited) 
V AR is a technique that estimates the potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in 
market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.  
The V AR models we use are based predominantly on historical simulation. These models derive plausible future 
scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking account of inter-relationships between different 
markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The models also incorporate the effect of option 
features on the underlying exposures. 
Our historical simulation models assess potential market movements with reference to data from the past two years 
and calculate V AR to a 99% confidence level and for a one-day holding period. 
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, 
adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers. 
Statistically, we would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only 1% of the time over a one-year period. The actual 
number of excesses over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing. 
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. For example:  
• the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, 
particularly those which are extreme in nature; 
• the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset in one day. 
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period 
may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully; 
• the use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this 
level of confidence; 
• VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not 
necessarily reflect intra-day exposures; and 
• VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under significant market moves. 
Stress testing 
(Audited) 
In recognition of the limitations of VAR, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on 
portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. 
The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk 
managers, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: 
• sensitivity scenarios consider the impact of any single risk factor or set of factors that are unlikely to be captured 
within the VAR models, such as the break of a currency peg; 
• technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market 
correlation; 
• hypothetical scenarios consider potential macro economic events, for example, a global flu pandemic; and 
• historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress 
which would not be captured within VAR.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Market risk  
 
 
200 
Stress testing results provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have 
on our profit.  
Trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading 
within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing rigorous new product 
approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with 
appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.  
Credit spread risk 
The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing 
and VAR. 
Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative transactions entered into by Global Banking in order to manage the 
risk concentrations within the corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital efficiency. The mark-to-market of these 
transactions is reflected in the income statement. 
Gap risk 
Even for transactions that are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market 
conditions or events, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss. A gap event could arise from 
a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is 
breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure. Such 
movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the 
market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible. 
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VAR or to traditional market risk 
sensitivity measures. We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing 
basis. We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk. 
ABS/MBS exposures 
The ABS/MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR limits as described 
on page 199, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above. 
Non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income. 
Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets 
and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make 
assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, 
and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable 
on demand such as current accounts. 
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the books managed by 
Global Markets or the local ALCO. The net exposure is typically managed through the use of interest rate swaps 
within agreed limits. The VAR for these portfolios is included within the Group VAR. 
Credit spread risk 
The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing, 
and VAR for those portfolios where VAR is calculated. We have introduced credit spread as a separate risk type 
within our VAR models on a global basis. The VAR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit 
spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval.   
 
201 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
(Unaudited) 
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the 
functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. An entity’s functional currency is that of 
the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. We use the US dollar 
as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked 
to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Our consolidated balance sheet is, 
therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies 
of underlying subsidiaries. 
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange 
exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios 
and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange 
rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given 
currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in 
question. 
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered to be 
significantly overvalued and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge. Any hedging is undertaken using forward 
foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, 
or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected 
net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling). We aim, through our management 
of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could 
reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue 
stream. 
For simulation modelling, entities use a combination of scenarios relevant to their local businesses and markets and 
standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC. The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro 
forma effect on our consolidated portfolio valuations and net interest income. 
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest 
income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Group’s current interest rate risk profile. This effect, 
however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by Global Markets or in the business units to 
mitigate the effect of interest rate risk. In reality, Global Markets seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk 
profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues. The projections also assume that interest rates of all maturities 
move by the same amount (although rates are not assumed to become negative in the falling rates scenario) and, 
therefore, do not reflect the potential impact on net interest income of some rates changing while others remain 
unchanged. In addition, the projections take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in 
changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates linked to other bases (such as Central Bank rates or 
product rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes). The projections 
make other simplifying assumptions, including that all positions run to maturity.  
Projecting the movement in net interest income from prospective changes in interest rates is a complex interaction of 
structural and managed exposures. Our exposure to the effect of movements in interest rates on our net interest 
income arises in two main areas: core deposit franchises and Balance Sheet Management. 
• core deposit franchises are exposed to changes in the cost of deposits raised and spreads on wholesale funds. The 
net interest income benefit of core deposits increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall. This 
risk is asymmetrical in a very low interest rate environment, however, as there is limited room to lower deposit 
pricing in the event of interest rate reductions; and 
• residual interest rate risk is managed within Balance Sheet Management under our policy of transferring interest 
rate risk to it to be managed within defined limits and with flexibility as to the instruments used.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Market risk / Operational risk 
 
 
202 
The sensitivity analysis reflects the fact that our deposit taking businesses generally benefit from rising rates which 
are partially offset by increased funding costs in Balance Sheet Management given our simplifying assumption of 
unchanged Balance Sheet Management positioning. The benefit to deposit taking businesses of rising rates is also 
offset by the increased funding cost of trading assets, which is recorded in ‘Net interest income’ and therefore 
captured in the sensitivity analysis, whereas the income from such assets is recorded in ‘Net trading income’. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not 
fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-
term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members. Pension scheme assets include 
equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates vary. There is a risk 
that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with 
regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, 
could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer. Management, together with the trustees who act on 
behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external 
actuaries, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity. Its activities 
predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; allocating 
these capital resources across our businesses; earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our 
businesses; providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings’ equity shareholders and interest payments to providers 
of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources. It does not take proprietary trading positions. 
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure 
to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-
term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market 
risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in economic income, cash flows 
and distributable reserves. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO. 
HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk arising on certain 
long-term debt capital issues for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Changes in the market values of these 
swaps are recognised directly in the income statement. HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to final 
maturity with the accumulated changes in market value consequently trending to zero. 
Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the 
provider or the recipient are accounted for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due to 
exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement. These loans, and the associated foreign exchange 
exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis. 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective 
manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB. 
A formal governance structure provides oversight over the management of operational risk. A Global Operational 
Risk and Control Committee, which reports to the Risk Management Meeting, meets at least quarterly to discuss key 
risk issues and review the effective implementation of our operational risk management framework. 
In each of our subsidiaries, business managers are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control, 
commensurate with the scale and nature of operations. They are responsible for identifying and assessing risks, 
designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The operational risk management framework 
helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a 
tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data. 
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process. Operational risk self-  
 
203 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
assessments are input and maintained by business units. To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently 
reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss 
is expected to exceed US$10,000. 
For further details, see the Capital and Risk Management Pillar 3 Disclosures as at 31 December 2011, page 46. 
Legal risk 
(Unaudited) 
Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to 
Group standards.  
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: 
• contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and/or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual 
relationship are defective; 
• dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or 
managing a potential or actual dispute; 
• legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which 
it operates; and  
• non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company’s assets are not properly owned or are 
infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another party’s rights.  
We have a global legal function to assist management in controlling legal risk. The function provides legal advice 
and support. The Group Legal department oversees the global legal function and is headed by a Group General 
Counsel. There are legal departments in 58 of the countries in which we operate. There are also regional legal 
functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific 
headed by Regional General Counsels as well as General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses. 
Compliance risk 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk. All Group companies are required to observe the letter 
and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. These rules, 
regulations, other standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and 
corruption, counter terrorist financing and sanctions compliance. 
The Group Compliance function supports line management in ensuring that there are adequate policies and 
procedures, and is responsible for maintaining adequate resources to mitigate compliance risk. The Group 
Compliance department oversees the global compliance function and is headed by the Head of Group Compliance 
who reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer. There are compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate and 
in all global business lines. These compliance teams are principally overseen by Regional Compliance Officers 
located in Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific and each 
business line is supported by a Global Business Compliance Officer. 
Group Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Group Compliance of 
all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, Group policy or other relevant requirement. These 
escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-
year and year-end by all Group companies detailing any known breaches as above. The contents of these escalation 
and certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and 
the Board and disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, if appropriate. 
Global security and fraud risk 
(Unaudited) 
Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk. This unit, which has 
responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business 
intelligence is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function. This enables management to identify and 
mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which 
we operate.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Insurance risk 
 
 
204 
Insurance risk 
Overview of insurance products 
(Audited) 
The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: 
Life insurance business 
• life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’);  
• credit life insurance business; 
• annuities; 
• term assurance and critical illness policies; 
• linked life insurance; 
• investment contracts with DPF; 
• unit-linked investment contracts; and 
• other investment contracts (including pension contracts written in Hong Kong). 
Non-life insurance business 
Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, repayment 
protection and commercial insurance. 
Nature and extent of risks 
(Audited) 
The majority of the risks in our insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised as 
insurance risk and financial risks. The following sections describe how these risks are managed. Financial risks 
include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included 
within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 98 to 187, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section. The consolidated 
liquidity risk and market risk disclosures focus on banking entities and exclude insurance operations. Disclosures 
specific to the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ 
section on pages 171 to 183. Operational risk is covered by the Group’s overall operational risk management process. 
Insurance manufacturers set their own control procedures in addition to complying with guidelines issued by 
the Group Insurance Head Office. The control framework for monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk 
Committee, which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations. Five sub-
committees of this Committee focus on products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk 
and insurance risk, respectively. Similar risk committees exist at regional or entity levels. The Group Insurance Risk 
Committee monitors the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed 
by the GMB. Any issues requiring escalation from the Group Insurance Risk Committee would be reported to the 
GMB via the Risk Management Meeting. 
In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly for life business 
where the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities are reviewed. 
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval 
process. Approval is provided by the Regional Insurance Head Office or Group Insurance Head Office depending 
on the type of product and its risk profile. The approval process is formalised through the Product and Pricing 
Committee, which comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions within insurance.  
Insurance risk 
(Audited) 
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to 
the issuer (HSBC). The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of 
acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received 
and investment income.   
 
205 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, 
lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the 
liabilities. 
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set centrally, taking 
into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements. Formal underwriting, 
reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, 
supplemented with stress testing. 
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk, 
in particular to aggregations of catastrophe risk. When we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of 
third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to them. Although reinsurance 
provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the 
reinsurer. 
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below. The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by 
reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers. These typically reflect the issuers’ own experiences. The 
type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies 
considerably. 
• mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life 
products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities. The risks are monitored on a regular 
basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain 
cases to amend premiums in the light of experience; 
• lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application 
of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to 
policyholders. A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis; and  
• expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums 
and/or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline. 
Economic assumptions, such as investment returns and interest rates, are usually based on observable market data. 
Clearly, liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions (see ‘Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance subsidiaries to risk 
factors’ on page 177 and ‘Sensitivity analysis’ on page 183). 
The main risks associated with non-life business are: 
• underwriting: the risk that premiums are not appropriate for the cover provided; and 
• claims experience: the risk that claims exceed expectations. 
We manage these risks through pricing (for example, imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and 
conditions), product design, risk selection, claims handling, investment strategy and reinsurance policy. The majority 
of our non-life insurance contracts are renewable annually, providing added flexibility to the underwriting terms and 
conditions. 
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk. Market risk includes interest rate risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk. The nature and management of 
these risks is described below.  
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets 
are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from non-linked insurance and investment contracts. In many 
jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these 
subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities. These requirements complement Group-wide policies.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Insurance risk  
 
 
206 
Market risk 
(Audited) 
Description of market risk 
The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, 
and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below. 
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the 
guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. When the asset yields are below 
guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued. A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance 
contracts is outlined below. 
Categories of guaranteed benefits 
• annuities in payment;  
• deferred/immediate annuities: these consist of two phases –the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase; 
• annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate. This may be the return credited to the policyholder 
every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or 
the surrender date of the contract; and 
• capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses. 
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion 
allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. Subsidiaries 
with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in 
the discretionary bonuses. An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the 
guarantee to the policyholder. 
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse 
at any time. When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting 
assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk. In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when 
asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions. 
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt 
to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based. These 
assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiary’s local currency. It is often not cost effective for 
the subsidiary to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets, and this exposes it to the risk that 
its local currency will strengthen against the currency of the related assets.  
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically 
remains as the market value of the linked assets influences the fees we earn for managing them. 
Asset and liability matching 
It is not always possible to achieve a complete matching of asset and liability durations, partly because there is 
uncertainty over policyholder behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the 
timing of claims, and partly because the duration of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest available dated 
fixed interest investments.  
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated 
liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how the assets and liabilities should be matched. The 
scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates. Of 
particular importance is matching the expected pattern of cash inflows with the benefits payable on the underlying 
contracts, which can extend for many years. 
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed 
in the current market. As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those which may be obtained on 
current issues. We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage 
the immediate strain on the business. Should interest rates and yield curves remain low for prolonged periods, further 
such steps may be needed.   
 
207 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
How market risk is managed 
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in 
which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain. They manage 
market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write. 
Techniques for managing market risk 
• for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders. The effect is that a significant portion of the 
market risk is borne by the policyholder; 
• as far as possible, matching assets to liability cash flows; 
• using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows; 
• for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure;  
• periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked 
to savings and investment products; 
• including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when 
policyholders surrender their policies;  
• exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable; and 
• repricing of premiums charged to policyholders. 
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed. When, for example, 
options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and 
appropriate risk management procedures are in place. For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is 
undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office. Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets 
are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion. 
How the exposure to market risk is measured 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to 
Group Insurance Head Office. Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management 
forums in the Group, including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk 
Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group. 
Standard measures for quantifying market risks 
• for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one 
basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values; 
• for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country; and 
• for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency. 
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations. The most 
significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships 
between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates. Non-linearity arises, for example, from 
investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies. We bear the 
shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment 
returns implied by the guaranteed benefits.  
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a 
range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant. The results 
of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office and risk committees every quarter. 
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Description of credit risk 
We used to sell certain unit-linked life insurance contracts which were reinsured with a third-party counterparty, who 
also underwrote market return guarantees. We are exposed to credit risk to the extent that the counterparty is unable 
to meet the terms of the guaranteed benefits. The cost to us of market return guarantees increases when interest rates 
fall, equity markets fall or market volatility increases. In addition, when determined by reference to a discounted cash  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Insurance risk / Reputational risk / Pension risk 
 
 
208 
flow model in which the discount rate is based on current interest rates, guarantee costs increase in a falling interest 
rate environment. The sale of these contracts ceased in 2008, reflecting our adjusted risk appetite. 
How credit risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their 
investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon 
internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.  
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are 
aggregated and reported to Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting and the Group Insurance 
Risk Committee. Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head Office on the investment credit exposures 
using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities. The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance Risk 
Committee. 
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These include an Early Warning Report and a watch list 
of investments with current credit concerns which are circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group 
Insurance Head Office and the Regional Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future 
impairment. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
Description of liquidity risk 
It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims 
liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk. 
There are three aspects to liquidity risk. The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding 
liquidity risk; specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations. Secondly, 
market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed 
around the market price. Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal 
conditions. 
How liquidity risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the 
following sources of cash inflows: 
• premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products; 
• interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments; 
• cash resources; and 
• the sale of investments. 
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: 
• matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset 
and liability matching techniques such as duration matching; 
• maintaining sufficient cash resources; 
• investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist; 
• monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or 
issuers; and 
• establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities. 
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above. 
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to 
Group Insurance Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting. 
Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a   
 
209 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating 
cash outflows. This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or 
lapses are greater, than expected. 
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational and operational risks. This is 
an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance and best practice.  
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational 
risks to our business. Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes. As a banking group, our good 
reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, to 
whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves. The training of Directors on appointment includes 
reputational matters. 
Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group 
Reputational Risk Policy Committee (‘GRRPC’), which is chaired by the Group Chairman. The primary role of the 
GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make 
recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting and the GMB for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such 
risk. Reputational Risk Committees have been established in each of the Group’s geographical regions. These 
committees are required to ensure that reputational risks are considered at a regional as well as Group level. Minutes 
from the regional committees are tabled at GRRPC. 
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions. 
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) matters, are considered and assessed by 
the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior 
management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards. These policies, which form an 
integral part of the internal control system (see page 248), are communicated through manuals and statements of 
policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training. The policies cover ESG issues and set out 
operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist 
financing, environmental impact, anti-corruption measures and employee relations. The policy manuals address risk 
issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence 
to our risk management system and our sustainability practices. 
Pension risk 
(Unaudited) 
We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements. 
Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal 
plan’).  
In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies (and, in some instances, 
employees) make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the 
scheme’s trustees (where relevant). The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments 
designed to meet their long-term liabilities. 
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBC’s cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that 
there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members. However, 
higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension 
liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan. The agreed 
contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially.
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including 
• investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits. This could arise, for example, when there is a 
fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held; 
• the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt); 
• a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities; and 
• scheme members living longer than expected (known as longevity risk).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Sustainability risk // Capital > Overview / Movement in RWAs in 2011 
 
 
210 
A plan’s investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments 
and its consequential impact on potential future contributions. The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC 
and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are:  
• to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term; and 
• to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined 
benefit plans. 
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan 
assets between asset classes. In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or 
property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance. The benchmarks are reviewed 
at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if 
required by local legislation or circumstances. The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review. 
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a 
Management Committee. The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions. For 
example, the principal plan, which accounts for approximately 70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension 
plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who regularly monitors the market risks inherent in the scheme. 
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the 
needs of sustainable development; in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh 
economic benefits. Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to 
manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate. Sustainability Risk Managers have regional 
or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks. 
Group Corporate Sustainability’s risk management responsibilities include: 
• formulating sustainability risk policies. This includes oversight of our sustainability risk standards, management 
of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and sector-based sustainability policies covering those 
sectors with high environmental or social impacts (forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining 
and metals, and defence-related lending); undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability 
risks are assessed to be high, and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower 
magnitude; 
• building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs 
of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our 
lending and investment activities on sustainable development; and 
• providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are 
identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, 
whichever is higher. 
   
 
211 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Capital 
Capital overview ................................................................ 211
Movement in risk-weighted assets in 2011 ....................... 211
Movement in tier 1 capital in 2011 ................................... 212
Future developments ......................................................... 212
Appendix to Capital ........................................................... 215
Our objective in the management of Group 
capital is to maintain efficient levels of well 
diversified and varied forms of capital to 
support our business strategy and meet 
our regulatory requirements. 
Capital management 
(Unaudited) 
Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic 
and organisational requirements, taking into account the 
regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which 
we operate. It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base 
to support the development of our business and to meet 
regulatory capital requirements at all times. To achieve this, 
our policy is to hold capital in a range of different forms and 
from diverse sources.  
Capital measurement and allocation 
(Unaudited) 
The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and 
therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and 
sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual 
banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local 
banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital 
adequacy requirements. We calculate capital at a Group level 
using the Basel II framework of the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision as implemented by the FSA.  
 
 
A summary of our policies and practices 
regarding capital management, measurement 
and allocation is provided in the Appendix to 
Capital on page 215. 
Capital overview 
In 2011, there were no material changes to our 
capital policies except to reflect the introduction 
of the Capital Requirement Directive (‘CRD’) III 
regulations in the EU, commonly known as 
Basel 2.5, which increased the capital requirements 
for market risk and re-securitisations, with effect 
from 31 December 2011. 
Capital ratios 
(Unaudited) 
 2011  2010 
 %  % 
Core tier 1 ratio ........................... 10.1  10.5 
Tier 1 ratio .................................. 11.5  12.1 
Total capital ratio ........................ 14.1  15.2 
Core tier 1 target range ............... 9.5–10.5   
Eligibility requirements for non-equity 
instruments under Basel III rules have not been 
clearly defined in the UK. We therefore chose not to 
issue any such capital securities during 2011. 
Risk-weighted assets by risk type 
(Unaudited) 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
    
Credit risk ................................... 958,189  890,696
Counterparty credit risk .............. 53,792  50,175
Market risk .................................. 73,177  38,679
Operational risk .......................... 124,356  123,563
Total ............................................ 1,209,514  1,103,113
Movement in risk-weighted assets in 2011 
(Unaudited) 
RWAs increased by US$106bn or 10% in 2011. 
Exchange rate differences caused a net reduction in 
RWAs of around US$9bn in the year, reflecting the 
strengthening of the US dollar against a range of 
currencies, mainly in the faster-growing markets, 
partly offset by the effect of the strengthening of 
the renminbi against the US dollar. The remaining 
increase in RWAs of US$115bn arose mainly in 
credit risk and market risk. 
RWAs increased by approximately US$50bn 
as a result of the introduction of Basel 2.5, net of 
mitigating actions undertaken by management. Of 
this increase, around US$40bn was in market risk of 
which the largest component was stressed VAR. 
Higher risk weights on re-securitisations increased 
credit risk RWAs by around US$10bn, primarily 
impacting the GB&M legacy portfolios.  
The increase in credit risk RWAs reflected 
growth in our global businesses. In the Rest of Asia-
Pacific, trade finance and lending balances in our 
CMB business grew as we captured inbound and 
outbound trade flows and as demand for credit 
increased. RWAs were also affected by increases in 
loan balances in our mainland China associates. In 
Latin America a favourable economic environment 
drove growth in trade-related lending, increasing 
RWAs in CMB and GB&M. In Europe, our CMB 
business experienced growth in corporate lending in 
the UK and Continental Europe.   
In our RBWM business, the increase in 
mortgage origination in Hong Kong and the UK had 
only a marginal impact on RWAs, due to the low 
risk weight applicable to the residential mortgages. 
In our North America legacy retail business, we 
continued to run-off the CML portfolio. This was 
partially offset by the slow pace of recovery of the 
US economy and deterioration in the US housing 
market, resulting in increased average risk weights 
applicable to those portfolios. Our strategy of 
running down legacy RWAs continued in 2011 as  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Movement in tier 1 capital in 2011 / Future developments 
 
 
212 
we announced the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business, which is expected to be completed  
in the first half of 2012 subject to regulatory 
approval. 
Source and application of tier 1 capital 
  2011 
 US$m 
  2010 
 US$m 
Movement in tier 1 capital    
(Audited)   
Opening core tier 1 capital ....................................................................................................................... 116,116 106,260 
Contribution to core tier 1 capital from profit for the year .................................................................. 14,011  13,218 
Consolidated profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company ........................................... 16,797  13,159
Removal of own credit spread net of tax ............................................................................................. (2,786)  59
Net dividends ............................................................................................................................................ (5,271)  (3,827)
Dividends .............................................................................................................................................. (7,501)  (6,350)
Add back: shares issued in lieu of dividends ....................................................................................... 2,230  2,523
Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deducted .............................................................................. 582  679 
Ordinary shares issued .............................................................................................................................. 96  180 
Foreign currency translation differences .................................................................................................. (2,705)  (526)
Other, including regulatory adjustments .................................................................................................. (333)  132 
Closing core tier 1 capital ......................................................................................................................... 122,496 116,116 
Opening other tier 1 capital ...................................................................................................................... 17,063  15,897 
Hybrid capital securities issued net of redemptions ................................................................................. –  2,368 
Other, including regulatory adjustments .................................................................................................. 31  (1,202)
Closing tier 1 capital ................................................................................................................................. 139,590 133,179 
 
Movement in tier 1 capital in 2011 
(Audited) 
We complied with the FSA’s capital adequacy 
requirements throughout 2011 and 2010. Internal 
capital generation contributed US$8.7bn to core tier 
1 capital, being profits attributable to shareholders 
of the parent company after regulatory adjustment 
for own credit spread, and net dividends. Foreign 
currency translation differences decreased core tier 
1 capital by US$2.7bn due to the strengthening of 
the US dollar. 
Future developments 
(Unaudited) 
The regulation and supervision of financial 
institutions continues to undergo significant change 
in response to the global financial crisis. In 
December 2010, the Basel Committee issued two 
documents: A global regulatory framework for 
more resilient banks and banking systems and 
International framework for liquidity risk 
measurement, standards and monitoring, which 
together are commonly referred to as ‘Basel III’. In 
June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to 
the former document setting out the finalised capital 
treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral 
trades. 
The Basel III rules set out the minimum 
common equity tier 1 requirement of 4.5% and 
additional capital conservation buffer requirement of 
2.5%, to be phased in sequentially from 1 January 
2013, becoming fully effective on 1 January 2019. 
Any additional countercyclical capital buffer 
requirements will also be phased in, starting in 2016 
to a maximum level of 2.5% effective on 1 January 
2019, although individual jurisdictions may choose 
to implement larger countercyclical capital buffers. 
The leverage ratio will be subject to a supervisory 
monitoring period, which commenced on 1 January 
2011, and a parallel run period which will run from 
1 January 2013 until 1 January 2017. Further 
calibration of the leverage ratio will be carried out 
in the first half of 2017 with a view to migrating to 
a pillar 1 requirement from 1 January 2018. 
In addition to the criteria detailed in the Basel 
III proposals, the Basel Committee issued further 
minimum requirements in January 2011 to ensure 
that all classes of capital instruments fully absorb 
losses at the point of non-viability before taxpayers 
are exposed to loss. Instruments issued on or after 
1 January 2013 may only be included in regulatory 
capital if the new requirements are met. The capital 
treatment of securities issued prior to this date will 
be phased out over a 10-year period commencing on 
1 January 2013.  
In July 2011, the European Commission 
published proposals for a new Regulation and 
Directive, known collectively as CRD IV, to give 
effect to the Basel III framework in the EU. The 
majority of the Basel III proposals are in the   
 
213 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Regulation, removing national discretion, with the 
exception of countercyclical and capital conservation 
buffers which are in the Directive. 
The Regulation additionally sets out provisions 
to harmonise regulatory and financial reporting in 
the EU. In December 2011, the EBA published a 
consultative document proposing measures to 
specify uniform formats, frequencies and dates 
of prudential reporting to the regulator. The new 
requirements are due to take effect as of 1 January 
2013. 
The CRD IV measures are subject to agreement 
by the European Parliament, the Council and EU 
member states. 
In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the 
Basel Committee issued a consultative document in 
July 2011, Global systemically important banks: 
assessment methodology and the additional loss 
absorbency requirement. In November 2011, they 
published their rules and the Financial Stability 
Board (‘FSB’) issued the initial list of global 
systematically important banks (‘G-SIBs’). This 
list, which includes HSBC alongside twenty-eight 
other major banks globally, will be re-assessed 
periodically through annual re-scoring of the 
individual banks and triennial review of the 
methodology. 
The rules set out an indicator-based approach to 
G-SIBs assessment employing five broad categories: 
size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, 
cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity. The 
designated G-SIBs will be required to hold minimum 
additional common equity Tier 1 capital of between 
1% and 2.5%, depending on their relative systemic 
importance indicated by their assessed score. A 
further 1% charge may be applied to any bank 
which fails to make progress, or even regresses, in 
performance within the assessment categories. The 
requirements, initially for those banks identified 
in November 2014 as G-SIBs, will be phased in 
from 1 January 2016, becoming fully effective on 
1 January 2019. National regulators have discretion 
to introduce higher thresholds than these minima. 
The above forms part of a broad mandate of the 
FSB to reduce the moral hazard of G-SIBs. A further 
exercise of this mandate was the FSB’s own direct 
consultation of October 2011. This proposed 
introducing, over 2012-14, enhanced reporting 
by G-SIBs to the Basel Committee centrally.  
In September 2011, the ICB recommended 
measures on capital requirements for UK banking 
groups. For further details on these proposals see 
page 101. The requirements as set out above indicate 
the required regulatory common equity tier 1 ratio 
for a G-SIB may ultimately lie in the range of 8% to 
12%.  
Potential common equity tier 1 requirements from 
1 January 2019 
(Unaudited) 
Minimum common equity tier 1  4.5% 
Capital conservation buffer   2.5% 
Countercyclical capital buffer   0 – 2.5% 
G-SIB buffer    1 – 2.5% 
Against the backdrop of eurozone instability, on 
a temporary basis, the EBA recommends banks aim 
to reach a 9% core tier 1 ratio by the end of June 
2012. We will continue to review our target core tier 
1 ratio of 9.5% to 10.5% as the applicable regulatory 
capital requirements evolve over the period to 
1 January 2019. 
Impact of Basel III 
(Unaudited) 
In order to provide some insight into the possible 
effects of the Basel III rules on HSBC, we have 
estimated the Group’s pro forma common equity 
tier 1 ratio on the basis of our interpretation of those 
rules applied to our position at 31 December 2011.  
The Basel III changes will be progressively 
phased in. The increased capital requirements which 
come into effect on 1 January 2013 are estimated to 
result in a common equity tier 1 ratio which is 
100bps lower than the current core tier 1 ratio. 
Management actions, primarily the run-off of legacy 
positions including the US CML portfolio and the 
sale of the US Card and Retail Services portfolio, 
coupled with active management of the correlation 
trading portfolio, the market risk capital requirement 
and the counterparty capital risk requirement, will 
mitigate this by 110bps, more than offsetting the 
effect of these Basel III changes before taking 
account of any future retained earnings. 
In addition to the impact on common equity 
tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital will also 
be affected by the derecognition of non-qualifying 
capital instruments. These changes will be phased in 
over 10 years from 1 January 2013, and will further 
reduce the tier 1 ratio by an estimated 10bps, and the 
total capital ratio by an estimated 50bps in 2013, 
excluding new issues of qualifying capital 
instruments. 
The changes to capital deductions and regulatory 
adjustments including deferred tax assets, material 
holdings, excess expected losses and unrealised 
losses on available-for-sale portfolios will be phased 
in over a five-year period starting on 1 January 2014.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Capital structure // Appendix to Capital > Management / Measurement and allocation 
 
 
214 
Capital structure at 31 December 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Composition of regulatory capital  
(Audited)   
Tier 1 capital   
Shareholders’ equity ................................................................................................................................. 154,148  142,746 
Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet
1
 ............................................................................................... 158,725  147,667 
Preference share premium .................................................................................................................... (1,405)  (1,405)
Other equity instruments ...................................................................................................................... (5,851)  (5,851)
Deconsolidation of special purpose entities
2
 ....................................................................................... 2,679  2,335 
Non-controlling interests .......................................................................................................................... 3,963  3,917 
Non-controlling interests per balance sheet ......................................................................................... 7,368  7,248 
Preference share non-controlling interests ........................................................................................... (2,412)  (2,426)
Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital .......................................................................... (496)  (501)
Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries .................................................................... (497)  (404)
Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis ...................................................................................... (4,331)  1,794 
Unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities
3
 ...................................................................... 2,228  3,843 
Own credit spread ................................................................................................................................. (3,608)  (889)
Defined benefit pension fund adjustment
4
 ........................................................................................... (368)  1,676 
Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on  
available-for-sale equities ..................................................................................................................... (2,678)  (3,121)
Cash flow hedging reserve ................................................................................................................... 95  285 
Deductions ................................................................................................................................................ (31,284)  (32,341)
Goodwill capitalised and intangible assets .......................................................................................... (27,419)  (28,001)
50% of securitisation positions ............................................................................................................ (1,207)  (1,467)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses ................................................................................ 188  241 
50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances .......................................................... (2,846)  (3,114)
Core tier 1 capital ................................................................................................................................... 122,496  116,116 
    
Other tier 1 capital before deductions ...................................................................................................... 17,939  17,926 
Preference share premium .................................................................................................................... 1,405  1,405 
Preference share non-controlling interests ........................................................................................... 2,412  2,426 
Hybrid capital securities ....................................................................................................................... 14,122  14,095 
Deductions ................................................................................................................................................ (845)  (863)
Unconsolidated investments
5
 ............................................................................................................... (1,033)  (1,104)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses ................................................................................ 188  241 
Tier 1 capital ........................................................................................................................................... 139,590  133,179 
Tier 2 capital    
Total qualifying tier 2 capital before deductions ..................................................................................... 48,676  52,713 
Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on  
available-for-sale equities ..................................................................................................................... 2,678  3,121 
Collective impairment allowances
6
 ...................................................................................................... 2,660  3,109 
Perpetual subordinated debt ................................................................................................................. 2,780  2,781 
Term subordinated debt ........................................................................................................................ 40,258  43,402 
Non-controlling interests in tier 2 capital ............................................................................................ 300  300 
Total deductions other than from tier 1 capital ........................................................................................ (17,932)  (18,337)
Unconsolidated investments
5
 ............................................................................................................... (13,868)  (13,744)
50% of securitisation positions ............................................................................................................ (1,207)  (1,467)
50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances .......................................................... (2,846)  (3,114)
Other deductions .................................................................................................................................. (11)  (12)
Total regulatory capital ......................................................................................................................... 170,334  167,555 
1 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2011. 
2 Mainly comprises unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities within special purpose entities which are excluded from the 
regulatory consolidation. 
3 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains/losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources. 
4 Under FSA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding 
that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five year period.  
5 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities. 
6 Under FSA rules, collective impairment allowances on loan portfolios on the standardised approach are included in tier 2 capital. 
   
 
215 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Appendix to Capital 
Capital management and capital measurement and allocation 
Capital management 
(Audited)  
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework, which enables us to 
manage our capital in a consistent manner. The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates 
a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and 
regulatory capital. 
Capital measures 
• market capitalisation is the stock market value of the company;  
• invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously 
amortised or written off; 
• economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed; 
and 
• regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for the consolidated 
Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies. 
The following risks managed through the capital management framework have been identified as material: credit, 
market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance and residual risks.  
We incorporate stress testing in the capital management framework, because it is important in understanding the 
sensitivities of the core assumptions in our capital plans to the adverse effect of extreme but plausible events. Stress 
testing allows us to formulate our response, including risk mitigation actions, in advance of conditions starting to 
exhibit the stress scenarios identified. The actual market stresses which occurred throughout the financial system 
during recent years have been used to inform our capital planning process and further develop the stress scenarios we 
employ. In addition to our internal stress tests, others are carried out, both at the request of regulators and by the 
regulators themselves using their prescribed assumptions. We take into account the results of all such regulatory 
stress testing when undertaking our internal capital management assessment. 
The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB. Through our structured 
internal governance processes, we maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek 
to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking account of capital costs. Our strategy is to allocate 
capital to businesses on the basis of their economic profit generation, regulatory and economic capital requirements. 
Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board. The 
plan is drawn up with the objective of maintaining both an appropriate amount of capital and an optimal mix between 
the different components of capital. HSBC Holdings and its major subsidiaries raise non-equity tier 1 capital and 
subordinated debt in accordance with our guidelines on market and investor concentration, cost, market conditions, 
timing, capital composition and maturity profile. Each of our subsidiaries manages its own capital to support its 
planned business growth and meet its local regulatory requirements within the context of the approved annual Group 
capital plan. In accordance with our capital management framework, capital generated by subsidiaries in excess of 
planned requirements is returned to HSBC Holdings, normally by way of dividends. 
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides non-equity capital to 
subsidiaries where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance 
and profit retention. As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance 
between the composition of its capital and that of its investment in subsidiaries. 
Capital measurement and allocation 
(Unaudited) 
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II 
framework. However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and local reporting may still be on 
a Basel I basis, notably in the US. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the 
supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Appendix to Capital > Capital measurement and allocation 
 
 
216 
Regulatory and accounting consolidations 
The basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes is described on page 292 and differs from that used for regulatory purposes. 
Investments in banking associates are equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their exposures are 
proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes. Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and non-financial activities are 
excluded from the regulatory consolidation and are deducted from regulatory capital. The regulatory consolidation does not include SPEs 
where significant risk has been transferred to third parties. Exposures to these SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions for 
regulatory purposes. 
Basel II is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market 
discipline. The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the 
latter’s requirements in its own rulebooks. 
Regulatory capital 
Our capital is divided into two tiers: 
• tier 1 capital is divided into core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital. Core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders’ equity 
and related non-controlling interests. The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core 
tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders’ equity which are 
treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy. Qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative 
perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital; and 
• tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable 
collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as 
available for sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties. 
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the FSA’s rules set limits on the amount of hybrid capital 
instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and also limits overall tier 2 capital to 
no more than tier 1 capital. 
Pillar 1 capital requirements 
Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Credit risk includes 
counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements. These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs. 
Credit risk capital requirements 
Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of pillar 1 credit risk capital 
requirements. The most basic level, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to 
determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties and group other counterparties into broad categories and 
apply standardised risk weightings to these categories. The next level, the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) foundation 
approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of 
the probability that a counterparty will default (‘PD’), but subjects their quantified estimates of exposure at default 
(‘EAD’) and loss given default (‘LGD’) to standard supervisory parameters. Finally, the IRB advanced approach 
allows banks to use their own internal assessment in determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD. 
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified 
in the regulatory rules, which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation. 
Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD. Expected losses 
are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.  
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our business, with the remainder on 
either IRB foundation or standardised approaches. 
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB 
approaches. At end of 2011, portfolios in much of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were 
on advanced IRB approaches. Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending 
definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment. 
• Counterparty credit risk 
Counterparty credit risk arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions. It is calculated in both 
the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before   
 
217 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. Three approaches to calculating counterparty credit risk 
and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model 
method. These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk 
approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced. 
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for counterparty credit risk. Our longer-term 
aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach. 
• Securitisation 
Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading book. For non-trading book securitisation 
positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, these being the standardised 
and IRB approaches. Both approaches rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which 
range between 7% and 1,250%. Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital.  
Within the IRB approach, we use the Ratings Based Method for the majority of our non-trading book 
securitisation positions, and the Internal Assessment Approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-
wide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations.  
Following the implementation of Basel 2.5, the majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated 
for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches. Other 
traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach 
approved by the FSA. 
Market risk capital requirement 
The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the FSA, or 
the FSA’s standard rules. Following the implementation of Basel 2.5, our internal market risk models comprise VAR, 
stressed VAR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure. 
Operational risk capital requirement 
Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication. The capital 
required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised 
approach it is one of three different percentages of gross revenues allocated to each of eight defined business lines. 
Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years’ revenues. Finally, the advanced measurement 
approach uses banks’ own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital 
requirements. We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements. 
Pillar 2 capital requirements 
We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) to determine a forward looking assessment 
of HSBC’s capital requirements given its business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan. This process 
incorporates the risk management processes and governance of the firm. A range of stress tests are applied to our 
base capital plan. These coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices are used 
to assess HSBC’s internal capital adequacy requirements. 
The ICAAP is examined by the FSA as part of the FSA’s Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs 
periodically to enable the FSA to define the Individual Capital Guidance or minimum capital requirements for 
HSBC. 
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements 
Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to 
publish specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II framework. Our 
Pillar 3 disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2011 are published as a separate document on the Group Investor 
Relations website.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Report / Directors 
 
 
218 
Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Report ........................................ 218 
Directors ......................................................................... 218 
Secretary ......................................................................... 223 
Adviser to the Board ....................................................... 223 
Group Managing Directors ............................................. 223 
Board of Directors .......................................................... 225 
Board committees ........................................................... 230 
Group Management Board ......................................... 230 
Group Audit Committee .............................................. 230 
Group Risk Committee ............................................... 233 
Group Remuneration Committee ............................... 238 
Nomination Committee ............................................... 238 
Corporate Sustainability Committee .......................... 239 
Internal control ............................................................... 240 
Going concern basis ........................................................ 243 
Employees ...................................................................... 243 
Other required disclosures............................................... 248 
Annual General Meeting ................................................ 248 
Appendix ......................................................................... 249 
Share capital ............................................................... 251 
Directors’ interests ..................................................... 252 
Supplier payment policy.............................................. 253 
Dividends and shareholders........................................ 253 
 
Corporate Governance Report 
The statement of corporate governance practices set 
out on pages 218 to 277 and information 
incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate 
Governance Report of HSBC Holdings. The reports 
of Board Committees are contained within the 
Corporate Governance Report. 
 
Directors 
D J Flint, CBE, 56 
Group Chairman 
Skills and experience: extensive governance 
experience gained through membership of the 
Boards of HSBC and BP; considerable knowledge 
of finance and risk management in banking, 
multinational financial reporting, treasury and 
securities trading operations; honoured with a CBE 
in recognition of his services to the finance industry; 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and the Association of Corporate 
Treasurers. Fellow of The Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. Joined HSBC in 1995. 
Appointed to the Board: 1995 
Current appointments include: director of The 
Hong Kong Association since 6 February 2011; and 
Vice Chairman and Chairman Designate (June 2012) 
of the Institute of International Finance. 
Former appointments include: Group Finance 
Director and Chief Financial Officer, Executive 
Director, Risk and Regulation. Co-Chairman of the 
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III; 
Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council’s 
review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control; 
a member of the Accounting Standards Board and 
the Standards Advisory Council of the International 
Accounting Standards Board; served on the Large 
Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the 
Consultative Committee of the Large Business 
Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs; and a 
former partner in KPMG. Ceased to be Chairman 
and a member of the Nomination Committee on 
2 December 2011. Ceased to be a non-executive 
director of BP p.l.c. on 14 April 2011. 
S T Gulliver, 52 
Group Chief Executive 
Skills and experience: a career banker with over 
30 years’ international experience with HSBC; has 
held a number of key roles in the Group’s operations 
worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, 
Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates; 
played a leading role in developing and expanding 
Global Banking and Markets, the wholesale banking 
division of the Group with operations in over 65 
countries and territories. Joined HSBC in 1980. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008    
219 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Current appointments include: Group Chief 
Executive and Chairman of The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited since 
1 January 2011; Chairman of HSBC France; and 
Chairman of the Group Management Board. 
Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, 
Middle East and Global Businesses; Chairman of 
HSBC Bank plc and of HSBC Bank Middle East 
Limited; Head of Global Banking and Markets; 
Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets; Head 
of Global Markets; Head of Treasury and Capital 
Markets in Asia-Pacific. Ceased to be Deputy 
Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and 
a member of its Supervisory Board on 7 June 2011; 
and Chairman of HSBC Private Banking Holdings 
(Suisse) SA on 6 December 2011. 
S A Catz
†
, 50 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
business leadership, having helped transform Oracle 
into the largest producer of business management 
software and the world’s leading supplier of software 
for information management. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: President and 
Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation. 
Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board of 
directors in 2001. 
Former appointments include: Managing Director 
of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  
L M L Cha
†
, GBS, 62 
Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee. 
Skills and experience: extensive regulatory and 
policymaking experience in the finance and 
securities sector in Hong Kong and mainland China; 
formerly Vice Chairman of the China Securities 
Regulatory Commission, being the first person 
outside mainland China to join the Central 
Government of the People’s Republic of China at 
vice-ministerial rank; awarded Gold and Silver 
Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Government for 
public service; formerly Deputy Chairman of the 
Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong; 
and has worked in the US and Asia. 
Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2011 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited; non-official member 
of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR; a 
director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing 
Limited; and Tata Consultancy Services Limited; 
Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on 
Corruption; a Hong Kong Deputy to the 11th 
National People’s Congress of China; a member 
of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of 
Management, Millstein Center of Corporate 
Governance, and Performance at Yale University; a 
Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset 
Management Sweden AB; and a member of the State 
Bar of California. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., 
Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson 
Electric Holdings Limited, and China Telecom 
Corporation Limited; and Chairman of the 
University Grants Committee in Hong Kong.  
M K T Cheung
†
, GBS, OBE, 64 
Member of the Group Audit Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
business and financial accounting, particularly in 
greater China and the wider Asian economy; retired 
from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than 
30 years; awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the 
Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2009 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
director of Hang Seng Bank Limited; non-executive 
chairman of the Airport Authority Hong Kong; non-
executive director of HKR International Limited; 
non-official member of the Executive Council of the 
Hong Kong SAR; non-executive chairman of the 
Council of the Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology; and a director of The Association of 
Former Council Members of The Stock Exchange 
of Hong Kong Limited and The Hong Kong 
International Film Festival Society Ltd. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG 
Hong Kong; and a council member of the Open 
University of Hong Kong.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Directors 
 
 
220 
J D Coombe
†
, 66 
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and 
member of the Group Risk Committee and Group 
Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in 
international business, financial accounting and the 
pharmaceutical industry; formerly Chief Financial 
Officer of GlaxoSmithKline with responsibility for 
the group’s financial operations globally. Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2005 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc; a non-
executive director of Home Retail Group plc; and a 
council member of The Royal Academy of Arts.  
Former appointments include: executive director 
and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc; 
non-executive director of GUS plc; a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Siemens AG; Chairman of The 
Hundred Group of Finance Directors; and a member 
of the Accounting Standards Board. 
J Faber
†
, 61 
Member of the Group Risk Committee from 1 March 
2012. 
Skills and experience: a background in banking and 
asset management with significant international 
experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New 
York and London; former Chief Executive Officer of 
Allianz Global Investors AG and a member of the 
management board of Allianz SE until 31 December 
2011; 14 years experience with Citigroup Inc. 
holding positions in Trading and Project Finance and 
as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North 
America and Japan. Has a doctorate from the 
University of Administrative Sciences in Speyer. 
Appointed to the Board: from 1 March 2012 
Current appointments include: Chairman of Joh 
A. Benckiser SARL and Chair of the Investment 
Board of the Stifterverband for the Deutsche 
Wissenschaft; independent director of Deutsche 
Borse AG, Coty Inc.; a member of the advisory 
board of the Siemens Group Pension Board, and the 
boards of management of Deutsche Krebshilfe and 
the European School for Management and 
Technology; and a member of the Berlin Centre for 
Corporate Governance, the German Council for 
Sustainable Development and Allianz Climate 
Solutions. 
Former appointments include: Chairman of 
Allianz Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft 
and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH; 
Chairman of the board of management of Allianz 
Global Investors Italia SGR SpA; a member of the 
advisory board of Allianz SpA; and a member of the 
supervisory board of Bayerische Boerse AG. 
R A Fairhead
†
, CBE, 50 
Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member 
of the Group Audit Committee and Nomination 
Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
industry, publishing, finance and general 
management; formerly Finance Director of Pearson 
plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day 
running of the finance function and directly 
responsible for global financial reporting and 
control, tax and treasury. Has a Master’s in Business 
Administration from the Harvard Business School. 
Appointed to the Board: 2004 
Current appointments include: Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer and a director of Financial Times 
Group Limited. A director of Pearson plc and a non-
executive director of The Economist Newspaper 
Limited; and a non-executive member of the board 
of the UK Government’s Cabinet Office. 
Former appointments include: Executive Vice 
President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial 
Chemical Industries plc; Finance Director of Pearson 
plc; and Chairman and a director of Interactive Data 
Corporation. 
A A Flockhart, CBE, 60 
Chairman, Europe, Middle East, Latin America, 
Commercial Banking 
Skills and experience: a career banker, being an 
emerging markets specialist with over 35 years’ 
experience with HSBC in Latin America, the Middle 
East, US and Asia; honoured with a CBE in 
recognition of his services to British business and 
charitable services and institutions in Mexico. Joined 
HSBC in 1974. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC 
Bank plc since 1 January 2011 and a director of 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited since 7 July 2011; 
Chairman of HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) 
Limited; a director of HSBC Bank Australia Limited; 
and a member of the Group Management Board.   
 
221 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Former appointments include: Chairman, Personal 
and Commercial Banking; Chief Executive Officer 
of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited; a director of HSBC Bank 
(China) Company Limited and Hang Seng Bank 
Limited, vice-chairman and a director of HSBC 
Bank (Vietnam) Limited; Chairman, HSBC Bank 
Malaysia Berhad; Chairman, President and Group 
Managing Director, Latin America and the 
Caribbean; Chief Executive Officer, Mexico; Senior 
Executive Vice-President, Commercial Banking, 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.; Managing Director of The 
Saudi British Bank. 
J W J Hughes-Hallett
†
, SBS, 62 
Member of the Group Risk Committee and 
Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in financial 
accounting and experience of management of a 
broad range of international businesses, including 
aviation, insurance, property, shipping, 
manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US 
and Australia; awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by 
the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2005 
Current appointments include: Chairman of John 
Swire & Sons Limited; non-executive director of 
Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific 
Limited; a trustee of the Dulwich Picture Gallery and 
the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation; a member of The 
Hong Kong Association and the Governing Board of 
the Courtauld Institute of Art.  
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited.  
W S H Laidlaw
†
, 56 
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: significant international 
experience, particularly in the energy sector, having 
had responsibility for businesses in four continents. 
Qualified Solicitor and Master’s in Business 
Administration from INSEAD. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Chief Executive 
Officer of Centrica plc; a member of the UK Prime 
Minister’s Business Advisory Group; and the Lead 
Non-executive Board Member of the Department for 
Transport.  
Former appointments include: Executive Vice 
President of Chevron Corporation; a non-executive 
director of Hanson PLC; Chief Executive Officer of 
Enterprise Oil plc; and President and Chief 
Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation.  
J P Lipsky
†
, 65 
Member of the Group Risk Committee from 1 March 
2012. 
Skills and experience: international experience 
having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and 
London and interacted with financial institutions, 
central banks and governments in many countries; 
served at the International Monetary Fund as First 
Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing 
Director from 14 May 2011 and as Special Advisor 
from 1 September 2011 until retirement on 
11 November 2011. Has a PhD from Stanford 
University. 
Appointed to the Board: from 1 March 2012 
Current appointments include: Distinguished 
Visiting Scholar, International Economics Program 
at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced 
International Studies, Johns Hopkins University; 
co-director of the Aspen Institute Program on the 
Global Economy; director of the National Bureau of 
Economic Research; a member of the advisory board 
of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy 
Research and the Council on Foreign Relations. 
Former appointments include: Vice Chairman J P 
Morgan Investment Bank; director of the American 
Council on Germany and the Japan Society; and a 
trustee of the Economic Club of New York. 
J R Lomax
†
, 66 
Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group 
Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: experience in both the public 
and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the 
operation of the UK government and financial 
system. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
director of The Scottish American Investment 
Company PLC, Reinsurance Group of America Inc., 
Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and 
BAA Limited; a director of the Council of Imperial 
College, London; and President of the Institute of 
Fiscal Studies.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Directors / Senior management 
 
 
222 
Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, 
Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and a 
member of the Monetary Policy Committee; 
Permanent Secretary at the UK Government 
Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions 
and the Welsh Office; and Vice President and Chief 
of Staff to the President of the World Bank. 
I J Mackay, 50 
Group Finance Director 
Skills and experience: extensive financial and 
international experience, having worked in London, 
Paris, US and Asia. Member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Joined HSBC in 
2007. 
Appointed to the Board: 2010 
Current appointments include: member of the 
Group Management Board. 
Former appointments include: director of Hang 
Seng Bank Limited; Chief Financial Officer, Asia 
Pacific; and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc; Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and Vice 
President and Chief Financial Officer of GE 
Healthcare – Global Diagnostic Imaging. 
G Morgan
†
, CM, 66 
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in technical, 
operational, financial and management positions 
leading large international companies in the energy 
and engineering sectors; has been recognised as 
Canada’s most respected Chief Executive Officer in 
a national poll of Chief Executives; a business 
columnist for Canada’s largest national newspaper; 
appointed a Member of the Order of Canada for his 
contributions as a business and community leader 
and as a philanthropist. 
Appointed to the Board: 2006. Will retire from the 
Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2012 
Annual General Meeting. 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman of SNC-Lavalin Group Inc, a member of 
the Board of Trustees of The Fraser Institute and a 
director of the Manning Centre for Building 
Democracy.  
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of HSBC Bank Canada, Founding President, 
Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of 
EnCana Corporation; and a director of Alcan Inc. 
and Lafarge North America, Inc. 
N R N Murthy
†
, CBE, 65 
Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability 
Committee. 
Skills and experience: experience in information 
technology, corporate governance and education, 
particularly in India; founded Infosys Limited in 
India; was its Chief Executive Officer for 21 years; 
under his leadership Infosys established a global 
footprint and was listed on NASDAQ. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Chairman Emeritus 
of Infosys Limited; a director of the United Nations 
Foundation and Catamaran Management Services 
Pvt. Ltd. 
Former appointments include: former Chief 
Executive Officer of Infosys Limited; a director of 
Unilever plc and Unilever n.v.; and a non-executive 
director of DBS Group Holdings Limited, DBS Bank 
Limited and New Delhi Television Limited. 
Sir Simon Robertson
†
, 70 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent  
non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in 
mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, 
investment banking and financial markets; honoured 
with a knighthood in recognition of his services to 
business; extensive international experience having 
worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US. 
Appointed to the Board: 2006.  
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc since 
23 February 2011, which became the holding 
company of the Rolls-Royce group of companies 
on 23 May 2011 as part of a group restructuring. 
Chairman of Rolls-Royce Group plc, formerly the 
holding company of the Rolls-Royce group of 
companies, until 23 May 2011. The founding 
member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP; a 
non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd 
Limited, The Economist Newspaper Limited and 
Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited; a 
partner of NewShore Partners LLP; and a trustee 
of the Eden Project Trust and of the Royal Opera 
House Endowment Fund.    
 
223 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Former appointments include: Managing Director 
of Goldman Sachs International and chairman of 
Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. 
J L Thornton
†
, 58 
Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: experience that bridges 
developed and developing economies and the public 
and private sectors; a deep knowledge of financial 
services and education systems, particularly in Asia. 
During his 23-year career with Goldman Sachs, he 
played a key role in the firm’s global development 
and was Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman and a director of HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc.; professor and director of the Global 
Leadership Program at the Tsinghua University 
School of Economics and Management; Chairman of 
the Brookings Institution Board of Trustees; a non-
executive director of Ford Motor Company, News 
Corporation, Inc. and China Unicom (Hong Kong) 
Limited; a director of National Committee on United 
States-China Relations; a Trustee of Asia Society, 
China Institute, The China Foreign Affairs 
University, a member of the Council on Foreign 
Relations and the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission International Advisory Committee. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China 
Limited and Intel Corporation, Inc.; and President of 
the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
Sir Brian Williamson
†
, CBE, 67 
Member of the Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: extensive experience in 
money and bond markets, insurance, private equity, 
futures, options and commodities trading 
internationally; established the London International 
Financial Futures and Options Exchange and led the 
Exchange’s development of its electronic trading 
platform; was the first chairman of Resolution plc, 
established to consolidate life assurance business in 
the UK; and a member of the Guild for International 
Bankers. 
Appointed to the Board: 2002. Will retire from the 
Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2012 
Annual General Meeting. 
Current appointments include: director of NYSE 
Euronext. 
Former appointments include: Chairman of 
Electra Private Equity plc, London International 
Financial Futures and Options Exchange and Gerrard 
Group plc; a director of Climate Exchange plc; 
Chairman and a non-executive director of Resolution 
plc, a non-executive director of the Financial 
Services Authority and the Court of The Bank of 
Ireland. 
† Independent non-executive Director 
Secretary 
R G Barber, 61 
Group Company Secretary 
Joined HSBC in 1980. Group Company Secretary 
since 1986 and Company Secretary of HSBC 
Holdings plc since 1990. Appointed a Group General 
Manager in 2006. Chairman of the Disclosure 
Committee. A member of the Listing Authority 
Advisory Committee of the Financial Services 
Authority and of the Primary Markets Group of 
the London Stock Exchange. Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Former 
HSBC appointments include: Corporation Secretary 
of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited and Company Secretary of 
HSBC Bank plc. 
Adviser to the Board 
D J Shaw, 65  
An Adviser to the Board since 1998. A director 
of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited, HSBC Private 
Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA and HSBC Private 
Bank (Suisse) SA. An independent non-executive 
director of Kowloon Development Company 
Limited and Shui On Land Limited. A solicitor 
and formerly a partner in Norton Rose.  
Group Managing Directors 
A Almeida, 55 
Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate 
Sustainability 
Joined HSBC in 1992. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. Former HSBC appointments include: 
Global Head of Human Resources for Global 
Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, 
Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Senior management / Board of Directors > Directors / Terms of appointment / Powers 
 
 
224 
S Assaf, 51 
Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets 
Joined HSBC in 1994. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 January 2011. A director of HSBC Bank 
Egypt S.A.E and a director of HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG since 7 June 2011. Former HSBC 
appointments include: Head of Global Markets; and 
Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and 
Africa. Ceased to be a director of HSBC Global 
Asset Management Limited on 24 June 2011.  
R E T Bennett, 60 
Group General Counsel 
Joined HSBC in 1979. A Group Managing Director 
since 3 May 2011. A director of HSBC IM Pension 
Trust Limited. Former HSBC appointments include: 
Group General Manager, Legal & Compliance; and 
Head of Legal & Compliance, Asia Pacific.  
A M Keir, 53 
Global Head of Commercial Banking 
Joined HSBC in 1981. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 January 2011. Former HSBC appointments 
include: Group General Manager, Commercial 
Banking, Europe; and Global Co-Head, Global 
Commercial Banking. Ceased to be a director of 
HSBC Bank Polska S.A on 30 March 2011 and of 
HSBC Bank A.S. on 1 April 2011. 
S A Levey, 48 
Chief Legal Officer 
Joined HSBC on 13 January 2012. A Group 
Managing Director since 18 January 2012. Former 
appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism 
and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of 
Treasury; Senior Fellow for National Security and 
Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign 
Relations; Principal Associate Deputy Attorney 
General at the U.S. Department of Justice; Partner 
at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker 
Botts LLP. 
M M Moses, 54 
Group Chief Risk Officer 
Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director 
since December 2010. A director of HSBC Insurance 
(Bermuda) Limited. Former HSBC appointments 
include: Chief Financial and Risk Officer, Global 
Banking and Markets.  
S P O’Sullivan, 56 
Group Chief Operating Officer 
Joined HSBC in 1980. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 August 2011. Former HSBC appointments 
include: Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank 
Canada; Chairman of HSBC Securities (Canada) 
Inc.; and Group Chief Technology and Services 
Officer. Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC Trust 
Company (UK) Limited on 24 March 2011. 
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank plc and 
Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc on 
31 January 2011 and of HFC Bank Limited on 
24 February 2011.  
B Robertson, 57 
Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc 
Joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. Chairman of HSBC Life (UK) Limited. 
Former HSBC appointments include: Group Chief 
Risk Officer; Group General Manager, Group Credit 
and Risk; and Head of Global Banking and Markets 
for North America.  
P A Thurston, 58 
Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management 
Joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. A director of HSBC Private Banking 
Holdings (Suisse) SA since 21 March 2011 and of 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited since 20 April 2011. Former HSBC 
appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC 
Bank plc and Chairman of HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited. Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank plc 
on 31 December 2011.  
P T S Wong, 60 
Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited 
Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director 
since February 2010. Appointed chairman of HSBC 
Bank (China) Company Limited on 17 June 2011. 
Chairman of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad and Vice 
Chairman of HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd. A non-
executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Bank 
of Communications Co., Ltd and Ping An Insurance 
(Group) Company of China, Ltd. An independent 
non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways 
Limited. Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank 
Australia Limited on 1 February 2011.   
225 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Board of Directors 
The purpose of HSBC’s management structure, 
headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings 
(the ‘Board’) and led by the Group Chairman, is to 
deliver sustainable value to our shareholders. The 
Board sets the strategy and risk appetite for the 
Group and approves capital and operating plans 
presented by management for the achievement of 
the strategic objectives it has set. This ensures the 
efficient application of our resources for the 
achievement of these objectives. Implementation 
of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the 
Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which is led by 
the Group Chief Executive.  
Directors 
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board. The authority 
of each Director is exercised in Board meetings 
where the Board acts collectively. At 27 February 
2012, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, 
Group Chief Executive, two other executive 
Directors and thirteen non-executive Directors. Their 
names and brief biographical particulars are listed on 
pages 218 to 223. The Group Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive and two other executive Directors 
are employees. Non-executive Directors are not 
HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily 
business management of HSBC; they bring an 
external perspective, constructively challenge and 
help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the 
performance of management in meeting agreed goals 
and objectives, and monitor the risk profile and the 
reporting of performance. The non-executive 
Directors bring experience from a number of 
industries and business sectors, including the 
leadership of large complex multinational 
enterprises. 
Terms of appointment 
The Board has determined the time commitment 
expected of non-executive Directors to be not less 
than 24 days per annum and not less than 30 days 
per annum in total for non-executive Directors 
appointed to the Group Audit Committee, Group 
Risk Committee or Group Remuneration Committee 
and for the Deputy Chairman and senior independent 
non-executive Director. 
Letters setting out the terms and conditions of 
appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, 
including the time commitment expected of each of 
them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made 
available for 15 minutes before the Annual General 
Meeting and during the Meeting itself. 
Powers of the Board 
The Board is responsible for managing the business 
of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise its 
powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations 
and to the Articles of Association. In particular, the 
Board may exercise all the powers of the Company 
to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or 
any part of the undertaking, property or assets 
(present or future) of HSBC Holdings and may also 
exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the 
Companies Act 2006 and/or by shareholders. The 
Board is able to delegate and confer on certain 
Directors holding executive office any of its powers, 
authorities and discretions (including the power to 
sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it 
thinks fit. In addition, the Board may establish any 
local or divisional boards or agencies for managing 
the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified 
locality and delegate and confer on any local or 
divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any 
of its powers, authorities and discretions (including 
the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such 
terms as it thinks fit. The Board may also, by power 
of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or 
persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may 
delegate to any such person or persons any of its 
powers, authorities and discretions (including the 
power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such 
terms as it thinks fit. 
The Board delegates the management and day-
to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to 
itself approval of certain matters including operating 
plans, risk appetite and performance targets, 
procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, 
the authority or the delegation of authority to 
approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, 
disposals, investments, capital expenditure or 
realisation or creation of a new venture, specified 
senior appointments and any substantial change in 
balance sheet management policy. 
The Directors who served during the year 
were S A Catz, L M L Cha (appointed 1 March 
2011), V H C Cheng (retired 27 May 2011), 
M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, 
D J Flint, A A Flockhart, S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-
Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, I J Mackay, 
G Morgan, N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, 
J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson.  
HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong 
under part IX of the Companies Ordinance on 
17 January 1991.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors 
 
 
226 
Board meetings 
Seven Board meetings and a two-day strategy 
meeting were held in 2011. At least one Board 
meeting each year is held in a key strategic location 
outside the UK. During 2011, Board meetings were 
held in Hong Kong and Washington D.C. 
The table below shows each Director’s 
attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or 
she was a Director during 2011. No meetings of the 
Board were held at short notice in 2011.  
Eleven meetings of committees of the Board 
appointed to discharge specific business were held 
during 2011. These meetings are not shown in the 
table below. 
During 2011, the non-executive Directors and 
the Group Chairman met three times without the 
other executive Directors. The non-executive 
Directors also met without the Group Chairman to 
appraise the Group Chairman’s performance.  
Attendance record 
 Board 
Number of meetings held ......................................... 7 
S A Catz .................................................................... 6 
L M L Cha
1
 ............................................................... 5 
V H C Cheng
2
 ........................................................... 3 
M K T Cheung .......................................................... 7 
J D Coombe .............................................................. 7 
R A Fairhead
3
............................................................ 4 
D J Flint .................................................................... 7 
A A Flockhart ........................................................... 7 
S T Gulliver .............................................................. 7 
J W J Hughes-Hallett ................................................ 7 
W S H Laidlaw ......................................................... 7 
J R Lomax ................................................................. 7 
I J Mackay ................................................................ 7 
G Morgan .................................................................. 6 
N R N Murthy ........................................................... 6 
Sir Simon Robertson ................................................. 7 
J L Thornton ............................................................. 6 
Sir Brian Williamson ................................................ 7 
1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2011 – eligible to attend 
5 Board Meetings. 
2 Retired as a Director on 27 May 2011 – eligible to attend 
4 Board Meetings. 
3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are separate and held by experienced full-
time Directors. There is a clear division of 
responsibilities at the head of the Company between 
the running of the Board and the executive 
responsibility for running HSBC’s business. The key 
responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the 
Group Chief Executive are set out below. 
Key responsibilities 
Group Chairman – D J Flint 
Appointed December 2010 
• Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness. 
• Develops relationships with governments, regulators and 
investors. 
• Leads the Group’s interactions on matters of public policy and 
regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial 
services industry. 
• Maintains corporate reputation and character. 
• Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief 
Executive. 
Group Chief Executive – S T Gulliver 
Appointed January 2011 
• Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans. 
• Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group 
Chairman, for recommendation to the Board. 
• As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic 
goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 
The Group Chief Executive has an office in 
London and in Hong Kong. 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent 
non-executive Director 
The key responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and 
senior independent non-executive Director are set 
out below.  
Key responsibilities 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive 
Director – Sir Simon Robertson
1
 
• Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or 
shareholders. 
• Supports the Group Chairman in his role. 
• Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors  
when necessary. 
• Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the  
Group Chairman. 
• Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. 
• Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which 
contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for 
which such contact would be inappropriate. 
1 Appointed senior independent non-executive Director in 
2007 and Deputy Chairman in December 2010. 
Board balance and independence of 
Directors 
The Board includes a strong presence of both 
executive and non-executive Directors and no 
individual or small group can dominate its decision 
making. The size of the Board is appropriate given 
the complexity and geographical spread of our 
business and the significant time demands placed on   
 
227 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
the non-executive Directors, particularly those who 
serve as members of Board committees. 
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition of the Board 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience 
required of Directors) necessary to address and 
challenge adequately key risks and issues that 
confront, or may confront, the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
changes. The Nomination Committee maintains a 
forward-looking schedule of potential candidates as 
Directors that takes into account the needs and 
developments of the Group’s businesses and the 
expected retirement dates of existing Directors. 
The Board considers all of the non-executive 
Directors to be independent in character and 
judgement. The Board has determined S A Catz, 
L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, 
J Faber, R A Fairhead, J W J Hughes-Hallett, 
W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, G Morgan, 
N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton 
and Sir Brian Williamson to be independent. The 
Board has determined L M L Cha to be independent. 
Her role as deputy chairman of, and former role as 
corporate relations adviser to, The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, were considered not 
to be material. When determining independence the 
Board considers that calculation of the length of 
service of a non-executive Director begins on the 
date of his or her first election by shareholders as a 
Director of HSBC Holdings. Given the complexity 
and geographical spread of our business, the 
experience of previous service on a subsidiary 
company board can be a considerable benefit and 
does not detract from a Director’s independence. In 
reaching its determination of each non-executive 
Director’s independence the Board has concluded 
that there are no relationships or circumstances 
which are likely to affect a Director’s judgement and 
any relationships or circumstances which could 
appear to do so were considered not to be material. 
In accordance with the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director 
determined by the Board to be independent has 
provided an annual confirmation of his or her 
independence to HSBC Holdings. 
Information and support  
The Board regularly reviews reports on progress 
against financial objectives, business developments 
and investor and external relations. The chairmen of 
Board committees and the Group Chief Executive 
report to each meeting of the Board on the activities 
of the committees since the previous Board meeting. 
The Board receives regular reports and presentations 
on strategy and developments in the global 
businesses and principal geographical areas. Regular 
reports are also provided to the Board and Board 
committees on the Group’s risk appetite profile, 
top and emerging risks, risk management, credit 
exposures and the Group’s loan portfolio, asset 
and liability management, liquidity, litigation, 
compliance and reputational issues. The agenda and 
supporting papers are distributed in advance of all 
Board and committee meetings to allow time for 
appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion 
at the meetings. All Directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information and may take 
independent professional advice if necessary at the 
Company’s expense. 
The Directors have free and open contact with 
management at all levels. Group Managing Directors 
and Group General Managers meet informally with 
Directors after Board meetings. When attending 
Board offsites and when travelling for other reasons, 
non-executive Directors are encouraged to take 
opportunities to see business operations at first hand 
and to meet management. 
Non-executive Directors have an open invitation 
to attend meetings of the GMB and the Risk 
Management Meeting to further enhance their 
understanding and awareness of our businesses and 
the senior leadership team. 
Induction and ongoing development 
Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, 
with particular emphasis on the systems of risk 
management and internal controls, are arranged for 
newly appointed Directors. The programmes consist 
of a series of meetings with other Directors and 
senior executives to enable new Directors to 
familiarise themselves with our strategy, risk 
appetite, operations and internal controls. Directors 
also receive comprehensive guidance on directors’ 
duties and liabilities. As part of the induction process 
the Group Company Secretary will coordinate the 
production of a development programme based 
on the individual Director’s needs. Induction 
programmes are also arranged for newly appointed 
members of committees.  
Directors are given opportunities to update 
and develop their skills and knowledge, through 
briefings by senior executives and externally run 
seminars throughout their directorship and while 
serving on committees. Focused in-house 
development programmes to enhance business 
awareness are arranged in conjunction with  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors / Corporate governance codes 
 
 
228 
scheduled Board meetings. Directors have access to 
internal training and development resources. 
A personalised approach to training and 
development of Directors is applied. Records of 
development activities are maintained by the Group 
Company Secretary for annual review by the Group 
Chairman with the Director concerned. 
Performance evaluation 
In November 2011, Oliver Wyman was 
commissioned to facilitate and report on the review 
of effectiveness of the Board, with particular focus 
on it meeting investor expectations and priorities, 
and to review progress made in the year since the 
previous review, which had focused on the Board’s 
risk management and governance responsibilities. 
Oliver Wyman’s report was prepared following 
interviews with Directors and senior members of 
management and a review of relevant documents. 
Factors assessed during Oliver Wyman’s review 
included the Board’s performance in key priority 
areas for investors including strategy, financial 
performance, risk, regulation, compensation, 
sustainability and corporate governance. 
The Oliver Wyman report concluded that 
the Board operates effectively with a number of 
important strengths and that significant progress had 
been made during 2011 to address recommendations 
made by Oliver Wyman in last year’s report. The 
report identified some areas where effectiveness 
could be enhanced. Oliver Wyman has provided and 
continues to provide consultancy services to the 
Group. 
The report is used by the Board in its 
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of 
its committees, and by the Group Chairman in his 
review of the individual performance of Directors. 
The Board will monitor implementation of actions 
arising from its 2011 performance evaluation. All 
actions arising from the Board’s 2010 performance 
evaluation have been implemented. 
It is the intention of the Board to continue to 
undertake an evaluation of its performance and that 
of its committees and individual Directors annually, 
with external input to the process at least every third 
year.  
Formal evaluation of the individual performance 
of each Director is undertaken annually by the Group 
Chairman using the findings of the performance 
evaluation process undertaken by the Board. During 
this evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the 
contribution of the Director and the time spent by 
them in performing their responsibilities. The Group 
Chairman has confirmed that all of the non-
executive Directors continue to perform effectively 
and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy 
Chairman and senior independent non-executive 
Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the 
performance of the Group Chairman. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election of 
Directors 
The Board may at any time appoint any person who 
is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total 
number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five. 
Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire 
at the Annual General Meeting following his or her 
appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but 
would not be taken into account in determining the 
number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at 
such meeting in accordance with the Articles of 
Association. The Board may appoint any Director to 
hold any employment or executive office and 
may revoke or terminate any such appointment. 
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a 
person a Director or remove any Director before the 
expiration of his period of office. On the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee 
and in compliance with provision B.7.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided 
that all of the Directors should be subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. Accordingly, all of the 
Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting and, with the exception of 
G Morgan and Sir Brian Williamson who are to 
retire, offer themselves for re-election. Each of the 
executive Directors is employed on a rolling contract 
which requires 12 months’ notice to be given by 
either party. None of the non-executive Directors has 
a service contract with HSBC. 
Relations with shareholders 
All Directors are encouraged to develop an 
understanding of the views of major shareholders. 
Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst 
presentations and other meetings with institutional 
investors and their representative bodies. Directors 
also meet representatives of institutional 
shareholders annually to discuss corporate 
governance matters.  
All executive Directors and certain other senior 
executives hold regular meetings with institutional 
investors. The Board receives a regular investor 
relations activity report which provides feedback 
from meetings with institutional shareholders and   
 
229 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
brokers, analysts’ forecasts, information from 
research reports and share price performance data. 
Twice each year the Board also receives a report 
from one of our corporate brokers on market views 
and investor relations.  
On several occasions during 2011, non-
executive Directors, including the senior 
independent non-executive Director, met or 
corresponded with institutional investors and their 
representatives to discuss governance, remuneration 
and sustainability. In particular there was extensive 
consultation on the structure of the Group 
Performance Share Plan, the long-term incentive 
plan introduced in May 2011, under which awards 
are made to executive Directors and senior 
executives.  
As senior independent non-executive Director, 
Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders 
should they have concerns which contact through the 
normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director or other 
executives cannot resolve or for which such contact 
would be inappropriate. He may be contacted 
through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ. 
Conflicts of interest, indemnification of 
Directors, relevant audit information and 
contracts of significance 
The Board has authority to approve Directors’ 
conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and 
has adopted a policy and procedures for the 
determination of terms of authorisation for such 
situations. The Board’s powers to authorise conflicts 
are operating effectively and the procedures are 
being followed. A review of situational conflicts 
which have been authorised from time to time and 
the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by the 
Board annually. 
Our Articles of Association provide that 
Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the 
assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third 
parties in respect of certain liabilities. Such 
indemnity provisions have been in place during the 
financial year but have not been utilised by the 
Directors. 
Each person who is a Director at the date of 
approval of this report confirms that so far as he or 
she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the auditor is unaware and the Director has 
taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given pursuant to 
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should 
be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to 
the provisions thereof. 
None of the Directors had, during the year or at 
the end of the year, a material interest, directly or 
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any 
HSBC company. 
Corporate governance codes 
We are committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. We have complied throughout the year 
with the applicable code provisions of The UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and the Code on Corporate 
Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that the 
Group Risk Committee (all the members of which 
are independent non-executive Directors), which was 
established in accordance with the recommendations 
of the Report on Governance in UK banks and other 
financial industry entities, is responsible for the 
oversight of internal controls (other than internal 
controls over financial reporting) and risk 
management systems (Code on Corporate 
Governance Practices provision C.3.3 paragraphs (f), 
(g) and (h)). If there were no Group Risk Committee, 
these matters would be the responsibility of the 
Group Audit Committee. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code is available at www.frc.org.uk and 
the Code on Corporate Governance Practices is 
available at www.hkex.com.hk. 
The Board has adopted a code of conduct for 
transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors. 
The code of conduct complies with The Model Code 
in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model 
Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of 
Listed Issuers (‘Hong Kong Model Code’) set out in 
the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has 
granted certain waivers from strict compliance with 
the Hong Kong Model Code. The waivers granted 
by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
primarily take into account accepted practices in the 
UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. 
Following a specific enquiry, each Director has 
confirmed he or she has complied with the code of 
conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities 
throughout the year.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Management Board / Group Audit Committee 
 
 
230 
Board committees 
Group Audit 
Committee
Group Risk 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Committee
Board
Group
Remuneration 
Committee
Non-executive 
responsibility for 
oversight of, and 
advice to the 
Board on, matters 
relating to financial 
reporting.
Non-executive 
responsibility for 
oversight of, and 
advice to the Board 
on, high level 
risk-related 
matters and risk 
governance.
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for setting the 
overarching 
principles, 
parameters and 
governance 
framework of 
the Group’s 
remuneration 
policy and the 
remuneration of 
senior executives.
Responsible for 
leading the 
process for Board 
appointments and 
for identifying and 
nominating, for 
approval by the 
Board, candidates 
for appointment to 
the Board.
Responsible for 
advising the Board, 
committees of 
the Board and 
executive 
management on 
corporate sustain-
ability polices, 
including environ-
mental, social and 
ethical issues.
Group
Management
Board
Executive 
management 
committee which 
is responsible for 
management and 
day-to-day running 
of HSBC under the 
direct authority of 
the Board.
KEY  ROLE
 
The Board has established a number of committees 
consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors 
and, in the case of the Corporate Sustainability 
Committee, co-opted non-director members. The 
key roles of the principal committees are described 
above. The Chairman of each non-executive Board 
committee reports to each meeting of the Board 
on the activities of the committee since the previous 
Board meeting. 
The terms of reference of the non-executive 
Board committees are available at 
www.hsbc.com/boardcommittees. Each non-
executive Board committee reviews its terms of 
reference annually. 
Appointments of Directors to each non-
executive Board committee are made for periods of 
up to three years, extendable by no more than two 
additional three-year periods. 
Group Management Board 
Members S T Gulliver (Chairman), A A Flockhart and 
I J Mackay, who are executive Directors, and 
A Almeida, S Assaf, R E T Bennett, A M Keir, 
S A Levey, M M Moses, S P O’Sullivan, 
B Robertson, P A Thurston and P T S Wong, 
all of whom are Group Managing Directors. 
The GMB meets frequently and exercises the 
powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so 
far as they concern the management and day-to-day 
running of HSBC Holdings. Matters reserved for 
approval by the Board are described on page 225. 
The GMB is a key element of our management 
reporting and control structure such that all of our 
line operations are accountable either to a member of 
the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, 
who in turn reports to the Group Chairman. The 
Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB. 
These align senior executives’ objectives and 
measures with the strategy and operating plans 
throughout HSBC. 
The Group Chief Executive (who is Chairman 
of the GMB) reports to each meeting of the Board on 
the activities of the GMB. 
Regular Risk Management Meetings, chaired by 
the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held to review the 
policy and guidelines for the management of risk 
within the Group. Further information on the Risk 
Management Meeting can be found on page 234. 
Group Audit Committee 
Members
1
 Meetings attended
2
J D Coombe (Chairman) 7 
M K T Cheung 7 
R A Fairhead
3
 3 
J R Lomax 6 
Meetings held in 2011 7 
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 During the year two meetings were held at short notice. 
3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 
The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) has non-
executive responsibility for oversight of and advice   
 
231 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
to the Board on matters relating to financial 
reporting.  
The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, 
J D Coombe, R A Fairhead and J R Lomax are 
independent according to SEC criteria and may be 
regarded as audit committee financial experts for the 
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
and have recent and relevant financial experience for 
the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The governance structure for the oversight of 
financial reporting is set out below. Similar 
governance arrangements are in place in major 
operating subsidiaries. 
Governance 
Authority Membership Responsibilities 
Board  Executive and non-
executive Directors  
 • Responsible for financial statements 
• Appoints senior financial officers 
• Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters 
GAC  Independent non-executive 
Directors 
 • Monitors the integrity of financial statements 
• Oversees the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their 
effectiveness  
• Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
• Reviews the Company’s financial and accounting policies and practices 
• Advises the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and 
remuneration of the external auditor  
Subsidiary board 
committees 
responsible for 
oversight of 
financial 
reporting 
 Independent non-executive 
directors and other 
independent members 
 • Provide certification to the GAC or intermediate audit committee on financial statements and 
internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries 
 
 
Committee’s activities 
The GAC undertook the following activities in the 
discharge of its responsibilities:  
• Internal controls over financial reporting. 
The Committee satisfied itself that the system of 
internal control and compliance over financial 
reporting was effective through regular reports 
from the Group Finance Director, the Group 
Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head 
of Internal Audit. The Committee reviewed 
minutes of the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) 
and executive committee meetings including the 
GMB, Risk Management Meetings and the 
Disclosure Committee. The Committee 
undertook an annual review of the effectiveness 
of HSBC’s system of internal control over 
financial reporting. HSBC’s internal control 
system is described on page 240. The 
Committee also reviewed the adequacy of 
resources, qualifications and experience of staff 
in the finance function. Reports were submitted 
to the Committee on internal control matters in 
relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group 
Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group 
Chief Accounting Officer and other senior 
executives attended Committee meetings. The 
Committee had regular discussions with the 
external auditor and the Group Head of Internal 
Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for 
discussions to take place without management 
present. 
• Effectiveness of the internal audit function. 
The Committee satisfied itself that the internal 
audit function was effective and adequately 
resourced through regular meetings held with, 
and reports provided by, the Group Head of 
Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including 
the adequacy and effectiveness of resources. 
The Committee reviewed an annual report on 
the activities of the internal audit function and 
planned activities for the following year. 
• Legal and regulatory environment. The 
Committee received regular updates on the 
application of changes in law, regulation, 
accounting policies and practices and regulatory 
developments, including reports on Basel III, 
the recommendations of the Independent 
Commission on Banking, regulation of Global 
Systematically Important Financial Institutions, 
and the Dodd-Frank Act. Regular reports were 
received on litigation. The Committee received 
reports on meetings with the FSA as part of the 
FSA’s close and continuous supervisory regime.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Audit Committee / Group Risk Committee  
 
 
232 
• External auditor. The Committee provided 
oversight of the external auditor through regular 
meetings with the external auditor, including 
meetings without management present. Reports 
were received on the external auditor’s strategy 
in relation to the audit of financial statements 
and the progress of the audit. The Committee 
has approved policies on the provision of non-
audit services by the external auditor and its 
affiliates and on the employment by HSBC of 
former employees of the external auditor or 
its affiliates. The Committee reviewed the 
independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor through meetings with the external 
auditor, annual reports on employment of 
former employees of the external auditor and its 
affiliates and quarterly reports on provision of 
non-audit services. The external auditor 
provided written confirmation of its 
independence under industry standards. The 
Committee approved the remuneration and 
terms of engagement of, and recommended to 
the Board the re-appointment of, the external 
auditor. 
• Financial reporting. The Committee advised 
the Board on meeting its external financial 
reporting obligations through a review of 
financial statements, interim reports and interim 
management statements prior to approval by the 
Board. The Committee endorsed for inclusion in 
the financial statements the going concern 
statement and the statement of compliance with 
the provisions of the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Committee received 
reports on proposed changes to the Group’s 
disclosures in the financial statements and the 
adequacy of procedures to identify transactions 
and matters requiring disclosure under certain 
accounting standards. A review of accounting 
policies and practices, including approval of the 
critical accounting policies, was undertaken. 
The Committee considered accounting 
provisioning for, and disclosure of, certain 
litigation and regulatory matters with external 
legal counsel providing a status update on these 
matters. The Committee reviewed minutes of 
the Disclosure Committee. A presentation was 
received from the Global Head of Tax on 
current tax issues. The disclosure of the results 
of the European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) 
EU-wide stress testing programme was 
considered. Reports were received on economic 
hedges which do not meet the requirements of 
hedge accounting.  
• Terms of reference and effectiveness of the 
Committee. The Committee undertook a 
review of its terms of reference and of its own 
effectiveness. Changes were made to the terms 
of reference to minimise the overlap of 
responsibilities between the GAC and the GRC. 
In addition to the scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the 
Group Finance Director, the Group Chief 
Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
the Group Head of Internal Audit, other senior 
executives and the external auditor. 
Terms of reference and subsidiary company 
audit oversight 
Since May 2011, the GAC’s responsibility for non-
executive oversight of internal controls has been 
limited to oversight of internal controls over 
financial reporting, as a consequence of changes 
made to the terms of reference of the GRC and the 
GAC to minimise the overlap between the 
committees. 
To ensure consistency of scope and approach by 
subsidiary company audit committees, the GAC has 
established core terms of reference to guide 
subsidiary companies when adopting terms of 
reference for their audit committees. The 
Committee’s endorsement is required for any 
proposed material changes to subsidiary audit 
committee terms of reference and for appointments 
to such committees.  
A forum for the chairmen of our principal 
subsidiary committees with responsibility for non-
executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-
related matters is held to facilitate a consistent 
approach to the way in which these subsidiary 
committees operate. The last forum was held in 
November 2010 and the next will be held in June 
2012. 
Arrangements relating to the external 
auditor 
The Committee has recommended to the Board that 
KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect 
of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG 
Audit Plc and its affiliates (‘KPMG’) for each of the 
past three years is disclosed in Note 8 on the 
Financial Statements.  
The Board has approved, on the 
recommendation of the Committee, a policy for 
the employment by HSBC of former employees   
 
233 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
of KPMG and an annual report is received by the 
Committee on such former employees who are 
employed and the number in senior positions. This 
report enables the Committee to consider whether 
there has been any impairment, or appearance of 
impairment, of the external auditor’s judgement or 
independence in respect of the audit.  
The policies for the pre-approval of specific 
services that may be provided by the principal 
auditor are kept under review by the Committee and 
amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of 
ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner 
from the cumulative knowledge and experience of 
our auditor, while also ensuring that our external 
auditor maintains the necessary degree of 
independence and objectivity. These pre-approval 
policies apply to all services where any HSBC 
company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary 
or addressee of the service, and has selected or 
influenced the choice of KPMG. All services 
provided by KPMG during 2011 were pre-approved 
by the Committee or were entered into under pre-
approval policies established by the Committee.  
The pre-approved services relate to regulatory 
reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types 
of attestation reports, the provision of advice and 
other non-audit services allowed under SEC 
independence rules. The services fall into the 
categories of audit services, audit-related services, 
tax services and other services. 
Group Risk Committee 
The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on 
high-level risk-related matters and risk governance 
and for non-executive oversight of risk management 
and internal controls (other than over financial 
reporting). 
Members
1
 Meetings attended
R A Fairhead (Chairman)
2
 4 
J D Coombe
3
 6 
J W J Hughes-Hallett 5 
J R Lomax 5 
Meetings held in 2011 6 
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. Resumed 
the role of Chairman in January 2012. 
3 Chaired all meetings in 2011 as acting Chairman.  
John Trueman, a non-executive director of 
HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk and audit 
committees, has been invited by the GRC to attend 
its meetings. His experience of risk-related matters 
in the financial services industry is valued by the 
Committee. 
Governance 
All of HSBC’s activities involve, to varying degrees, 
the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risk or combinations of risks. The 
Board, advised by the Committee, requires and 
encourages a strong risk governance culture which 
shapes the Group’s attitude to risk. The Board and 
the Committee oversee the maintenance and 
development of a strong risk management 
framework by the continual monitoring of the risk 
environment and top and emerging risks facing the 
Group, and mitigating actions planned and taken. 
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
other than controls over financial reporting, which 
are monitored by the GAC. 
The governance structure for the management 
of risk at HSBC is set out below. Similar governance 
arrangements are in place in major operating 
subsidiaries.
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Risk Committee 
 
 
234 
Authority Membership Responsibilities 
Board  Executive and non-executive 
Directors 
 • Approves risk appetite, strategy and performance targets 
for the Group 
• Approves appointment of senior risk officers 
• Delegates authority for risk management 
GRC  Independent non-executive Directors  • Advises the Board on: 
– risk appetite and alignment with strategy 
– alignment of remuneration with risk appetite (through 
the Group Remuneration Committee) 
– risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and 
disposals 
• Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal controls (other than over 
financial reporting) 
• Oversees the maintenance and development of a 
supportive culture in relation to the management of risk 
Risk Management Meeting  Group Chief Risk Officer 
Group Chief Executive 
Group Finance Director 
Senior management 
 • Formulates high-level Group risk policy 
• Exercises delegated risk management authority 
• Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls 
• Monitors all categories of risk and determines appropriate 
mitigating action  
Global Risk Management Board  Group Chief Risk Officer 
Chief Risk Officers of HSBC’s global 
businesses and regions 
Heads of risk areas within the Global 
Risk Function  
 • Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group 
Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the 
Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their 
execution 
• Oversees consistent approach to accountability for, and 
mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function  
Subsidiary board committees  
responsible for risk-related matters 
 Independent non-executive directors 
and other independent members 
 • Provides certification to the GRC or intermediate risk 
committee on risk-related matters and internal controls 
(other than over financial reporting) of relevant 
subsidiaries 
 
Risk reporting and monitoring 
The GRC regularly monitors:  
• the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile against 
key performance/risk indicators, as set out in the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-
wide, global business and regional basis;  
• the top and emerging risks facing the Group; 
and 
• the risk profiles for separate categories of risk 
within the Group’s business identified in the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-
wide, global business and regional basis;  
and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by 
management.  
Reports on these items are presented at each 
meeting of the Committee. Regular reports from the 
Risk Management Meeting, which is the executive 
body responsible for overseeing risk, are also 
presented. 
In carrying out its responsibilities the 
Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief 
Risk Officer. The Committee also receives regular 
presentations from the Group Head of Compliance, 
Group Head of Internal Audit and other business, 
function and risk heads. 
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is a key component of our management 
of risk. The Board, advised by the GRC, approves 
the Group’s risk appetite, which describes the types 
and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to 
accept in executing our strategy and which is set out 
in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement. Embedding 
the Risk Appetite Statement and the related 
monitoring and reporting framework across the 
Group has continued to be an area of significant 
focus in 2011 with initiatives undertaken to establish 
and develop: 
• Risk Appetite Statements for regions and global 
businesses, which are aligned with Group 
strategy and the Group’s risk appetite; and 
• reporting of risk appetite profile against the key 
performance/risk indicators set out in those Risk 
Appetite Statements to the Risk Management 
Meeting and to the GRC.   
 
235 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by 
the following core characteristics: 
Risk appetite: core characteristics 
• Strong balance sheet 
• Strong brand 
• Healthy capital position 
• Conservative liquidity management 
• Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns 
• Robust Group structure of separate legal entities  
• The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term 
earnings growth 
• Risk diversification 
These core characteristics are applied to define 
the Risk Appetite Statements on a Group-wide, 
global business and regional level. The relevant 
strategic and operational objectives, within which we 
expect businesses and regions to operate, are 
expressed quantitatively across the following 
dimensions: 
 
 
Strategic and operational objectives 
Earnings 
  1. Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken 
  2. Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal Economic Capital requirements  
  3. Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 
  4. Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios  
Capital and liquidity 
  5. Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet 
Impairments and 
expected losses 
  6. Manage impairments and expected losses within the Group’s tolerance 
  7. Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite 
  8. Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 
Risk category and 
diversification 
  9. Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical; businesses with 
local customers where we have local scale, and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness 
Scenario and stress 
testing 
10. Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Group’s capital 
adequacy and strategic plans 
 
Top and emerging risks 
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is 
integral to our approach to risk management. We 
define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk 
which has arisen across any of our risk categories, 
regions or global businesses and has the potential to 
have a material impact on our financial results or our 
reputation and the sustainability of our long-term 
business model, and which may form and crystallise 
within a one year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging 
risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes 
which may form and crystallise beyond a one year 
horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a 
material effect on our long-term strategy. 
The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with 
management at each of its meetings. Current top and 
emerging risks, which are summarised below, are 
viewed as falling under three broad categories: 
macro-economic and geopolitical; macro-prudential, 
regulatory and legal risks to our business model; and 
risks related to our business operations, governance 
and internal control systems. 
Further details of top and emerging risks 
identified through our risk management processes 
are set out on page 99.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Risk Committee 
 
 
236 
Categories Top and emerging risks 
Macro-economic and geopolitical risk 
 
• Eurozone – risk of sovereign default 
• Eurozone member departing from the currency union 
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our 
business model 
• Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group 
profitability 
• Regulatory investigations and requirements relating to conduct of business 
and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand 
• Dispute risk 
Risks related to our business operations, governance and 
internal control systems 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn 
• Internet crime and fraud 
• Social media risk 
• Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational 
risk 
• Information security risk 
 
Stress testing 
Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme 
is central to the monitoring of top and emerging 
risks. It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business 
and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme 
but plausible events. 
The outcome of the testing and analysis is also 
used to assess the potential impact of the relevant 
scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital 
compared with its supply.  
Management develops action plans to mitigate 
risks identified. The extent to which those action 
plans are implemented depends on management’s 
evaluation of the risks and their potential 
consequences, taking into account HSBC’s risk 
appetite.  
Further information on scenario stress testing is 
set out on page 188. 
Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three 
main classifications: regulatory scenarios; Group-
wide business scenarios; and specific business or 
exposure scenarios. 
During the year, the GRC reviewed the outcome 
of Group-wide stress tests and scenario analysis 
undertaken in accordance with the requirements of 
the FSA, the EBA and the IMF involving analysis of 
capital levels and requirements in various stress 
scenarios. We satisfied the required thresholds in 
each of these tests. The GRC also considered the 
outcome of stress tests undertaken on specific 
business risks and exposures, including exposure to 
eurozone counterparties and sovereigns and to the 
residential mortgage business in Hong Kong, and the 
implementation of action plans to mitigate risks 
where appropriate. 
Internal Audit has conducted a review of stress 
testing within the Group including model 
development, validation and use, and the 
methodology, governance and management of 
enterprise-wide stress testing. The development of 
HSBC’s stress testing and scenario testing analysis 
programme will continue to be an area of focus for 
the Committee. 
Committee activities  
The GRC undertook the following key activities in 
the discharge of its responsibilities:  
• Oversight of executive risk management. 
Regular reports and presentations were received 
from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at 
each meeting a presentation of a ‘risk map’, 
which provided detailed analysis, on a Group-
wide, global business and regional basis, of risk 
profiles for categories of risk identified in the 
Group Risk Appetite Statement, and of a top and 
emerging risks report which summarised 
proposed mitigating actions for identified risks. 
The Committee reviewed minutes of the GAC, 
Group Remuneration Committee and executive 
committee meetings including the GMB, the 
Risk Management Meeting and the Group 
Reputational Risk Policy Committee. Reports 
were received from the Group General Counsel 
on forward-looking legal risks, the Group Head 
of Compliance on forward-looking compliance 
risks and from the Group Remuneration 
Committee and Head of Group Performance and 
Reward. Updates were received on the on-going 
investigations by US regulatory and law 
enforcement authorities and US dispute risk, and 
compliance matters in the US. The Group 
Finance Director and the Group Chief 
Accounting Officer regularly attended meetings   
237 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
of the Committee and other senior financial, 
risk, internal audit, legal and compliance 
executives attended as appropriate. 
• Stress testing. The Committee reviewed the 
outcome of stress tests as referred to in the 
section headed ‘Stress Testing’ on page 236. 
• Review of effectiveness of internal controls. 
A series of presentations were made, and reports 
submitted by, the Group Chief Risk Officer and 
other business and function heads to the 
Committee on the risk control framework in 
their respective business or function. Reports 
from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the 
internal audit process and weaknesses identified 
in internal controls (other than over financial 
reporting) were presented to the Committee, as 
well as reports from the external auditor and 
regulators relating to the internal control system. 
The Committee undertook an annual review 
process of HSBC’s system of internal controls, 
other than over financial reporting. HSBC’s 
internal control system is described on 
page 240. The Committee had regular 
discussions at meetings with the external auditor 
and the Group Head of Internal Audit, with 
opportunities at each meeting for discussions to 
take place without management present. 
• Risk appetite. The Group Risk Appetite 
Statement for 2011 was recommended to the 
Board for approval following consideration of 
the alignment of risk appetite and Group 
strategy. The Committee undertook regular 
reviews of the Group’s risk profile against the 
key performance indicators set out in the Risk 
Appetite Statement and considered the need for 
any adjustment to the risk appetite. Reports and 
presentations were received from the Group 
Chief Risk Officer, including on liquidity and 
capital management and the results of HSBC’s 
stress testing and scenario analysis programme.  
• Alignment of remuneration with risk 
appetite. Presentations and reports were 
received on remuneration-related proposals to 
assist the Committee in giving advice to the 
Group Remuneration Committee on the 
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. 
The GRC considered risk-related issues to be 
taken into account by the Group Remuneration 
Committee, including when determining the 
total variable pay funding pool for the 2011 
performance year. The funding methodology, 
including the proposed ratio between variable 
pay funding, dividends and capital retained, was 
also considered. The Committee received 
presentations on the procedure for determining 
individual variable pay awards including the 
risk assessment process for identifying matters 
for which risk-related adjustments may be made 
to individual and team awards. The process by 
which an individual’s adherence to HSBC 
Values and the Group’s risk-related policies and 
procedures is taken into account in performance 
assessment and determination of variable pay 
was also presented to the Committee. The 
Committee considered the framework to be 
used by the Group Remuneration Committee 
in exercising its discretion in delivering 
performance awards for the 2011 performance 
year and the proposed design of the performance 
scorecard for the 2012 performance year. The 
Committee provided advice and feedback on 
risk-related matters to the Group Remuneration 
Committee where appropriate. 
• Top and emerging risks. In monitoring top and 
emerging risks the Committee received regular 
reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer 
and the Group Head of Compliance as well 
as other members of senior management on 
risks identified and developments in the Group’s 
business, including the changing regulatory 
environment and global market risk such as the 
implications of the eurozone crisis and the 
impact of the tightening of liquidity in the 
money markets. The Committee reviewed 
minutes of executive committee meetings 
including meetings of the GMB, the Risk 
Management Meeting and Group Reputational 
Risk Policy Committee. 
• Acquisitions. The Committee received reports 
and presentations on risk issues relating to 
proposed strategic acquisitions and advised 
the Board appropriately. The Group Head of 
Mergers and Acquisitions and other members 
of senior management involved in the proposed 
acquisitions attended meetings of the Committee 
as appropriate.  
• Terms of reference and Committee 
effectiveness. The Committee undertook a 
review of its terms of reference and of its own 
effectiveness. Changes were made to the 
Committee’s terms of reference to minimise the 
overlap of responsibilities between the GRC 
and the GAC. 
In addition to the scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the 
Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of 
Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, other 
senior executives and the external auditor.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Remuneration Committee / Nomination Committee / Corporate Sustainability Committee 
 
 
238 
Professional external advice on US compliance 
matters has been provided by Promontory Financial 
Group, US financial consultants. 
Terms of reference and subsidiary company 
risk oversight 
Since May 2011, the GRC has been responsible for 
non-executive oversight of risk management and 
internal controls, other than internal controls over 
financial reporting, as a consequence of changes 
made to the terms of reference of the GRC and the 
GAC to minimise the overlap between the 
committees. 
To ensure consistency of scope and approach 
by subsidiary company committees, the GRC 
has established core terms of reference to guide 
subsidiary companies when adopting terms of 
reference for their non-executive risk committees 
(or audit committees if those committees are also 
responsible for risk oversight). The Committee’s 
endorsement is required for any proposed material 
changes to subsidiary risk committee terms of 
reference and for appointments to such committees. 
A forum for the chairmen of our principal 
subsidiary committees with responsibility for non-
executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-
related matters is held to facilitate a consistent 
approach to the way in which these subsidiary 
committees operate.  The last forum was held in 
November 2010 and the next will be held in June 
2012. 
Group Remuneration Committee 
Members
1
 Meetings attended
2
J L Thornton (Chairman) 8 
J D Coombe 9 
W S H Laidlaw 9 
G Morgan 8 
Meetings held in 2011 9 
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 During the year two meetings were held at short notice. 
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for approving remuneration policy. As part of its 
role, it considers the terms of bonus plans, share 
plans, other long-term incentive plans and the 
individual remuneration packages of executive 
Directors and other senior Group employees, 
including all in positions of significant influence 
and those having an impact on our risk profile and in 
doing so takes into account the pay and conditions 
across the Group. No directors are involved in 
deciding their own remuneration. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out 
on pages 256 to 274.
Nomination Committee 
Members
1
 Meetings attended
Sir Simon Robertson
2
 (Chairman) 4 
D J Flint
3
 4 
R A Fairhead
4
 3 
J W J Hughes-Hallett 4 
Sir Brian Williamson 4 
Meetings held in 2011 4 
1 Since 2 December 2011, all members are independent non-
executive Directors. 
2 Appointed Chairman 2 December 2011. 
3 Retired as Chairman and a member of the Committee on 
2 December 2011. 
4 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 
On 2 December 2011, Sir Simon Robertson was 
appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
in succession to D J Flint who stepped down from 
the Nomination Committee. D J Flint has been 
invited to continue to attend meetings of the 
Committee.  
Committee activities 
The Committee undertook the following key 
activities in the discharge of its responsibilities:  
• Appointments of new Director: The 
Committee oversaw the process for the 
appointment of L M L Cha as a Director. 
L M L Cha has been deputy chairman of The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
since 2 March 2007 and was therefore well 
known to members of the Board prior to her 
appointment as a Director. Neither external 
consultants nor advertising were considered 
necessary in relation to this appointment. 
• Board appointment process. The Committee 
leads the process for Board appointments, 
with the support of external consultants as 
appropriate, and has satisfied itself that 
appropriate plans are in place for orderly 
succession to the Board reflecting an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience 
on the Board. 
• Forward planning. The Committee maintains 
a forward-looking schedule of potential 
candidates for appointment to the Board that 
takes into account the needs and development 
of the Group’s businesses and the expected 
retirement dates of current Directors. 
• Size, structure and composition. The 
Committee monitored the size, structure and 
composition of the Board through consideration 
of the skills, knowledge and experience required 
of the Board and the skills, knowledge and   
 
 
239 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
experience of the current Directors. The 
Committee considered the re-election of 
Directors at the Annual General Meeting and on 
the recommendation of the Committee, the 
Board has decided that all Directors should be 
subject to re-election by shareholders in 2012. 
• Gender diversity. The Committee reviewed 
Lord Davies of Abersoch’s report ‘Women on 
Boards’ and amendments to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The benefits of diversity 
continue to influence succession planning and 
are a key criteria in the instructions to external 
search consultants. 
• Terms of reference and Committee 
effectiveness. The Committee undertook a 
review of its terms of reference and amendments 
were made to make explicit reference to the 
need to have regard to the benefits of diversity 
when identifying suitable candidates for 
appointment to the Board. The effectiveness of 
the Committee was reviewed as part of the 
Board’s performance evaluation.  
Before recommending an appointment to the 
Board, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience of the Board and, in light 
of this, and taking into account the needs of the 
Group’s businesses, identifies the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
Candidates are considered on merit against this 
criteria. Care is taken to ensure that appointees 
have enough time to devote to us. Prospective 
Directors are asked to identify any significant other 
commitments and confirm they have sufficient time 
to discharge what is expected of them. 
Corporate Sustainability Committee 
Members Meetings attended
N R N Murthy (Chairman) 4 
L M L Cha
1
 3 
V H C Cheng
2
 1 
G V I Davis
3
 4 
Lord May
3
 3 
Dame Mary Marsh
3
 4 
Meetings held in 2011 4 
1 Appointed a member on 3 May 2011. Eligible to attend 
3 meetings. 
2 Retired as a Director on 27 May 2011. Eligible to attend 
2 meetings. 
3 Non-Director members of the Committee. 
Sustainability governance 
The Corporate Sustainability Committee is 
responsible for overseeing the Group’s Corporate 
Sustainability policies (principally environmental, 
social and ethical matters) and for advising the 
Board, committees of the Board and executive 
management on such matters.  
HSBC has a Corporate Sustainability 
department within Group Head Office and in each 
of our major regions and countries of operation. 
At an operational level, implementation of our 
sustainability policies is managed primarily by 
Group Corporate Sustainability, Group Human 
Resources and Global Risk. 
HSBC reports on progress in developing and 
implementing our sustainability strategy annually 
in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is 
independently verified and prepared using the Global 
Reporting Initiative. PricewaterhouseCoopers 
verified the Group’s commitment to carbon 
neutrality and adherence to the Equator Principles. 
The HSBC Sustainability Report 2011 will be issued 
on 25 May 2012 and will be available at 
www.hsbc.com/sustainability. 
Corporate sustainability  
At HSBC, we recognise that environmental, social 
and economic issues can affect the Group’s long-
term success as a business. For us, corporate 
sustainability means achieving sustainable profit 
growth so that we can continue to reward 
shareholders and employees, build long-lasting 
relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes 
and duties in those countries where we operate, and 
invest in communities for future growth.  
Our continuing financial success depends, in 
part, on our ability to identify and address certain 
factors which present risks or opportunities for the 
business. These can affect our reputation, drive 
employee engagement, help manage the risks of 
lending, leverage savings through eco-efficiency and 
secure new revenue streams. They generally fall into 
one or more of the four broad areas discussed below. 
Business finance 
We aim to build long-term customer relationships 
around the world through the provision of a 
consistent and high-quality service and customer 
experience. We use the benefits of our scale, 
financial strength, geographical reach and strong 
brand value to achieve this. 
We aim to take advantage of the opportunities 
and manage the risks presented by emerging global 
trends by developing sustainable business models to 
address them. We understand that the world is 
changing; in 2011 the world’s population was 
estimated to have passed seven billion people, 
compared to approximately three billion just  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Corporate Sustainability Committee // Internal control 
 
 
240 
50 years earlier; people are also living longer – the 
percentage of the global population aged 65 years or 
older is now estimated to be about 7.5% of the total 
population, compared with about 5% 50 years ago. 
Increasing urbanisation is also a significant trend 
with over half the world’s population now living in 
cities. The effects of continued population and 
economic growth are reflected in rising atmospheric 
CO
2
 levels and high commodity prices, and are 
raising concerns over potential resource constraints. 
HSBC will continue to play a leading role in shaping 
the market response to these challenges, identifying 
how business can adapt in ways that bring both 
social and environmental benefits, while providing 
viable economic returns. In 2011, we continued to 
research the likely effects that climate change, and 
the responses to it, will have on our business and 
those of our customers. For example we published 
research reports into ‘The World in 2050’ and 
‘Scoring Climate Change Risk – Which countries 
are most vulnerable?’ 
Operational environmental efficiency 
We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on 
addressing and responding to issues associated with 
climate change, including energy use, water and 
waste management. This issue has the potential to 
affect materially our customers and, by extension, 
our long-term success, introducing new risks to 
business activity. At the end of 2011, we committed 
to a series of targets stretching through to 2020, 
which will further reduce HSBC’s impact on the 
environment. 
Community investment  
We have a long-standing commitment to the 
communities in which we operate. Many of our key 
markets are emerging economies. Our operations 
bring benefits to our host countries through tax 
contributions, and to local people and businesses 
through employment, training, purchasing and 
investment. Beyond our core business, we aim to 
encourage social and economic opportunity through 
community investment activities. 
Our focus is on education and the environment 
because we believe they are essential building blocks 
for the development of communities and are 
prerequisites for economic growth. These 
philanthropic programmes aim to involve employees 
in the work of local NGOs and charities. Our 
global education programmes focus on helping 
disadvantaged children, promoting financial literacy 
and environmental education and understanding. Our 
flagship US$100m environmental programme, the 
HSBC Climate Partnership, came to an end at the 
close of 2011. Over the last five years we have 
worked alongside The Climate Group, Earthwatch, 
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and WWF 
on tackling climate change. The Climate Partnership 
has created a global community of 2,233 HSBC 
employees, called Climate Champions, who have 
conducted research in the field and applied this 
learning to our business. The Partnership also 
benefitted from 63,000 days of volunteering HSBC 
colleagues. 
In 2011, we donated a total of US$96m to 
community investment projects (2010: US$108m). 
Employee issues 
‘Employee engagement’ describes employees’ 
emotional and intellectual commitment to their 
organisation and its success and is critical to the 
long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest 
quality of financial services. Our Global People 
Survey shows that employees value our commitment 
to sustainable business practices and view us as 
being a leader in this regard. In 2011, 81% of 
colleagues said they were satisfied with the actions 
HSBC is taking to embed sustainability (e.g. 
environmental and social issues) into the way we 
run our business. 
Sustainability risk 
Our approach to managing sustainability risk is 
detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 210. 
Internal control 
The Directors are responsible for internal control 
in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Procedures have been designed for safeguarding 
assets against unauthorised use or disposal; for 
maintaining proper accounting records; and for the 
reliability and usefulness of financial information 
used within the business or for publication. Such 
procedures are designed to manage and mitigate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. 
The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to 
discharge its obligations under the Handbook of 
Rules and Guidance issued by the FSA, HSBC’s 
lead regulator. 
The key procedures that the Directors have 
established are designed to provide effective internal 
control within HSBC and accord with the Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code on corporate governance issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council. Such procedures 
for the ongoing identification, evaluation and   
 
 
241 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
management of the significant risks faced by HSBC 
have been in place throughout the year and up to 
27 February 2012, the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2011. In the case of companies 
acquired during the year, the internal controls in 
place are being reviewed against HSBC’s 
benchmarks and integrated into HSBC’s processes. 
Key internal control procedures include the 
following: 
• Delegation of authority within limits set by 
the Board. Authority to operate the various 
subsidiaries and responsibilities for financial 
performance against plans and for capital 
expenditure are delegated to their respective 
chief executive officers within limits set by the 
Board. Delegation of authority from the Board 
to individuals requires those individuals to 
maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment 
of significant responsibilities and to oversee 
the establishment and maintenance of systems 
of control appropriate to the business. The 
appointment of executives to the most senior 
positions within HSBC requires the approval 
of the Board. 
• Group standards. Functional, operating, 
financial reporting and certain management 
reporting standards are established by global 
function management committees, for 
application across the whole of HSBC. These 
are supplemented by operating standards set by 
functional and local management as required for 
the type of business and geographical location 
of each subsidiary. 
• Risk identification and monitoring. Systems 
and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, 
control and report on the major risks including 
credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial 
management, model, reputational, pension, 
strategic, sustainability and operational risk 
(including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, 
fiduciary, information security, security and 
fraud, systems and people risk). Exposure to 
these risks is monitored by risk management 
committees, asset and liability committees and 
executive committees in subsidiaries and, for 
HSBC as a whole, by the GMB. Risk 
Management Meetings, chaired by the Group 
Chief Risk Officer, are held in each month 
(except August) to address asset, liability and 
risk management issues. The minutes of these 
meetings are submitted to the GAC, the GRC 
and the Board. 
• Global Operational Risk and Control 
Committee. The Global Operational Risk and 
Control Committee (‘GORCC’), which reports 
to the Risk Management Meeting, meets at least 
quarterly to monitor HSBC’s operational risk 
profile and review the effective implementation 
of the Group’s operational risk management 
framework. The GORCC receives quarterly 
reports on the Group’s operational risk profile, 
including performance against risk appetite, top 
and emerging risks, control issues, operational 
risk loss events and key risk indicators. 
• Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure 
Committee reviews material public disclosures 
made by HSBC Holdings for any material 
errors, misstatements or omissions. The 
membership of the Disclosure Committee, 
which is chaired by the Group Company 
Secretary, includes the Heads of the Finance, 
Legal, Risk, Compliance, Corporate 
Communications, Investor Relations and 
Internal Audit functions and representatives 
from the principal regions and global 
businesses. The integrity of disclosures is 
underpinned by structures and processes within 
the Finance and Risk functions that support 
expert and rigorous analytical review of 
financial reporting complemented by certified 
reviews by Heads of global businesses, global 
functions and certain legal entities. 
• Financial reporting. The Group financial 
reporting process for preparing the consolidated 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 is controlled 
using documented accounting policies and 
reporting formats, supported by a chart of 
accounts with detailed instructions and guidance 
on reporting requirements, issued by Group 
Finance to all reporting entities within the 
Group in advance of each reporting period end. 
The submission of financial information from 
each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject 
to certification by the responsible financial 
officer, and analytical review procedures at 
reporting entity and Group levels. 
• Changes in market conditions/practices. 
Processes are in place to identify new risks 
arising from changes in market conditions/ 
practices or customer behaviours, which could 
expose us to heightened risk of loss or 
reputational damage. During 2011, attention was 
focused on: 
– embedding further risk appetite and stress 
testing into the business of HSBC through 
refining processes around risk identification 
and forward-looking risks;  
– the top and emerging risk process prompted  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal control / Going concern / Employees  
 
 
242 
a number of reviews and special papers on 
key risks, which were presented to the Risk 
Management Meeting, GRC and Board;  
– managing geopolitical risk and ongoing 
instability in the eurozone; 
– managing and mitigating the uncertain 
economic risks within major markets 
particularly in the US;  
– a single name concentration risk process for 
HSBC’s larger corporate exposures;  
– the Group’s global wholesale risk 
aggregation system which has been 
implemented Group-wide; 
– the mitigation of information risks; and 
– enhancement of polices and practices 
relevant to the prevention of financial 
crimes. 
• Strategic plans. Periodic strategic plans are 
prepared for global businesses, support 
functions and certain geographies within the 
framework of the Group’s strategy. Rolling 
operating plans, informed by detailed analysis of 
risk appetite describing the types and quantum 
of risk that we are prepared to take in executing 
our strategy, are prepared and adopted by all 
major HSBC operating companies and set out 
the key business initiatives and the likely 
financial effects of those initiatives. 
• Governance arrangements. Governance 
arrangements are in place to provide oversight 
of, and advice to the Board on, material risk-
related matters including assurance that risk 
analytical models are fit for purpose, used 
accordingly and complemented by both model-
specific and enterprise-wide stress tests that 
evaluate the impact of severe yet plausible 
events and other unusual circumstances not fully 
captured by quantitative models. 
• IT operations. Centralised functional control 
is exercised over all IT developments and 
operations. Common systems are employed for 
similar business processes wherever practicable.  
• Functional management. Global functional 
management is responsible for setting policies, 
procedures and standards for the following 
risks: credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial 
management, model, reputational, pension 
strategic, sustainability and operational risk 
(including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, 
fiduciary, information security, security and 
fraud, systems and people risk). Authorities to 
enter into credit and market risk exposures are 
delegated with limits to line management of 
Group companies. The concurrence of the 
appropriate global function is required, however, 
to credit proposals with specified higher risk 
characteristics. Credit and market risks are 
measured and reported on in subsidiaries and 
aggregated for review of risk concentrations on 
a Group-wide basis. 
• Reputational risk. Policies to guide subsidiary 
companies and management at all levels in the 
conduct of business to safeguard the Group’s 
reputation are established by the Board and the 
GMB, subsidiary company boards, Board 
committees and senior management. 
Reputational risks can arise from environmental, 
social or governance issues, as a consequence 
of operational risk events or as a result of 
employees acting in a manner inconsistent with 
HSBC’s Values. As a banking group, HSBC’s 
good reputation depends upon the way in which 
it conducts its business but it can also be 
affected by the way in which clients, to which 
it provides financial services, conduct their 
business or use financial products and services. 
• Internal Audit. The establishment and 
maintenance of appropriate systems of internal 
control is primarily the responsibility of 
business management. The Internal Audit 
function, which is centrally controlled, monitors 
the effectiveness of internal control structures 
across the whole of HSBC focusing on the 
areas of greatest risk to HSBC as determined 
by a risk-based grading approach. The Head of 
this function reports to the Group Chairman, 
the Group Chief Executive, the GAC and the 
GRC on risk-related matters. 
• Internal Audit recommendations. Executive 
management is responsible for ensuring that 
recommendations made by the Internal Audit 
function are implemented within an appropriate 
and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect 
must be provided to Internal Audit. Executive 
management must also confirm annually as part 
of the internal audit process that offices under 
their control have taken, or are in the process of 
taking, the appropriate actions to deal with all 
significant recommendations made by the 
external auditor in management letters or by 
regulators following regulatory inspections. 
In May 2011, amendments were made to the 
terms of reference of the GRC and the GAC to 
minimise the overlap between the Committees. As a 
result, the GAC has non-executive responsibility for   
 
243 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
oversight of internal controls over financial reporting 
and the GRC has non-executive responsibility for 
internal controls other than over financial reporting. 
The GRC and the GAC have kept under review 
the effectiveness of this system of internal control 
and have reported regularly to the Board of 
Directors. In carrying out their reviews the GRC and 
the GAC receive regular business and operational 
risk assessments; regular reports from the Group 
Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Internal 
Audit; reports on the annual reviews of the internal 
control framework of HSBC Holdings and of major 
operating subsidiary companies, in each case  
measured against HSBC benchmarks, which cover 
all internal controls, both financial and non-
financial; semi-annual confirmations from chief 
executives of principal subsidiary companies as to 
whether there have been any material losses, 
contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses 
in internal controls; internal audit reports; external 
audit reports; prudential reviews; and regulatory 
reports. The GRC monitors the status of top and 
emerging risks which impact the Group and 
considers whether the mitigating actions put in place 
are appropriate. In addition, when unexpected losses 
have arisen or when incidents have occurred which 
indicate gaps in the control framework or in 
adherence to Group policies, the GRC and the GAC 
review special reports, prepared at the instigation of 
management, which analyse the cause of the issue, 
the lessons learned and the actions proposed by 
management to address the issue.  
The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, 
have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness 
of our system of internal control covering all 
material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls, risk management systems, 
the adequacy of resources, qualifications and 
experience of staff of the accounting and financial 
reporting function, and their training programmes 
and budget. The review does not extend to joint 
ventures or associates. The GRC and the GAC have 
received confirmation that executive management 
has taken or is taking the necessary actions to 
remedy any failings or weaknesses identified 
through the operation of our framework of controls. 
Going concern basis 
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the 
Group and parent company have the resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future. In 
making this assessment, the Directors have 
considered a wide range of information relating 
to present and future conditions, including future 
projections of profitability, cash flows and capital 
resources. Further information relevant to the 
assessment is provided elsewhere in this Report. 
In particular, HSBC’s principal activities, business 
and operating models, strategic direction and top and 
emerging risks are described in the ‘Overview’ 
section; a financial summary, including a review of 
the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
balance sheet, is provided in the ‘Operating and 
Financial Review’ section; and HSBC’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity 
and market risk, and its approach to capital 
management and allocation, are described in the 
‘Risk’ section.  
Employees 
At 31 December 2011, HSBC employed 298,000 
full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 
compared with 307,000 at 31 December 2010 and 
302,000 at 31 December 2009. The main centres 
of employment were the UK with approximately 
51,000 employees, India 32,000, Hong Kong 30,000, 
the US 24,000, Brazil 24,000, Mexico 19,000, 
mainland China 17,000 and France 10,000. 
In the context of the current global financial 
services operating environment, a high performance 
and values-led work force is critical. We encourage 
open and honest communication in decision making. 
Employment issues and the financial and economic 
factors affecting HSBC’s performance are regularly 
shared with our employees. 
Global People Survey 
In 2011, we conducted our fifth Group-wide Global 
People Survey, which achieved a participation rate 
of 81%. The survey gives employees the opportunity 
to provide feedback on their experience of HSBC 
and involves them in identifying actions to improve 
their experience. Employee engagement improved 
1 percentage point from 68% in 2010 to 69% in 
2011. This was 2 percentage points higher than the 
financial services sector average and 7 percentage 
points above the external global average.  
Those who participate in our corporate 
sustainability initiatives continue to exhibit higher 
levels of engagement. Employees reported 
improvement on personal aspects of their 
employment experience such as work-life balance 
and performance management. Their experience 
of a values-led culture and effective team working 
were also positive. Both were above the financial 
sector average with a values-led culture achieving 
1 percentage point above the global best in class.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees 
 
 
244 
Reward 
Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market 
competitive, underpinned by an ethical performance 
culture which aligns the interests of our employees, 
shareholders and regulators. See Employee share 
plans on page 245. 
We negotiate and consult with recognised 
unions as appropriate. The five highest concentrations 
of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, 
mainland China, Malta and Mexico. It is our policy 
to maintain well-developed communications and 
consultation programmes with all employee 
representative bodies and there have been no 
material disruptions to our operations from labour 
disputes during the past five years. 
Diversity and inclusion 
Our deep roots in many geographical regions and an 
international approach inform our perspective on 
diversity: ethnicity, age and gender diversity are 
areas of strategic focus. We remain committed to 
meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive 
culture where employees believe that their views are 
heard, their concerns are attended to and they work 
in an environment where bias, discrimination and 
harassment on any matter (e.g. religion, sexuality 
and disability) are not tolerated and where 
advancement is based on objectivity. Our inclusive 
culture helps us respond to our increasingly diverse 
customer base, while developing and retaining a 
secure supply of skilled, committed employees. 
Oversight of our Diversity and Inclusion agenda 
and related activities resides with executives on the 
Group Diversity Committee, complemented by the 
Group People Committee and local People/Diversity 
Committees. 
The role of HSBC Values in daily operating 
practice has taken on increased significance in the 
context of the global financial crisis with changes to 
regulatory policy, investor confidence and society’s 
view of the role of banks. 
Staff development 
The development of talented employees in both 
developed and emerging markets is essential to 
the future strength of our business. We have 
implemented a systematic approach to identifying 
and deploying talented employees across the 
organisation to ensure an appropriate supply of high 
calibre individuals with the skills and experience for 
current and future senior management positions. 
In 2011, we continued to build global 
consistency across our learning curricula and to 
improve the relevance and quality of learning 
programmes. We have endeavoured to achieve a 
standard of excellence focusing on leadership and 
technical capability. 
Employment of disabled persons 
We believe in providing equal opportunities for all 
employees. The employment of disabled persons is 
included in this commitment and the recruitment, 
training, career development and promotion of 
disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and 
abilities of the individual. Should employees 
become disabled during their employment with us, 
efforts are made to continue their employment and, 
if necessary, appropriate training is provided. 
Health and safety 
The maintenance of appropriate health and safety 
standards remains a key responsibility of all 
managers and we are committed to proactively 
managing all health and safety risks associated with 
our business. Our objectives are to identify, remove, 
reduce or control material risks relating to fires and 
accidents or injuries to employees and visitors. 
Group standards, instructions, policies and 
guidance for all Health, Safety and Fire Policies are 
set by Group Corporate Real Estate. Achieving these 
in each country in which we operate is the 
responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer of that 
country with support and coordination provided by 
the Health and Safety Coordinator for that country. 
In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, 
Global Security and Fraud Risk provides regular 
Security Risk Assessments to assist management in 
judging the level of terrorist and violent criminal 
threat. Regional Security and Fraud Risk functions 
conduct regular security reviews of all Group 
buildings to ensure measures to protect our staff, 
buildings, assets and information are appropriate to 
the level of threat.  
We remain committed to maintaining our 
preparedness and to ensuring the highest standards 
of health and safety wherever in the world we 
operate.   
245 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Remuneration policy 
The quality and commitment of our human capital is 
deemed fundamental to our success and accordingly 
the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the 
very best people. As trust and relationships are vital 
in our business our broad policy is to recruit those 
who are committed to making a long-term career 
with the organisation. 
HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective 
through focusing on both short and sustainable 
performance over the long-term. It aims to reward 
success, not failure, and be properly aligned with 
risk. In order to ensure alignment between 
remuneration and our strategy, individual 
remuneration is determined through assessment 
of performance delivered against both annual and 
long-term objectives summarised in performance 
scorecards and adherence to the HSBC Values of 
being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting 
with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance 
is judged, not only on what is achieved over the 
short and medium term, but also on how it is 
achieved as the latter contributes to the sustainability 
of the organisation.  
The financial and non-financial measures that 
comprise the annual and long-term scorecards are 
carefully considered to ensure alignment with the 
long-term strategy of the Group. 
Further information on the Group’s approach to 
remuneration is given on page 256. 
Employee share plans 
To help align the interests of employees with those 
of shareholders, share options are granted under all-
employee share plans and discretionary awards of 
shares are granted under HSBC’s share plans. The 
following are particulars of outstanding employee 
share options, including those held by employees 
working under employment contracts that are 
regarded as ‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes 
of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance. The 
options were granted at nil consideration. No options 
have been granted to substantial shareholders, 
suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the 
individual limit for each share plan. No options were 
cancelled by HSBC during the period.  
Share options may also be granted under the 
HSBC Share Plan 2011, which replaced the HSBC 
Share Plan on 27 May 2011, following shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting. No share 
options have been granted under this plan. 
A summary for each plan of the total number 
of the options which were awarded, exercised or 
lapsed during 2011 is shown in the following tables. 
Further details required to be disclosed pursuant 
to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing 
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited are available on our website at 
www.hsbc.com by selecting ‘Investor Relations’, 
then ‘Governance’, then ‘Share Plans’, and on the 
website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited at www.hkex.com.hk or can be obtained 
upon request from the Group Company Secretary, 
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Particulars of 
options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set 
out on page 272. 
Note 9 on the Financial Statements gives details 
on share-based payments, including discretionary 
awards of shares granted under HSBC’s share plans. 
All-employee share option plans 
All employees employed within the Group on the 
first working day of the year may be granted options 
to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under 
shareholder-approved all-employee share option 
plans. Options under the plans are usually 
exercisable after one, three or five years.  
The exercise of the options may be advanced to 
an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example 
on retirement, and may be extended in certain 
circumstances, for example on the death of a 
participant, the executors may exercise the option up 
to six months beyond the normal exercise period. 
The middle market closing price for HSBC Holdings 
ordinary share quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List 
on 19 April 2011, the day before options were 
granted in 2011, was £6.41.  
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees > Employee share plans / Subsidiary company share plans 
 
 
246 
HSBC Holdings All-employee Share Option Plans  
     HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Dates of award  Exercise price   Exercisable  At Awarded Exercised   Lapsed   At 
 from   to   from to   from   to  1 Jan 2011 during year during year   during year   31 Dec 2011
Savings-Related Share Option Plan
1
   
 24 May  
 2005  
 20 Apr  
 2011  
 (£)
 3.3116
 (£)
 6.6870  
 1 Aug
 2010  
 31 Jan
 2017 67,737,865 7,742,930 1,387,867 5,593,819 68,499,109
Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International
2
   
 24 May  
 2005  
 20 Apr  
 2011  
 (£)
 3.3116
 (£) 
 6.6870  
 1 Aug
 2010  
 31 Jan
 2017 28,660,942 7,557,671 2,733,297 6,870,063 26,615,253
 26 Apr  
 2006  
 20 Apr  
 2011  
 (US$)
 4.8876
 (US$) 
12.0958  
 1 Aug
 2010  
 31 Jan
 2017 10,899,415 2,189,050 840,284 2,496,115 9,752,066
 26 Apr  
 2006  
 20 Apr  
 2011  
 (€)
 3.6361
 (€) 
 9.5912  
 1 Aug
 2010  
 31 Jan
 2017 3,128,508 581,297 127,587 405,953 3,176,265
 26 Apr  
 2006  
 20 Apr  
 2011 
 (HK$)
37.8797
 (HK$) 
94.5057  
 1 Aug
 2010  
 31 Jan
 2017 47,428,892 5,127,912 2,350,010 4,784,283 45,422,511
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.07. 
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.90. 
 
Discretionary Share Option Plans 
         HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Dates of award  Exercise price   Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed    At 
 from   to   from  to   from  to  1 Jan 2011   during year
2
  during year    31 Dec 2011 
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan
1
      
 23 Apr  
 2001  
 20 Apr  
 2005  
 (£)
 6.0216 
 (£) 
 7.9606  
 23 Apr
 2004 
 20 Apr
 2015 153,189,587 645,987 31,751,804 120,791,796 
HSBC Share Plan     
 30 Sep 
 2005    
 (£)
 7.9911   
 30 Sep
 2008 
 30 Sep
 2015 86,046 – – 86,046 
1 The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan expired on 26 May 2005. No options have been granted under the Plan since that date.  
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.90. 
There have been no grants of discretionary share 
options under employee share plans since 
30 September 2005. 
Subsidiary company share plans 
HSBC France and subsidiary company 
When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and 
certain of its subsidiary companies, including HSBC 
Private Bank France, operated employee share 
option plans under which options could be granted 
over their respective shares.  
On 31 October 2011, HSBC Private Bank 
France merged with HSBC France. Options held 
over shares of HSBC Private Bank France were 
converted into options held over shares of HSBC 
France, at an exchange ratio of 7 HSBC France 
shares for 45 HSBC Private Bank France shares. The 
exercise price payable for each option was adjusted 
using the same exchange ratio. 
Details of outstanding options to acquire shares 
in HSBC Private Bank France before the merger 
with HSBC France are set out in the following table 
headed ‘HSBC Private Bank France’. Details of 
outstanding options to acquire shares in HSBC 
France after the merger are set out in the following 
table headed ‘HSBC France’. All holders of options 
to acquire shares of HSBC France are obliged to 
exchange the HSBC France shares they receive on 
exercise of these options for HSBC Holding shares. 
No further options will be granted under the share 
plans of HSBC Private Bank France or HSBC 
France. 
   
 
247 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Private Bank France 
         HSBC Private Bank shares of €2 
Dates of award  Exercise price   Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed   At 
 from   to   from to   from  to  1 Jan 2011   during year  during year
1
    31 Oct 2011
2
 15 May  
 2001  
 1 Oct  
 2002  
 (€)
 20.80
 (€) 
 22.22  
 15 May
 2002 
 1 Oct
 2012 287,100 –  141,525  145,575 
1 These options lapsed prior to the merger with HSBC France. Following the lapse of these options, the only options left outstanding on 
31 October 2011 were those awarded on 1 October 2002. 
2 These options were converted into options over HSBC France shares on completion of the merger. There were no options outstanding 
on 31 December 2011. 
HSBC France 
    HSBC France shares of €5 
Exercisable  At  At
Date of award  
 Exercise price 
 (€)   from to 31 Oct 2011
1
 Exercised
 during year
 Lapsed 
 during year   31 Dec 2011
2
1 Oct 2002 ..............  142.84   2 Oct 
 2005 
 1 Oct
 2012 22,645 – – 22,645 
1 These options replaced the options over shares in HSBC Private Bank France which were outstanding on 31 October 2011 prior to the 
completion of the merger. 
2 When exercised, options over HSBC France Shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 13.499897 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share. At 31 December 2011, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 (Private 
Banking France) held 989,502 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC France shares issued following the 
exercise of these options. 
 
HSBC Finance 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all 
outstanding options over, and rights to receive, 
HSBC Finance common shares were converted into 
options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share 
exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance 
(2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each  
HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price 
payable for each option was adjusted using the same 
exchange ratio. 
Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC 
Holdings under share plans of HSBC Finance are set 
out in the following table. No further options will be 
granted under share plans of HSBC Finance. 
 
 
HSBC Finance: 1996 Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
         HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Dates of award  Exercise price   Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed    At 
 from   to   from to   from  to  1 Jan 2011   during year   during year    31 Dec 2011
1
 
 12 Nov  
 2001  
 20 Nov  
 2002  
  (US$)
 9.29
 (US$) 
 18.62  
 12 Nov
 2002 
 20 Nov
 2012 11,117,826 – 8,688,288  2,429,538 
1 At 31 December 2011, the HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held 2,335,315 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 
American Depositary Shares, each of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of 
employee share options. 
 
HSBC Bank Bermuda 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda in 
2004, all outstanding options over HSBC Bank 
Bermuda shares were converted into options to 
acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an 
exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being 
the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank 
Bermuda share) by the average price of HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares over the 5 day period to 
the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price 
payable for each option was adjusted using the same 
exchange ratio. 
Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC 
Holdings under the share plans of HSBC Bank 
Bermuda are set out in the following table. No 
further options will be granted under the share plans 
of HSBC Bank Bermuda.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees / Other required disclosures // Annual General Meeting / Appendix > Share capital 
 
 
248 
HSBC Bank Bermuda 
         HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Dates of award  Exercise price   Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed    At 
 from   to   from to   from  to  1 Jan 2011   during year  during year   31 Dec 2011
1
 
Share Option Plan 1997        
 11 Jan 
 2001   
  (US$)
 12.44 – 
  11 Jan 
 2002 
 11 Jan
 2011 61,901 – 61,901  – 
Share Option Plan 2000        
 11 Jan 
 2001  
 21 Apr 
 2003  
 (US$)
 9.32
 (US$) 
 15.99  
 11 Jan
 2002 
 21 Apr
 2013 2,250,966 – 1,236,940  1,014,026 
Directors’ Share Option Plan        
 28 Mar  
 2001  
 3 Apr  
 2002  
 (US$)
 13.73
 (US$) 
 13.95  
 28 Mar 
 2002 
 3 Apr 
 2012 26,166 – 9,285  16,881 
1 At 31 December 2011, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee share options. 
Other required disclosures 
Further information about share capital, directors’ 
interests, supplier payment policy, dividends and 
shareholders is set out in the Appendix to this section 
on page 249. 
Annual General Meeting 
All Directors listed on pages 218 to 223 attended the 
2011 Annual General Meeting with the exception of 
N R N Murthy who was unable to attend. 
V H C Cheng, who ceased to be a Director from the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, was also 
unable to attend. 
Our Annual General Meeting in 2012 will be 
held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London 
EC2 on 25 May 2012 at 11.00 am. 
An informal meeting of shareholders will be 
held at 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on 
Monday 21 May 2012 at 4.30 pm. 
Resolutions to receive the Annual Report and 
Accounts, approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, re-elect Directors and reappoint KPMG 
Audit Plc as auditor will be submitted to the Annual 
General Meeting. KPMG Audit Plc has expressed 
its willingness to continue in office and the Group 
Audit Committee and the Board has recommended 
that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed. Resolutions 
will also be submitted to the Annual General 
Meeting to renew the authorities for the allotment of 
shares, disapply pre-emption rights, renew the scrip 
dividend alternative and approve general meetings 
(other than Annual General Meetings) being called 
on a minimum of 14 clear days’ notice. 
A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting 
will be available on www.hsbc.com. From shortly 
after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
until 30 June 2012 a recording of the proceedings 
will be available on www.hsbc.com. 
 
On behalf of the Board 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 27 February 2012 
HSBC Holdings plc 
Registered number 617987    
 
249 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Appendix to Report of the Directors 
Other required disclosures 
Share capital 
Issued share capital 
The nominal value of our issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2011 was US$8,934,057,323 divided into 
17,868,085,646 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 
1 non-cumulative preference share of £0.01. 
The percentage of the nominal value of our total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2011 represented by the 
ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-cumulative 
preference share of £0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares  
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of 
Association subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the 
Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations 
attaching to each class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, 
redemption.  
To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no 
lien and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency. The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee 
or no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped (if required). The transfer must be delivered to our 
registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that 
proves the title of the transferor. 
If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom 
we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares) and has failed in relation to any shares 
(the ‘default shares’) to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, 
unless the Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general 
meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder. If the default shares represent at least 0.25% 
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be 
withheld by the Company without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no 
transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered except in limited circumstances. 
Ordinary shares 
Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, 
declare dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the 
profits available for distribution. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the 
nominal amount paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is 
paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall 
rank for dividend accordingly. Subject to the Articles of Association, the Board may, with the prior authority of an 
ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, 
offer to any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, 
credited as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the 
Board) of any dividend specified by the ordinary resolution. At the 2007 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave 
authority to the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 
2012. A resolution to renew Directors’ authority to offer a scrip dividend alternative will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix – Other required disclosures > Share capital 
 
 
250 
Preference shares 
There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of HSBC Holdings, non-cumulative preference 
shares of US$0.01 each (the ‘Dollar Preference Shares’), non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each (the 
‘Sterling Preference Shares’) and non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 (the ‘Euro Preference Shares’). The 
Dollar Preference Shares in issue are Series A Dollar Preference Shares and the Sterling Preference Share in issue is 
a Series A Sterling Preference Share. There are no Euro Preference Shares in issue.  
Dollar Preference Shares 
Holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings if any dividend 
payable on the relevant preference shares in respect of such period as the Board shall determine prior to allotment 
thereof is not paid in full or in such other circumstances, and upon and subject to such terms, as the Board may 
determine prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 
27 February 2012 the relevant period determined by the Board is four consecutive dividend payment dates. Whenever 
holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are entitled to vote on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of hands 
every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every such holder who is 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote per preference share held by him or her or such number of votes per 
share as the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such share. 
Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right to a non-cumulative 
preferential dividend at such rate, on such dates and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the 
Board prior to allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any 
other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other preference shares in issue and any other 
shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards income; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in 
priority to the relevant preference shares as regards income). A dividend of US$62 per annum is payable on each 
Dollar Preference Share in issue at 27 February 2012. The dividend is paid at the rate of US$15.50 per quarter at the 
sole and absolute discretion of the Board.  
A dividend will not be declared or paid on the Dollar Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would cause 
HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC 
Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both 
dividends on the relevant preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the 
same date and that have an equal right to dividends. Dividends will not be declared or paid on any class of shares of 
HSBC Holdings ranking lower in the right to dividends than the Dollar Preference Shares nor redeem nor purchase 
in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the Dollar Preference Shares unless it has paid 
in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the Dollar Preference Shares for the 
then-current dividend period. 
The Dollar Preference Shares carry no rights to participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings other than as set 
out in the Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act 2006, do not confer any right to participate in 
any offer or invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do not 
confer any right of conversion and do not confer any right to participate in any issue of bonus shares or shares issued 
by way of capitalisation of reserves. 
Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders of the Dollar 
Preference Shares have the right in a winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the assets of HSBC Holdings 
available for distribution to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares and any 
other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other relevant preference shares and any other 
shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards repayment of capital; and (ii) any shares which by their 
terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards repayment of capital), a sum equal to any unpaid 
dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance with or pursuant to the 
Articles of Association and the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the Dollar Preference Shares together with 
such premium (if any) as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof. In the case of the Dollar 
Preference Shares in issue at 27 February 2012, the premium is US$999.99 per Dollar Preference Share. 
The Dollar Preference Shares may be redeemed in accordance with the Articles of Association and the terms on 
which Dollar Preference Shares were issued and allotted. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 
27 February 2012, HSBC Holdings may redeem such shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, 
subject to prior notification to the FSA.    
 
251 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Sterling Preference Shares 
The Sterling Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar 
Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Sterling Preference Shares to be 
determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds 
from the redemption of each class of share. The one Sterling Preference Share in issue at 27 February 2012 carries 
the same rights and obligations as the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 27 February 2012 to the extent described 
in the section above save as follows:  
1. the holder of the Sterling Preference Share is not entitled to attend or vote at general meetings;  
2. the Sterling Preference Share may be redeemed in whole on any date as may be determined by the Board; and 
3. the exceptions to the circumstances in which a dividend will not be declared or paid do not apply. 
A dividend of £0.04 per annum is payable on the Sterling Preference Share in issue at 27 February 2012. The 
dividend is paid at the rate of £0.01 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. 
Euro Preference Shares  
The Euro Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar 
Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Euro Preference Shares which are to 
be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of 
proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. 
Share capital during 2011 
The following events occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings: 
Scrip dividends 
 HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares of US$0.50 Market value 
Issued in lieu of  In  Number  US$   £ 
Third interim dividend for 2010 ...................................... January 2011  19,637,010  10.4577   6.5644 
Fourth interim dividend for 2010 .................................... May 2011  110,222,824  10.2564   6.2642 
First interim dividend for 2011 ....................................... July 2011  19,973,377  10.2077   6.3268 
Second interim dividend for 2011 ................................... October 2011  20,741,956  8.5685   5.1714 
All-Employee share plans 
  Number   Exercise price 
    from   to 
HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans         
HSBC ordinary shares issued in £ .................................................... 4,121,164  £  3.3116   6.6870 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in HK$ ............................................... 2,350,010  HK$  37.8797   94.5057 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in US$ ............................................... 840,284  US$  4.8876    12.0958 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in € .................................................... 127,587  €  3.6361   9.0818 
Options over HSBC ordinary shares lapsed .......................................... 20,150,233     
Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to 45,000 
applications from HSBC employees in 70 countries and  
territories on 20 April 2011 ............................................................... 23,198,860   –   
Plan d’Epargne Entreprise      
HSBC ordinary shares issued for the benefit of non-UK resident  
employees of HSBC France and its subsidiaries .............................. 3,269,545  €  5.9310 
 
 
Discretionary share incentive plans 
  HSBC ordinary
 shares issued Exercise price (£) 
  Options 
 lapsed 
   from  to   
Options exercised under:      
The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan ................ 645,987  6.0216  7.9606   31,751,804 
The HSBC Share Plan ........................................................ –  –   –   – 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix – Other required disclosures > Directors’ interests / Supplier payment policy / Dividends and shareholders 
 
 
252 
Authority to allot shares 
At the Annual General Meeting in 2011, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot new 
shares. The general authority is to allot up to 3,541,390,000 ordinary shares, 10,000,000 non-cumulative preference 
shares of £0.01 each, 10,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 10,000,000 non-cumulative 
preference shares of €0.01 each. Within this, the Directors have authority to allot up to a maximum of 885,347,500 
ordinary shares wholly for cash to persons other than existing shareholders. 
Other than as described above, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2011. 
Treasury shares 
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC 
Holdings will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of any shares in 
treasury and with the conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury. No shares are 
currently held in treasury.  
Directors’ interests 
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained 
by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of 
HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2011 had the following interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares 
and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations:  
Directors’ interests – shares and loan capital 
 
  At 31 December 2011 
 
 
 At 
 1 January 
 2011 
 Beneficial
 owner 
 Child 
 under 18 
 or spouse 
 Jointly 
 with 
 another 
 person  Trustee 
 
 Total 
 interests
1
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares  
of US$0.50       
J D Coombe ....................................... 20,341 21,139 – – – 21,139 
R A Fairhead ...................................... 21,300 – – 21,300 – 21,300 
D J Flint .............................................
 
178,681 237,771 – – 35,090
2 
272,861 
A A Flockhart .................................... 230,112 63,819 – – 344,010 407,829 
S T Gulliver ....................................... 2,731,077 2,553,592 177,508 – – 2,731,100 
J W J Hughes-Hallett ......................... 39,577 – – – 46,952
2 
46,952 
W S H Laidlaw .................................. 30,948 30,456 – – 1,416
2 
31,872 
I J Mackay
 
.......................................... 34,217 133,648 – – – 133,648 
G Morgan ........................................... 81,166 84,347 – – – 84,347 
Sir Simon Robertson .......................... 176,373 8,959 – – 167,750
2 
176,709 
J L Thornton ...................................... 10,250 – 10,250
3
– – 10,250 
Sir Brian Williamson .........................
 
37,607 39,083 – – – 39,083 
 US$ US$    US$ 
Loan Capital – 6.5% Subordinated 
Notes 2036        
L M L Cha ......................................... 300,000 300,000 – – – 300,000 
1 Details of executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 arising from the HSBC Holdings savings-
related share option plans, the HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 272 and 274. At 31 December 2011, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50, including interests arising through employee share plans were: D J Flint – 628,992; 
A A Flockhart – 1,424,882; S T Gulliver – 4,892,014 and I J Mackay – 426,266. Each Director’s total interests represents less than 
0.03% of the shares in issue. 
2 Non-beneficial. 
3 Interest of spouse in 2,050 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50.  
As a director of HSBC France during 2011, S T Gulliver has an interest as beneficial owner in one share of €5 in that 
company (representing less than 0.01% of the shares in issue). He has waived his rights to receive dividends on this 
share and has undertaken to transfer it to HSBC on ceasing to be a director of HSBC France.    
253 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares 
and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated above, none of the Directors had 
an interest in any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any associated corporation at the beginning or at the end 
of the year, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to 
subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year. Since the end of the year, the 
aggregate interests of the following Directors have increased by the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
shown against their names:  
Increase in Directors’ interests since 31 December 2011 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
 
 Beneficial
 owner 
  Child under 
 18 or spouse 
 
 Trustee 
J D Coombe ............................................................................................................... 257
1
– – 
D J Flint ..................................................................................................................... 4,405
2
– 426
3
A A Flockhart ............................................................................................................ 13,049
1
– 4,171
1
S T Gulliver ............................................................................................................... 26,202
1
8
1 
– 
W S H Laidlaw .......................................................................................................... 369 – – 
I J Mackay ................................................................................................................. 3,529
1
– – 
Sir Simon Robertson .................................................................................................. 108
1
– – 
Sir Brian Williamson ................................................................................................. 474
1
– – 
1 Scrip dividend. 
2 Comprises scrip dividend, the automatic reinvestment of dividend income by an Individual Savings Account manager (65 shares), the 
acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions (24 shares) and the 
automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan (30 shares). 
3 Non-beneficial. 
There have been no other changes in the share and loan capital interests of the Directors from 31 December 2011 to 
the date of this Report. Any subsequent changes up to the last practicable date before the publication of the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting will be set out in the notes to that Notice. 
At 31 December 2011, non-executive Directors and Senior Management (being executive Directors and Group 
Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) held, in aggregate, beneficial interests in 15,132,496 HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares (0.08% of the issued ordinary shares). 
At 31 December 2011, executive Directors and Senior Management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 
544,992 of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans and HSBC 
Holdings Group Share Option Plan. These options are exercisable between 2011 and 2015 at prices ranging from 
£3.3116 to £7.2181 and US$11.8824 per ordinary share. 
Supplier payment policy 
HSBC has signed up to the Government’s Prompt Payment Code (further information on, and copies of, the Code 
can be obtained by visiting www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk).  
Our policy is to settle terms of payment with our suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that 
those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.  
The amount due to trade creditors at 31 December 2011 represented 28 days’ average daily purchases of goods and 
services received from such creditors, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as amended by 
Statutory Instrument 2008 No. 410. 
Dividends and shareholders 
Dividends for 2011 
First, second and third interim dividends for 2011, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 6 July 2011, 
6 October 2011 and 18 January 2012 respectively. Note 11 on the Financial Statements gives more information on 
the dividends declared in 2011. On 27 February 2012, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2011 of 
US$0.14 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable on 2 May 2012 in cash in US dollars, 
or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 23 April 2012, with a scrip dividend 
alternative. As the fourth interim dividend for 2011 was declared after 31 December 2011 it has not been included  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix – Other required disclosures > Dividends and shareholders 
 
 
254 
in the balance sheet of HSBC as a debt. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2011 
were US$34,621m. 
A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20% non-cumulative US Dollar Preference Share, Series A (‘Series A Dollar 
Preference Share’), (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which 
represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share), was paid on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 
15 December 2011. 
Dividends for 2012 
The proposed timetable for interim dividends in respect of 2012 on the ordinary shares of US$0.50 is set out in the 
Shareholder Information section on page 414. 
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per Series A Dollar Preference Share (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per 
Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share) 
and £0.01 per Series A Sterling Preference Share were declared on 13 February 2012 for payment on 15 March 2012. 
Communication with shareholders  
Communication with shareholders is given high priority. Extensive information about our activities is provided to 
shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts, Annual Review and the Interim Report which are available on 
www.hsbc.com. There is regular dialogue with institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters 
relating to their shareholdings and our business are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely 
manner. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of 
shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss our progress. Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing to 
the Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ  or by sending an email to 
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. 
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting as provided 
by the UK Companies Act 2006. Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 
5% of the paid-up capital of the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company 
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general nature of the business to be 
dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be 
moved at the meeting. A resolution may properly be moved at a meeting unless it would, if passed, be ineffective 
(whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company's constitution or otherwise); it is defamatory 
of any person; or it is frivolous or vexatious. A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be 
authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may be made in writing to the postal address referred to 
in the paragraph above or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. At any meeting convened on such 
request no business shall be transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. 
Notifiable interests in share capital 
At 31 December 2011, we had received the following disclosures (which have not been subsequently changed) of 
major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of rule 5 of the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
• Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on 9 March 2010 that it had a direct interest on 8 March 2010 in 
696,851,431 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the total voting rights at that date; and 
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 December 2009 that on 7 December 2009 it had the following: an indirect 
interest in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of 1,142,439,457; qualifying financial instruments with 705,100 voting 
rights that may be acquired if the instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments with similar 
economic effect to qualifying financial instruments which refer to 234,880 voting rights, each representing 6.56%, 
0.0041% and 0.0013% respectively of the total voting rights at that date. 
As at 31 December 2011, according to the register maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong:  
 
255 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 2 December 2011 that on 29 November 2011 it had the following 
interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,134,407,150 ordinary shares, a short position of 
55,216,336 ordinary shares and a lending pool of 921,730,747 ordinary shares, each representing 6.35%, 0.31% 
and 5.16% respectively of the ordinary shares in issue at that date; and 
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 29 December 2011 that on 21 December 2011 it had the following interests in 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,081,735,339 ordinary shares and a short position of 
16,049,140 ordinary shares, each representing 6.05% and 0.09% respectively of the ordinary shares in issue at 
that date. Since 31 December 2011 and following interim notifications on 2, 6, 8, 21 and 22 February 2012, 
Blackrock, Inc. gave notice, on 23 February 2012 that on 20 February 2012 it had a long position of 
1,076,743,830 ordinary shares and a short position of 16,006,002 ordinary shares, representing 5.99% and 0.08% 
respectively of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at 
least 25% of the total issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 2011 and up to the date of 
this Report. 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares 
Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC Bank and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which 
are members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries has purchased, sold or 
redeemed any of our listed securities during the year ended 31 December 2011.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Group Remuneration Committee // Members and advisers / Reward strategy > Overview / 2011 performance summary 
 
 
256 
Report of the Group 
Remuneration Committee 
Members and advisers .................................................. 256 
HSBC’s reward strategy ............................................... 256 
Regulation ..................................................................... 259 
Executive Directors’ remuneration .............................. 259 
Non-executive Directors ............................................... 268 
Employee compensation and benefits .......................... 269 
Pensions ........................................................................ 271 
Share Plans ................................................................... 272 
Group Remuneration Committee 
Within the authority delegated by the Board, the 
Group Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) 
is responsible for approving the Group’s 
remuneration policy. The Committee also determines 
the remuneration of Directors, other senior Group 
employees, employees in positions of significant 
influence and employees whose activities have or 
could have an impact on our risk profile and in doing 
so takes into account the pay and conditions across 
our Group. 
No Directors are involved in deciding their own 
remuneration. 
Members and advisers 
The members of the Committee during 2011 were 
J D Coombe, W S H Laidlaw, G Morgan and 
J L Thornton.  
There were nine meetings of the Committee 
during 2011. The table on page 238 gives details of 
Directors’ attendance at these meetings. 
The Committee has decided to not use advisers 
except in exceptional circumstances. No external 
advisers were used by the Committee during 2011. 
During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided 
regular briefings to the Committee and the 
Committee received advice from the Group 
Managing Director, Group Head of Human 
Resources and Corporate Sustainability, A Almeida, 
the Group Head of Performance and Reward, 
T Roberts and the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
M M Moses. 
The Committee also received advice and 
feedback from the Group Risk Committee on risk-
related matters relevant to remuneration and the 
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. 
HSBC’s reward strategy 
The quality and commitment of our human capital is 
deemed fundamental to our success and accordingly 
the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the 
very best people. As trust and relationships are vital 
in our business our broad policy is to recruit those 
who are committed to making a long-term career 
with the organisation. 
HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective 
through focusing on both short-term and sustainable 
performance over the long-term. It aims to reward 
success, not failure, and be properly aligned with 
risk.  
In order to ensure alignment between 
remuneration and our strategy, individual 
remuneration is determined through assessment 
of performance delivered against both annual and 
long-term objectives summarised in performance 
scorecards and adherence to the HSBC Values of 
being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting 
with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance 
is judged, not only on what is achieved over the short 
and medium term, but also on how it is achieved, as 
the latter contributes to the sustainability of the 
organisation.  
The financial and non-financial measures that 
comprise the annual and long-term scorecards are 
carefully considered to ensure alignment with the 
long-term strategy of the Group. 
Overview of remuneration 
In order to ensure clarity over remuneration, there 
are just four elements of remuneration, two of which 
are performance related. These are: 
• fixed pay; 
• the annual bonus; 
• the Group Performance Share Plan (the new 
long-term incentive plan of the HSBC Share 
Plan 2011); and 
• benefits. 
The Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) 
was developed over 2010 and 2011 to incentivise 
senior executives to deliver sustainable long-term 
business performance. A key feature of the GPSP 
is that participants are required to hold the awards, 
once they have vested, until retirement, thereby 
enhancing the alignment of interest between the 
senior executives of the Group and shareholders.   
 
257 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
As part of the HSBC Share Plan 2011, the GPSP 
was approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2011 and the first awards 
were made in June 2011. It replaces the previous 
long-term incentive plan. Further details are given 
on page 261. 
Executive Directors, Group Managing Directors 
and Group General Managers participate in both 
performance-related plans, namely the annual bonus 
and the GPSP. Other employees across the Group 
are eligible to participate in annual bonus 
arrangements. Both the annual bonus and long-term 
incentive awards are funded from a single annual 
variable pay pool from which individual awards are 
considered. 
Further details are provided in the section below 
and on page 258 in the Individual awards section. 
Group variable pay pool determination 
The Committee considers many factors in 
determining the Group’s variable pay pool funding. 
The variable pay pool takes into account the 
performance of the Group which is considered 
within the context of our risk appetite statement. 
This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is 
shaped by risk considerations. The risk appetite 
statement describes and measures the amount and 
types of risk that HSBC is prepared to take in 
executing our strategy. It shapes our integrated 
approach to business, risk and capital management 
and supports achievement of our objectives. The 
Group Chief Risk Officer regularly updates the 
Committee on the Group’s performance against the 
risk appetite statement. 
The Committee uses these updates when 
considering remuneration to ensure that return, risk 
and remuneration are aligned. The risk appetite 
statement for 2011 was approved by the Board and 
was cascaded across global businesses and regions. 
In addition, our funding methodology considers 
the relationship between capital, dividends and 
variable pay to ensure that the distribution of 
post-tax profits between these three elements is 
considered appropriate. On a pro forma basis, 
attributable profits (excluding movements in the 
fair value of own debt and before variable pay 
distributions) are allocated in the following 
proportions: 
2011 pro forma post-tax profits allocation 
Retained earnings/
capital
50%
Dividends¹
35%
Variable pay²
15% 
1 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments 
and net of scrip issuance. 
2 Total variable pay pool for 2011 net of tax and portion to be 
delivered by the award of HSBC shares. 
Finally the commercial requirements to remain 
competitive in the market and overall affordability 
are considered. 
2011 performance summary 
Key achievements 
During 2011 we made significant progress on 
executing our strategic objective to reshape the 
Group and become the world’s leading international 
bank. We commenced a wide portfolio review to 
improve the capital deployment and announced 16 
disposals or closures of non-strategic businesses 
during the year, and a further 3 in 2012. In addition, 
progress was made towards our target of delivering 
US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn of sustainable cost savings 
by the end of 2013, by achieving US$0.9bn of 
sustainable saves.  
The following summarises the Group’s 2011 
financial performance.  
• reported profit before tax grew compared with 
2010, although it fell on an underlying basis; 
• return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
of 10.9% improved but remained below the 
target range; 
• we successfully grew revenue in our target 
markets of Latin America, Hong Kong, Rest of 
Asia-Pacific and Middle East and North Africa, 
which supported record revenues in CMB. 
However, revenue was adversely affected by 
the eurozone sovereign debt crisis, adverse 
movements on non-qualifying hedges, lower 
Balance Sheet Management revenues (as 
expected), and the continued reduction in the 
HSBC Finance portfolio in North America; 
• loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions reduced significantly, notably in 
North America; credit conditions remained 
stable elsewhere;  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Group variable pay pool // Regulation / Executive Directors’ remuneration > Composition 
 
 
258 
• notwithstanding the savings noted above, the 
cost efficiency ratio (‘CER’) increased from 
55.2% in 2010 to 57.5% in 2011. This largely 
reflected an increase in significant items 
including restructuring costs, customer redress 
programmes and the bank levy introduced by 
the UK government. The increase also reflected 
a rise in staff costs due to wage inflation, most 
notably in faster-growing markets, and higher 
average staff numbers. The Group remains 
focused on achieving the CER target range of 
48-52%; 
• we maintained a strong balance sheet, with a 
ratio of customer advances to customer accounts 
of 75%. On an underlying basis, we grew loans 
to customers and customer deposits across our 
target markets of Latin America, Hong Kong, 
Rest of Asia-Pacific and Middle East and North 
Africa; 
• we increased dividends in respect of 2011 to our 
shareholders from US$0.36 per ordinary share 
in 2010 to US$0.41 per ordinary share in respect 
of 2011; and 
• our core tier 1 ratio remained strong in the 
face of a difficult operating and ever changing 
regulatory environment. 
The 2011 Group variable pay pool that was 
approved by the Committee is detailed below. It 
is stated in US dollars in line with the main currency 
of presentation of our results and on a constant 
currency basis. 
Group variable pay pool  
 Group Global Banking and Markets 
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Total 2011 variable pay pool ..................................................................... 4,223 4,297 1,210 1,640 
  %  %  %   % 
Variable compensation bonus pool as a percentage of pre-tax profit  
(pre-variable pay)
1
 ................................................................................. 18  18  14   15 
Proportion of bonus that is deferred .......................................................... 16  18  27   31 
1 The 2011 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay includes the add back of restructuring costs incurred during the year, and the 
adjustment for movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread. 
Individual awards 
Individual awards are based on the achievement of 
both financial and non-financial objectives. These 
objectives, which are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy, are detailed in participants’ annual 
performance scorecards and the collective long-term 
performance scorecard of participants in the GPSP. 
Performance is then measured and reviewed against 
the objectives on a regular basis. 
HSBC Values are described on page 13. They 
are key to the running of a sound, sustainable bank. 
Overall performance under both scorecards is judged 
on performance outcomes and, importantly, 
adherence to the HSBC Values. Our most senior 
employees had a separate values rating for 2011 
which directly influenced their overall performance 
rating and, accordingly, their variable pay. 
In addition, the global Risk and Compliance 
functions carry out annual reviews for senior 
executives and risk-takers (defined as HSBC 
Code Staff). These reviews determine whether there 
are any instances of non-compliance with Risk and 
Compliance procedures and expected behaviour. 
Instances of non-compliance are escalated to senior 
management for consideration in variable pay 
decisions, clawback and ongoing employment. 
Group-wide thematic reviews of risk are also 
carried out to determine if there are any 
transgressions for sizing variable pay or any 
instances where clawback is required. Risk and 
Compliance input is a critical part of the assessment 
process in determining the performance of HSBC 
Code Staff (which includes the executive Directors) 
and in ensuring that their individual remuneration 
has been appropriately assessed with regard to risk. 
We require a proportion of variable pay awards 
above certain thresholds to be deferred into awards 
of HSBC shares. This is to ensure that our interests 
and those of our employees are aligned with those 
of our shareholders, that our approach to risk 
management supports the interests of all 
stakeholders and that remuneration is consistent 
with effective risk management. In addition, 
employees are encouraged to participate in our 
savings-related share options plans and local share 
ownership arrangements. 
Finally, in considering individual awards, a 
comparison of the pay and employment conditions 
of our employees, Directors and senior executives is 
considered by the Committee.   
 
259 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Clawback  
In order to reward genuine performance and not 
failure, individual awards are made on the basis 
of a risk-adjusted view of both financial and non-
financial performance. However, if the assessment of 
performance subsequently proves to be inaccurate or 
incorrect, then previously unvested deferred awards 
made since 2010 can be clawed back by the 
Committee. Clawback has been exercised by the 
Committee in 2012 in relation to the inappropriate 
advice given by advisors of NHFA Limited and in 
relation to the settlement of claims around the 
possible mis-selling of Payment Protection Insurance 
in the UK. 
Management of risk 
The integration of risk in our remuneration approach 
is described in detail in the overview of 
remuneration section on page 256. 
Regulation 
2011 has seen further significant change to the 
regulatory environment as it relates to remuneration. 
There is still a wide divergence in how regulations 
operate globally and this presents significant 
challenges to HSBC, which operates in 85 countries 
and territories worldwide. In order to deliver long-
term sustainable performance, it is important we 
have market-competitive remuneration in order to 
attract, motivate and retain talented and committed 
employees around the world.  
We ensure our remuneration policies are aligned 
with both new regulatory practices and the interests 
of shareholders and confirm that HSBC is fully 
compliant with the Financial Stability Board and the 
FSA guidance and rules on remuneration. 
Executive Directors’ remuneration 
Composition of executive Directors’ reward 
Executive Directors’ reward is delivered through 
three main elements (excluding benefits): 
 
Description Strategic purpose 
Fixed pay 
• Takes account of experience and personal contribution to the individual’s role. 
Annual bonus 
• Maximum bonus is three times fixed pay (a reduction from the previous maximum of four times). 
• The award is non-pensionable. 
• Drives and rewards performance against annual financial and non-financial measures and adherence to HSBC Values 
which are consistent with the medium to long-term strategy. 
• The 2011 bonus will be fully delivered in HSBC shares, 60% of the bonus is deferred over a period of three years, 33%
vests on the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on the third anniversary of grant. During the vesting period 
the Committee has the authority to claw back part of or all the award. 
• 50% of the deferred and non-deferred awards are subject to a six-month retention period after vesting in line with FSA 
regulations.  
GPSP 
• Maximum award is six times fixed pay (a reduction from the maximum of seven times under the previous long-term 
incentive plan). 
• The award is non-pensionable. 
• Incentivises sustainable long-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests.  
• Award levels are determined by considering performance prior to the date of grant against enduring performance 
measures set out in the long-term performance scorecard. 
• The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to claw back part or 
all of the award. 
• On vesting the net of tax shares must be retained until the participant retires. 
 
This approach applies to all executive Directors 
with the exception of the Group Chairman, D J Flint, 
who, from 2011, is not eligible for annual bonus and 
is not expected to be granted awards under the GPSP 
except in exceptional circumstances. 
Total remuneration benchmarking 
methodology 
When considering the competitiveness of executive 
Directors’ remuneration packages the Committee 
considers market data from a defined remuneration 
comparator group. This group consists of nine global 
financial services companies, namely Banco 
Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas,  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Executive Directors’ remuneration > Fixed pay / Annual bonus / GPSP 
 
 
260 
Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co, 
Standard Chartered and UBS. These companies were 
selected on the basis of their broadly similar business 
coverage, size and international scope, and are 
subject to annual review for continuing relevance. 
Fixed pay 
No fixed pay increases are proposed for executive 
Directors in 2012. 
Annual bonus 
Determining executive Directors’ 
performance 
S T Gulliver 
The annual bonus award made to S T Gulliver in 
respect of 2011 was based upon the Committee’s 
assessment of the achievement of personal and 
corporate objectives as laid out in his performance 
scorecard agreed by the Board at the beginning of 
the year. This approach took into account 
performance against both financial and non-financial 
objectives and was set within the context of the risk 
appetite and strategic priorities agreed by the Board 
as appropriate for 2011. 
In order for any award of annual bonus to be 
made under the above performance scorecard 
approach the Committee had to firstly satisfy itself 
that S T Gulliver had demonstrated personal 
adherence to and leadership in promoting HSBC 
Values. This over-riding test assesses behaviour 
around the HSBC Values principles of being 
‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with 
‘courageous integrity’. The Committee determined 
that S T Gulliver had exhibited strong leadership 
and behaviour in this area and so met the required 
standard. 
Equal weighting was given within the 
performance scorecard agreed for S T Gulliver for 
2011 between financial and non-financial measures. 
In aggregate, in assessing the quantum of the 2011 
annual bonus against the theoretical maximum 
opportunity of three times base salary, an overall 
score of 57.5% of that maximum opportunity was 
judged to have been achieved. The achievement of 
the financial measures was scored more highly than 
the non-financial measures. A summary of the 
assessment and rationale for the conclusions is set 
out below. 
Financial (50% weighting – achieved 30%) 
The Committee considered that in the key areas of 
capital strength (10%) and dividend progression 
(10%) HSBC had fully met the objectives agreed and 
so this element of financial performance had been 
achieved. In assessing the extent to which profit 
(10%) and cost performance improvement (10%) 
had been delivered, these were judged to have been 
met to the extent of 50%. The Committee assessed 
positively the profit performance across CMB 
globally, in RBWM outside the US and in GB&M 
outside Europe and the US. The unexpected increase 
in loan impairment charges in the third quarter in the 
consumer finance business in the US and the impact 
of the eurozone crisis on GB&M performance in 
Europe were the key drivers of underperformance. 
In terms of cost performance, this was assessed 
positively and broadly in line with the profit 
performance. With regard to ‘Return on Equity’ 
(5%) and ‘Return on Risk-Weighted Assets’ (5%), 
largely driven by the underperforming areas noted 
above, performance was below the targets set and 
thus those elements of the scorecard attracted no 
award. 
Non-financial (50% weighting – achieved 27.5%)  
Half the opportunity in this area related to strategy 
execution and out of a maximum possible 25% 
opportunity, 80% was judged to have been achieved. 
This strong performance reflected execution of 
planned divestments of underperforming and sub-
scale businesses and, importantly, the sale of the 
upstate New York branches of the US commercial 
bank and the US credit and storecard businesses. 
The Committee noted that the portion of the annual 
bonus attributable to these latter two divestments 
would be clawed back in the event the agreed sales 
do not complete. Elsewhere in relation to ‘Strategy 
Execution’, the Committee noted good progress 
regarding organic expansion in mainland China, 
early stage development of the Wealth Management 
strategy and strong personal commitment to and 
success in supporting key client relationships. 
The remainder of the opportunity within the 
non-financial portion of the performance scorecard 
related to ‘People & Values’ (10%) and ‘Compliance 
& Reputation’ (15%). The Committee awarded 75% 
of the available opportunity in respect of ‘People & 
Values’ noting the strong cohesion of the new senior 
management leadership team which was updated 
during 2011. With regard to ‘Compliance & 
Reputation’, in spite of the considerable progress 
made under S T Gulliver’s leadership in rolling out 
Group-wide Values awareness to avoid repetition 
of legacy compliance failings, the incidence of the 
PPI redress settlement, the mis-selling instances 
uncovered at NHFA Limited and continuing 
legacy legal and compliance issues in the US, the 
Committee determined that there could be no award 
under this element of the scorecard.   
 
261 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review   Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The same deliberations and assessments with 
regard to performance and adherence to HSBC 
Values were undertaken by the Committee with 
regard to the performance of AA Flockhart and 
I J Mackay. These are summarised below. 
A A Flockhart 
The performance scorecard for A A Flockhart was 
weighted 45% financial, 55% non-financial. In 
aggregate, in assessing the quantum of the 2011 
annual bonus against the theoretical maximum 
opportunity of three times base salary, an overall 
score of 66% of that maximum opportunity was 
judged to have been achieved. The Committee 
considered that performance against the financial 
measures of profit before tax, cost efficiency and 
return on risk-weighted assets had been met or 
exceeded in CMB, Latin America and the Middle 
East and North Africa. The performance in Europe 
against these targets was below plan. Capital 
generation targets were met in Europe and Latin 
America but were below target in the Middle East 
and North Africa. The Committee considered that 
good progress had been made against the non-
financial targets of strategy execution and people, 
whilst the Project Merlin lending intentions had been 
exceeded both in terms of total and SME facilities. 
Notwithstanding strong management of the UK 
business during the riots in the summer of 2011 and 
the Middle East business during the political unrest 
across the region, due to the incidence of the PPI 
redress settlement and the mis-selling instances 
uncovered at NHFA Limited, the Committee 
determined that there could be no award under this 
element of the scorecard. 
I J Mackay 
The performance scorecard for I J Mackay was 
weighted 40% financial, 60% non-financial, 
reflecting the nature of his responsibilities. In 
aggregate, in assessing the quantum of the 2011 
annual bonus against the theoretical maximum 
opportunity of three times base salary, an overall 
score of 52% of that maximum opportunity was 
judged to have been achieved. The Committee 
considered that performance against the financial 
targets of cost disciplines, functional operating costs 
and capital and liquidity management had been met 
or were in progress. The Committee considered that 
performance against the non-financial targets 
including people, reporting and planning was in 
progress. With regard to compliance and reputation, 
the incidence of the PPI redress settlement, the 
mis-selling instances uncovered at NHFA Limited 
and continuing legacy legal and compliance issues in 
the US, the Committee determined that there could 
be no award under this element of the scorecard. 
 
Annual bonus awards 
 2011 performance
1
 2010 performance 
 Non-deferred
2
 Deferred
2
 Non-deferred Deferred 
 
Cash 
Restricted
Shares Cash 
Restricted
Shares Cash 
Restricted 
Shares Cash 
Restricted
Shares 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 
V H C Cheng
3
 ................ – – – – 142 142 213 213 
D J Flint ......................... – – – – 560 560 840 840 
A A Flockhart ................ – 770 – 1,156 362 362 542 542 
S T Gulliver
4
 .................. – 862 – 1,294 – – – 5,200 
I J Mackay ..................... – 434 – 652 12 12 18 18 
1 The awards made in respect of 2011 performance will be delivered as described on page 259. 
2 50% of the deferred and non deferred shares award are subject to a 6 month retention period. 
3 Retired as a Director on 27 May 2011. 
4 S T Gulliver requested that 100% of the award made to him in respect of 2010 performance be fully deferred in Restricted Shares 
subject to the standard vesting and retention period.  
Group Performance Share Plan 
2010 awards 
In determining the level of GPSP award granted on 
23 June 2011, the Committee used the 2010 
long-term performance scorecard detailed below.  
The financial targets were commensurate with 
the published targets for 2010. The assessment of 
performance against the financial measures was 
based upon the published outcome and the non-
financial performance represented the considered 
view of the Committee. 
In considering the overall performance against 
the scorecard a simple approach was adopted. Each 
measure in the financial targets section was given a 
weighting of 15% of the total and each measure in 
the non-financial section was given a weighting of 
10%. Where individual targets consisted of a range, 
a straight-line approach was applied, with 50% 
weighting on entry to the range rising on a straight  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Executive Directors’ remuneration > GPSP 
 
 
262 
line basis to 100% weighting at the maximum 
performance target.  
The only financial measure that exceeded the 
range for 2010 was capital strength with a core tier 1 
capital ratio of 10.5%. The dividend payout fell 
within the range and the ranges for the ‘Return 
on equity’ and ‘Cost efficiency ratio’ financial 
measures were not met. Within the non-financial 
measures the Committee’s considered view was that 
‘Strategy’, ‘Brand equity’ and ‘People’ had been 
partially met and a partial weighting was applied. 
The target for the ‘Compliance and reputation’ 
measure was not met for 2010.  
Using this approach, the initial guideline for the 
performance outcome for 2010 was calculated as 
38.2% of the maximum face value of awards as 
detailed below. 
 
2010 long-term scorecard and initial performance outcome  
Measure 
 Long-term 
 target range 
 (pre 2011) 
 
 
 Weighting 
 Actual 2010 
 Performance 
 
 Outcome 
Return on equity ..............................................................  15% – 19%  15%  9.5%
1
   – 
Cost efficiency ratio .......................................................  48% – 52%  15%  55.2%
1
   – 
Capital strength ...............................................................  7.5% – 10%  15%  10.5%
1
   15.0% 
Dividends (payout ratio) .................................................  40% – 70%  15%  46.6%
1
   9.2% 
Strategy ...........................................................................  Judgement  10%  Judgement   4.0% 
Brand equity ................................................................... 
 Top 3 rating and 
 improve US$bn value  10% 
 Top 3 rating but 
 drop in value
2
   5.0% 
Compliance and reputation .............................................  Judgement  10%  Not met   – 
People .............................................................................  Judgement  10%  Judgement   5.0% 
Mechanical performance outcome .................................   100%    38.2% 
Committee discretion ......................................................      31.3% 
1 As reported in Annual Report and Accounts 2010. 
2 Based on results from The Brand Finance
®
 Banking 500 2011 Survey.  
Notwithstanding this, during the shareholder 
consultation process in respect of the GPSP, the 
Committee had committed to shareholders that it 
would be conservative when determining the first 
awards to be made. Accordingly the Committee 
determined that the initial performance outcome 
should be reduced further to give a final performance 
outcome for 2010 of 31.3%. 
This performance outcome was then applied to 
maximum face values (expressed as a percentage of 
salary) for each participant. The awards made in 
respect of 2010 are detailed below:  
 
  Maximum face
 value of award 
 Performance  
 outcome 
  Awards 
 made 
S T Gulliver ................................................................................................................  600%  31.3%   187.8% 
A A Flockhart .............................................................................................................  350%  31.3%   109.6% 
I J Mackay ..................................................................................................................  300%  31.3%   93.9% 
2011 awards 
Awards to be granted in 2012 in respect of 2011 
were assessed against the 2011 long-term scorecard 
detailed overleaf.  
The performance outcome under the 2011 long-
term scorecard was again based upon the 
Committee’s assessment of the achievement of the 
objectives as detailed above. This approach took into 
account performance under both financial and non-
financial objectives and was set within the context of 
the risk appetite and strategic direction agreed by the 
Board.  
Irrespective of the performance outcome, 
eligibility for a GPSP award requires confirmation 
of adherence to HSBC Values and all participants 
passed that test in 2011. 
The weighting between financial and non-
financial measures was set at 60% and 40% 
respectively. In aggregate an overall performance 
outcome of 50% of the scorecard was judged to have 
been achieved. A summary of the assessment and 
rationale for the conclusions is set out below.   
263 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
2011 long-term scorecard and performance outcome  
Measure 
 Long-term 
 target range 
 
 
 Weighting 
 Actual 2011 
 performance 
 
 Outcome 
Return on equity ..............................................................  12% – 15%  15%  10.9%
1
   – 
Cost efficiency ratio .......................................................  48% – 52%  15%  57.5%
1
   – 
Capital strength ...............................................................  >10%  15%  10.1%
1
   15.0% 
Dividends (payout ratio) .................................................  40% – 60%  15%  42.4%
1
   15.0% 
Strategy ...........................................................................  Judgement  10%  Judgement   7.5% 
Brand equity ................................................................... 
 Top 3 rating and 
 improve US$bn value  10% 
 Top 3 rating but 
  drop in value
2
   5.0% 
Compliance and reputation .............................................  Judgement  10%  Not met   – 
People and values ...........................................................  Judgement  10%  Judgement   7.5% 
Performance outcome .....................................................   100%    50.0% 
1 As reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2011. 
2 Based on results from The Brand Finance
®
 Banking 500 2012 Survey. 
Financial (60% weighting – achieved 30%) 
The Committee considered that in the key areas 
of ‘Capital Strength’ and ‘Dividend Progression’, 
HSBC was meeting its short-term targets and 
preparing carefully for the incoming higher 
standards embedded within the new regulatory 
regime. Accordingly these elements of longer-term 
financial performance were fully met.  
The Group did not however meet its targets for 
Return On Equity or the Cost Efficiency Ratio in 
2011. The Committee considered the extent to 
which steps had been taken to improve both 
metrics over the longer term. In its deliberations, 
the Committee noted positively the progress under 
the five filters approach to divesting or closing 
underperforming and sub-scale businesses, the 
business model and organisational efficiency 
programmes underway to deliver targeted cost 
savings, the focus in terms of capital deployment 
on sustainable opportunities within the larger 
economies in which the Group has meaningful 
positions and in the faster-growing markets which 
will drive incremental trade and investment flows, 
and lastly the concentration on businesses that take 
advantage of the connectivity of the Group’s 
geographical reach and global business product 
platforms. 
The Committee scored progress towards the 
Return on Equity and Cost Efficiency Ratio targets 
but concluded at this early stage in the application 
of the GPSP it would not make any partial award 
for such achievement. This will be looked at again 
in future years. 
Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 20%)  
With regard to ‘Strategy’, looking at progress made 
on addressing the longer term issues, the 
Committee looked favourably on the framework 
developed and being actioned to address 
underperforming and sub-scale businesses. Greater 
clarity has also been brought to the Board on the 
options to deliver more value from the Group’s 
leading position in mainland China, to develop a 
larger Wealth Management business and to reshape 
the long term business of HSBC in the US. Given 
the clarity delivered, the Committee awarded 75% 
achievement for this element. 
On ‘People and values’ the Committee 
awarded 75% of the available opportunity of 
10% to reflect how well and quickly the new 
management team has been constructed, positive 
actions regarding team building and succession 
planning, the roll out of the HSBC Values and the 
well thought out re-shaping of the organisational 
structure under the new leadership team. 
In considering ‘Brand equity’ the Committee 
noted positively the recognition in February 2012 
in the Brand Finance
®
 Banking 500 2012 report 
that HSBC was judged to be the most valuable 
banking brand in the world, rising from third place 
one year prior. Despite the no. 1 rating in the Brand 
Finance survey the value of the brand (as measured 
using Brand Finance’s methodology) decreased 
during 2011 and accordingly only 50% 
achievement was awarded to this element. 
Finally with regard to ‘Compliance and 
reputation’, the Committee concluded that as a  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Executive Directors’ remuneration > GPSP / 2011 executive Directors’ emoluments and remuneration 
 
 
264 
consequence of the incidence of the PPI redress 
settlement, the mis-selling instances uncovered at 
NHFA Limited and continuing legacy legal and 
compliance issues in the US, there could be no 
award under this element of the scorecard. 
The performance outcome of 50% was then 
applied to maximum face values (expressed as a 
percentage of salary) for each participant. The 
awards to be made in respect of 2011 are detailed 
below: 
 
  Maximum face
 value of award 
 Performance  
 outcome 
  Awards 
 made 
S T Gulliver ................................................................................................................  600%  50%   300% 
I J Mackay ..................................................................................................................  200%  50%   100% 
 
2012 long-term scorecard 
The long-term scorecard against which performance 
will be assessed in 2012 is detailed below. The 2012 
scorecard remains consistent with 2011, with the 
exception that the weighting for strategy has been 
increased from 10% to 20% to emphasise the 
importance of this element. This increase in 
weighting has been accommodated by a reduction 
from 10% to 5% for both ‘Brand equity’ and ‘People 
and values’. Overall performance is to be judged on 
performance outcomes and adherence to HSBC 
Values. 
2012 scorecard 
 
 Long-term 
 target range   Weighting 
Measure    
Return on equity .......................................................................................................................... 12% – 15%   15% 
Cost efficiency ratio .................................................................................................................... 48% – 52%   15% 
Capital strength ............................................................................................................................ >10%   15% 
Progressive dividend payout within 40%-60% range ................................................................. 40% – 60%   15% 
Strategy ........................................................................................................................................ Judgement   20% 
Brand equity ................................................................................................................................
 Top 3 rating and  
 improve US$bn value   5% 
Compliance and reputation .......................................................................................................... Judgement   10% 
People and values ........................................................................................................................ Judgement   5% 
    100% 
 
2011 Executive Directors’ variable pay summary 
The Committee is conscious of the different 
requirements for disclosing the various elements of 
variable pay. The table below simply details in one 
place the actual salary and variable pay awarded to the 
executive Directors in respect of the 2011 
performance year. 
 
  A A Flockhart S T Gulliver I J Mackay 
(Unaudited) 
Maximum 
Multiple 
  2011 
 Multiple 
 awarded  
 2011 
 £000 
 2010
 £000 
 2011 
 Multiple 
 awarded 
 2011
 £000 
 2010
 £000 
 2011 
 Multiple 
 awarded  
 2011 
 £000  
 2010
 £000 
Salary
1
 ............ 1.00   1.00 975 820  1.00 1,250 800  1.00 700 57 
Annual bonus
2
 
 
 3.00   1.98 1,926 1,808  1.72 2,156 5,200  1.55 1,086 61 
GPSP awards
3
  6.00   – – 1,069  3.00 3,750 2,350  1.00 700 55 
Total ...............    2,901 3,697  7,156 8,350  2,486 173 
1 As disclosed in the Directors emoluments table on page 265. 
2 As disclosed in the Directors remuneration table on page 265. The 2011 bonus will be fully delivered in HSBC shares, 60% of the bonus 
is deferred over a period of three years, 33% vests on the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on the third anniversary of 
grant. During the vesting period the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. 
3 As disclosed in the 2011 long-term scorecard and performance outcome on page 263. The award is subject to a five-year vesting period 
during which the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. On vesting the net of tax shares must be retained 
until the participant retires. 
   
 
265 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
2011 executive Directors’ emoluments and 
remuneration 
The following table shows the 2011 emoluments 
of the Group Chairman and executive Directors of  
HSBC Holdings, with annual bonus disclosed on an 
actual paid basis, pursuant to section 421 of the UK 
Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008: 
 V H C Cheng
1
  D J Flint A A Flockhart S T Gulliver  I J Mackay
1 
(Audited) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
£000           
Salary ............................ 382 775 1,500 845 975 820 1,250 800 700 57 
Allowances
2 
.................. 142 193 750 434 366 – 527 154 364 36 
Benefits in kind
3 
............ 133 311 98 8 237 629 266 17 363 27 
Bonus
4  
........................... 124 284 1,054 1,805 1,627 1,385 4,559 2,934 446 24 
Total emoluments ......... 781 1,563 3,402 3,092 3,205 2,834 6,602 3,905 1,873 144 
US$000 
Total emoluments ......... 1,252 2,414 5,452 4,775 5,136 4,377 10,581 6,031 3,002 222 
The following table shows the 2011 total 
remuneration of the Group Chairman and executive 
Directors of HSBC Holdings with annual bonus 
disclosed on a 2011 performance year basis, 
pursuant to the UK Listing Rules. Explanations of 
the constituent parts of the bonus calculated pursuant 
to the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing 
Rules are given in footnotes 4 and 5, respectively.  
 V H C Cheng
1
  D J Flint A A Flockhart S T Gulliver  I J Mackay
1 
(Unaudited) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
£000           
Salary, allowances and 
benefits in kind .......... 657 1,279 2,348 1,287 1,578 1,449 2,043 971 1,427 120 
Bonus
5 
........................... – 711 – 2,800 1,926 1,808 2,156 5,200 1,086 61 
Total remuneration ....... 657 1,990 2,348 4,087 3,504 3,257 4,199 6,171 2,513 181 
US$000 
Total remuneration ....... 1,053 3,073 3,763 6,312 5,616 5,030 6,729 9,530 4,027 280 
1 V H C Cheng retired as a Director on 27 May 2011 and I J Mackay was appointed as a Director on 3 December 2010. 
2 Allowances include an executive allowance paid to fund personal pension arrangements.  
3 Benefits in kind include provision of medical insurance, other insurance cover, accountancy advice and travel assistance. S T Gulliver is 
also provided with HSBC owned accommodation whilst in Hong Kong. In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the taxable rental value of the property is shown for the whole period from 4 August 
2011 to 31 December 2011 notwithstanding that it is only occupied when S T Gulliver is in Hong Kong. I J Mackay relocated to London 
and he received temporary accommodation for him and his family together with other normal relocation benefits. Prior to relocating to 
the UK from Hong Kong, and whilst being subject to tax in Hong Kong, A A Flockhart also incurred a tax liability in the UK as a result 
of a number of business trips to the UK at the request of the Group. This liability was covered by HSBC.  
4 Where applicable, bonus comprises: (i) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares that will 
vest on 15 March 2012 arising from the 2010 bonus awarded in March 2011 that was partly deferred into awards of HSBC Holdings 
Restricted Shares, as follows: V H C Cheng, £53,000, D J Flint, £219,000, A A Flockhart, £141,000, S T Gulliver, £1,353,000 and 
I J Mackay, £5,000; (ii) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares that will vest on 
5 March 2012 arising from the 2009 bonus awarded in March 2010 that was fully deferred into awards of HSBC Restricted Shares as 
follows: D J Flint, £547,000, A A Flockhart, £529,000 and S T Gulliver, £2,343,000 and (iii) 40% of the annual bonus in respect of the 
2011 performance year that is non-deferred. The non-deferred bonus is payable in HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares, 50% of which are 
subject to a six month retention period. Full details are set out above and on page 259. 
5 The bonus for 2011 comprises the deferred and non-deferred bonus, details of which are set out above and on pages 259. 
Performance Shares under the HSBC Share 
Plan (This plan is no longer in use) 
As previously noted this plan has been replaced by 
the HSBC Share Plan 2011 which includes the 
GPSP. The last award made under this plan was in 
2008 and vested in 2011. Accordingly the plan is 
detailed below. No further awards will be made 
under this plan. 
The average actual vesting of Performance 
Share awards made in 2004 to 2008 (which were 
tested in 2007 to 2011) has been 25.77% of their 
face value. The awards granted in 2008 did not 
satisfy the earnings per share (‘EPS’) or economic 
profit conditions but did satisfy the total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) condition and accordingly 21.3% of 
the overall award vested.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Executive Directors’ remuneration > Emoluments / Funding / TSR / Pensions / Changes / Guidelines 
 
 
266 
 
Delivery HSBC Performance Shares 
Policy • Face value up to a maximum of seven times 
fixed pay.  
• Vesting of awards based on three 
independent performance measures; TSR 
(40%), economic profit (40%), growth in 
EPS (20%). 
• Performance conditions measured over a 
three year period. 
Timing • Last award made in 2008 and shares under 
the plan were released in March 2011. 
Performance Shares plan replaced by the 
GPSP. 
Description of performance conditions 
The performance measures for the long-term 
incentive awards of Performance Shares under 
the HSBC Share Plan were as follows. 
The vesting of awards was based on three 
independent performance measures and an 
overriding ‘sustained improvement’ judgement 
by the Committee. The three Group measures were 
relative TSR (40% of the award); economic profit 
(40%); and growth in EPS (20%). 
These measures provided a basis on which to 
measure our relative and absolute performance 
over the long term. They take into account an 
external measure of value creation, a measure of the 
extent to which the return on capital invested in 
HSBC is in excess of a benchmark return and a 
direct measure of the profits generated for 
shareholders.  
Awards did not vest unless the Committee was 
satisfied that our financial performance had shown a 
sustained improvement in the period since the award 
date. In determining whether we had achieved 
such sustained improvement the Committee 
took account of all relevant factors, in particular, 
comparisons against the TSR comparator group 
in areas such as revenue growth and mix, cost 
efficiency, credit performance, cash return on cash 
invested, dividends and TSR. 
The performance measures and the targets 
described below applied to the last awards made in 
2008 which vested and were released in April 2011. 
Total shareholder return award 
TSR was measured against a comparator group 
comprising the largest global banks in the world as 
well as other banks against which we compete for 
business at a regional and/or local level. These 
companies were: 
 
TSR comparator group  
AGEAS ICBC 
Banco Bradesco Itau Unibanco 
Banco Santander JPMorgan Chase  
Bank of America Lloyds Banking Group 
Bank of China National Australia Bank  
Barclays Royal Bank of Canada  
BBVA Royal Bank of Scotland  
BNP Paribas Société Générale  
Citigroup Standard Chartered  
Credit Suisse Group UBS  
DBS Group UniCredito Italiano  
Deutsche Bank Wells Fargo  
To reflect the fact that the range of market 
capitalisations within the comparator group is very 
wide, a free float market capitalisation (‘FFMC’) 
weighted method was used to calculate TSR 
performance. Under this approach, our out-
performance of the comparator group was calculated 
by dividing the total FFMC of all of the companies 
that we had outperformed in terms of TSR by the 
total FFMC of all of the companies in the 
comparator group. The extent to which the TSR 
award vested was determined as follows: 
If HSBC’s TSR outperforms 
companies comprising 
 Proportion of TSR 
award vesting
1
 
75% of the total FFMC  100% 
50% of the total FFMC  20% 
< 50% of the total FFMC   nil 
1 Vesting occurred in a straight line between 20% and 100% 
where our performance fell between these incremental steps. 
Economic profit award 
Economic profit (‘EP’) was calculated as the average 
annual difference between return on invested capital 
and our benchmark cost of capital and was expressed 
as a percentage.  
For the awards made in 2008 the benchmark 
cost of capital was 10%. Return on invested capital 
is based on the profit attributable to shareholders. 
The extent to which the EP award vested was 
determined as follows: 
Average annual EP over  
three years 
 Proportion of EP  
award vesting
1
 
8% or above  100% 
< 3%  nil 
1 Vesting occurred in a straight line between 0% and 100% 
where our performance fell between these incremental steps. 
Earnings per share award 
Growth in EPS was measured on a point to point 
basis, by comparing EPS in the third financial year 
of the performance period with EPS in the financial 
year preceding that in which the award was made.   
 
267 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
EPS growth in year 3 over  
the base EPS 
 Proportion of EPS 
award vesting
1
 
28% or above  100% 
16%  20% 
< 16%  nil 
1 Vesting occurred in a straight line between 20% and 100% 
where our performance fell between these incremental steps. 
Funding 
The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share 
plans comply with the Association of British 
Insurers’ guidelines. To date, all awards of 
Performance Shares and Restricted Shares vesting 
under the HSBC Share Plan have been satisfied by 
the transfer of existing shares. To create additional 
core tier 1 capital and retain funds within HSBC, the 
Board has agreed that new shares may be issued to 
satisfy the vesting of Restricted Shares awards and 
GPSP awards that cannot be satisfied from shares 
already held by employee benefit trusts. 
Total shareholder return 
Pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008, the graph below shows the TSR performance 
against the FTSE 100 Index for the five-year period 
ended 31 December 2011. The FTSE 100 Index has 
been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity 
market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. 
HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Index 
70%
80%
90%
100%
110%
120%
Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011
HSBC TSR FTSE 100
 
Source: International Data Corporation 
Pensions 
The normal retirement age for executive Directors 
is 65. The pension entitlements of the executive 
Directors for 2011 are set out on page 271. 
Senior management changes 
V H C Cheng, Chairman of HSBC Bank (China) 
Company Limited, retired from the Group on 
27 May 2011. 
M F Geoghegan stepped down from the 
Board and his Group Chief Executive position on 
31 December 2010. Upon retirement on 31 March 
2011, M F Geoghegan received in lieu of the 
remaining nine months’ notice period required 
to terminate the service agreement, £1,027,500 
and a pension contribution equal to £401,250. 
M F Geoghegan provided consultancy to HSBC 
for a period of three months from 1 April 2011 and 
was paid a consultancy fee of £200,000, which he 
stated he intended to donate to charity. No annual 
variable pay award has been recommended for 2011. 
Share ownership guidelines  
To ensure appropriate alignment with our 
shareholders, we operate a formal share ownership 
policy, expressed as a number of shares, for 
executive Directors and the Group Managing 
Directors. The Committee considers that material 
share ownership by executives creates a community 
of interest between senior management and 
shareholders. 
Under the existing guidelines, the shareholding 
is expected to be achieved within five years of the 
executive’s appointment. The executive Directors 
and Group Managing Directors are required to build 
and retain the following shareholdings: 
 
  At 31 December  
  2011  2010 
  Shares to 
  be held
1
 Shares
 held
1
 Estimated 
 value 
  Shares 
 held
1
 
  Estimated 
 value 
  (Number) (Number) £000   (Number)   £000 
D J Flint ............................................................................................... 400,000 626,342 3,076 494,933 3,223 
A A Flockhart ...................................................................................... 200,000 1,420,535 6,976 1,066,450 6,944 
S T Gulliver ......................................................................................... 600,000 4,892,014 24,025 4,279,244 27,862 
I J Mackay ........................................................................................... 200,000 424,735 2,086 287,719 1,873 
Group Managing Directors .................................................................. 125,000 –
2
– –
2
 – 
1 For the purposes of the guidelines, unvested awards of Restricted Shares and GPSP awards are included.  
2 All of the Group Managing Directors exceed the expected holdings.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Executive Directors’ remuneration > Other directorships // Non-executive Directors > Fees // Employee compensation 
 
 
268 
The Committee monitors compliance with the 
share ownership guidelines annually. The Committee 
has full discretion in determining any penalties in 
cases of non-compliance, which could include a 
reduction of future awards of GPSP and/or an 
increase in the proportion of the annual variable pay 
that is deferred into shares. 
Service contracts 
Our policy is to employ executive Directors on one-
year rolling contracts although longer initial terms 
may be approved by the Committee if considered 
appropriate. The Committee will, consistent with 
the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise 
termination payments. 
 
Name  
 Contract date 
 (rolling)  
 Notice period
 (Director & HSBC) 
Compensation on termination by the company without 
notice or cause 
V H C Cheng    15 March 2011   12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. 
D J Flint    14 February 2011   12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. 
A A Flockhart    14 February 2011   12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a 
variable pay award upon termination of employment other 
than where the executive has resigned or the Company has 
terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual 
right to do so. 
S T Gulliver
1
   10 February 2011   12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a 
variable pay award upon termination of employment other 
than where the executive has resigned or the Company has 
terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual 
right to do so. 
I J Mackay   4 February 2011   12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a 
variable pay award upon termination of employment other 
than where the executive has resigned or the Company has 
terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual 
right to do so. 
1 The other benefits as part of the payment in lieu of notice do not include the accommodation and car provided in Hong Kong. 
Other directorships 
Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the 
Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept 
appointments as non-executive Directors of suitable 
companies which are not part of HSBC. Approval 
will not be given for executive Directors to accept a 
non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE 
100 company nor the chairmanship of such a 
company. When considering a non-executive 
appointment, the Nomination Committee or Board 
will take into account the expected time commitment 
of such appointment. The time commitment for 
executive Directors’ external appointments will be 
reviewed as part of the annual Board review. Any 
remuneration receivable in respect of an external 
appointment is normally paid to HSBC, unless 
otherwise approved by the Committee. D J Flint was 
a non-executive Director of BP p.l.c. until 14 April 
2011 and, during his directorship, elected to donate 
his fees to charity. 
Non-executive Directors 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed 
terms not exceeding three years, subject to their 
re-election by shareholders at Annual General 
Meetings. Non-executive directors have no service 
contract and are not eligible to participate in our 
share plans. Current non-executive Directors’ terms 
of appointment will expire as follows:  
• in 2012, M K T Cheung, J R Lomax, 
Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir 
Brian Williamson;  
• in 2013, R A Fairhead and G Morgan; and 
• in 2014, S A Catz, L M L Cha, J D Coombe, 
J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, 
N R N Murthy. 
Dr J Faber and J P Lipsky were appointed as 
non-executive Directors with effect from 1 March 
2012. Subject to their re-election by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting in 2012, their terms will 
expire in 2015.   
 
269 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fees 
Non-executive Directors’ fees are regularly reviewed 
and compared with other large international 
companies of comparable complexity. The current 
fee, which was approved by shareholders in 2011, 
is £95,000 per annum. 
A fee of £45,000 per annum is payable to the 
senior independent non-executive Director. In 
addition, non-executive Directors received the 
following fees for service on Board Committees: 
 
Board Committee annual fees 
 
 Chairman Member 
  Number of
 meetings
 held during
  £000 £000   2011
Group Audit Committee ............................................................................................... 50 30 7
Group Risk Committee ................................................................................................. 50 30 6
Group Remuneration Committee ................................................................................. 50 30 9
Nomination Committee ................................................................................................ 40 25 4
Corporate Sustainability Committee ............................................................................ 40 25 4
 
The total of fees paid to each of the non-
executive Directors of HSBC Holdings for 2011, 
being emoluments for the purposes of the 
UK Companies Act 2006, is as follows: 
Fees paid to non-executive Directors 
(Audited) 
 2011 2010 
 £000 £000 
S A Catz ...................................................................................................................................................... 95 65 
L M L Cha
1 
................................................................................................................................................. 465 – 
M K T Cheung
2 
........................................................................................................................................... 165 112 
J D Coombe ................................................................................................................................................ 205 130 
R A Fairhead ............................................................................................................................................... 200 152 
J W J Hughes-Hallett .................................................................................................................................. 150 105 
W S H Laidlaw ........................................................................................................................................... 125 85 
J R Lomax ................................................................................................................................................... 155 102 
G Morgan .................................................................................................................................................... 125 85 
N R N Murthy ............................................................................................................................................. 135 91 
Sir Simon Robertson ................................................................................................................................... 166 115 
J L Thornton
3
............................................................................................................................................... 1,081 1,068 
Sir Brian Williamson .................................................................................................................................. 120 87 
Total
4
 ........................................................................................................................................................... 3,187 2,329 
Total (US$000)
4
 .......................................................................................................................................... 5,108 3,597 
1 Includes fees as non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited during the 
year and a member of its Nomination Committee from 1 October 2011. 
2 Includes fees as non-executive Director and member of the Audit Committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited. 
3 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
4 Total fees for 2010 include the fees of non-executive Directors who retired in that year. 
Employee compensation and 
benefits 
Set out below are details of remuneration paid to 
Senior Management (being executive Directors and 
Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) for 
the year ended 31 December 2011 or for the period 
of appointment as a Director or Group Managing 
Director. 
Emoluments of Senior Management 
 Senior
management
£000 
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in 
kind ........................................................... 17,191 
Pension contributions ................................... 860 
Bonuses paid or receivable ........................... 37,321 
Inducements to join paid or receivable ......... – 
Compensation for loss of office ................... – 
Total .............................................................. 55,372 
Total (US$000) ............................................. 88,740  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Employee compensation / Pensions 
 
 
270 
The aggregate emoluments of Senior 
Management for the year ended 31 December 2011 
was US$88,740,342. The emoluments of Senior 
Management were within the following bands: 
 
 Number
senior
management
£0 - £1,000,000 ............................................ 2
£1,000,001 – £2,000,000 ............................. 1
£2,000,001 – £3,000,000 ............................. 3
£3,000,001 – £4,000,000 ............................. 8
£4,000,001 – £5,000,000 ............................. 1
£7,000,001 – £8,000,000 ............................. 1
£8,000,001 – £9,000,000 ............................. 1
 
The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to 
provide pension, retirement or similar for executive 
Directors and Senior Management for the year ended 
31 December 2011 was US$1,377,618. 
Set out below are details of remuneration paid 
to the five individuals whose emoluments were the 
highest in HSBC (including one executive Director 
and three Group Managing Directors of HSBC 
Holdings), for the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Emoluments of the 5 highest paid employees 
 5 highest paid
employees
£000 
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits  
in kind ...................................................... 5,244 
Pension contributions .................................. 391 
Bonuses paid or receivable .......................... 20,193 
Inducements to join paid or receivable ........ 1,892 
Compensation for loss of office .................. – 
Total ............................................................. 27,720 
Total (US$000) ............................................ 44,425 
The emoluments of the five highest paid 
employees were within the following bands: 
  Number of
 5 highest paid
 employees
£3,900,001 – £4,000,000 ............................. 1
£4,200,001 – £4,300,000 ............................. 1
£4,300,001 – £4,400,000 ............................. 1
£7,100,001 – £7,200,000 ............................. 1
£8,000,001 – £8,100,000 ............................. 1
 
Remuneration of 8 highest paid senior executives (members of the GMB, but not Directors of HSBC Holdings plc) 
Employee 1  2 3 4 5 6  7  8 
 £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000  £000  £000 
Fixed             
Cash based ..................... 650  623 650 650 654 650  481  624 
Total fixed ..................... 650  623 650 650 654 650  481  624 
Annual bonus
1
            
Cash ............................... –  375 – – 493 –  271  374 
Non-deferred shares
2
...... 1,812  375 451 717 493 570  271  374 
Deferred cash ................. –  563 – – 740 –  407  562 
Deferred shares ............... 2,718  563 677 1,076 740 854  407  562 
Total annual bonus ...... 4,530  1,876 1,128 1,793 2,466 1,424  1,356  1,872 
Long-term incentive 
plan (GPSP) ............. 
           
Deferred shares .............. 1,950  1,250 1,950 975 – 975  724  – 
Total variable pay .......... 6,480  3,127 3,078 2,768 2,466 2,399  2,081  1,872 
            
Total remuneration ..... 7,130  3,749 3,728 3,418 3,120 3,049  2,562  2,496 
US$000            
Total remuneration ...... 11,427  6,009 5,975 5,477 5,000 4,886  4,106  4,000 
1 Annual bonus in respect of performance year 2011. 
2 Awards vested, subject to a 6 month retention period. For UK based employees 50% of the awards vested are subject to a 6 month 
retention period. 
3 For UK based employees 50% of the deferred shares under the annual bonus are subject to a 6 month retention period post vesting. 
   
 
271 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Pensions  
(Audited) 
V H C Cheng retired on 27 May 2011 and until that 
date was a member of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region Mandatory Provident Fund 
(‘MPF’). Until 27 May 2011 Mr Cheng received an 
executive allowance of 25% of annual basic salary, 
less the mandatory contributions to the MPF by both 
the employer and employee, to fund personal 
pension arrangements of HK$1,185,578. Until 
27 May 2011, the mandatory employer contribution 
to the MPF in respect of Mr Cheng was HK$5,000. 
D J Flint received an executive allowance of 
50% of annual basic salary in lieu of personal 
pension arrangements. The executive allowance for 
2011 amounted to £750,000. 
A A Flockhart received employer contributions 
of 50% of basic salary into a personal pension plan 
from 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011. From 1 April 
2011 Mr Flockhart received employer contributions of 
1.8% of basic salary into a personal pension plan and 
an executive allowance of 48.2% of basic salary. The 
employer contributions and the executive allowance 
for the whole of 2011 amounted to £487,500. 
S T Gulliver received employer contributions of 
19.2% of basic salary into a personal pension plan and 
an executive allowance of 30.8% of basic salary from 
1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011. From 1 April 2011 
Mr Gulliver received employer contributions of 4% 
of basic salary into a personal pension plan and an 
executive allowance of 46% of basic salary. The 
employer contributions and the executive allowance 
for the whole of 2011 amounted to £625,000. 
I J Mackay received an executive allowance of 
50% of basic annual salary in lieu of personal pension 
arrangements. The executive allowance for 2011 
amounted to £350,000.
 
Defined Benefit Pension arrangements 
 Accrued  
 annual 
 pension at  
 31 December 
 2011  
 Increase in
 accrued
 pension
 during
 2011  
 Increase in 
 accrued 
 pension 
 during 2011, 
 excluding 
 any increase
  for inflation 
 Transfer 
 value 
 of accrued 
  pension at 
  31 December 
 2010
1 
 Transfer 
 value
 of accrued 
 pension at 
 31 December
  2011
1
 Increase of 
 transfer value 
 of accrued 
 pension (less 
 personal 
contributions) 
 in 2011
1
  
 Transfer value 
 (less personal 
 contributions) at 
 31 December 2011 
 relating to increase 
 in accrued pension 
 during 2011, 
 excluding any
 increase for inflation
1
 £000   £000   £000  £000 
 
 £000 £000   £000 
A A Flockhart
2
 ... 307 24 12 4,974 5,638 664  236 
1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBC’s pension fund and not a sum paid or due to the individual; it cannot therefore 
meaningfully be added to annual remuneration. 
2 A A Flockhart ceased accrual of pension in the International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’) on 30 November 2008 and he 
has deferred commencement of his pension. The ISRBS retains a liability for a contingent spouse’s pension of £134,000 per annum as at 
31 December 2011.  
 
The following table shows unfunded pension 
payments, in respect of which provision has been 
made, during 2011 to six former Directors of HSBC 
Holdings.  
The payments in respect of R Delbridge and 
Sir Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as 
former directors of that bank. The payment in 
respect of C F W de Croisset was made by HSBC 
France as a former director of that bank. 
Unfunded pension payments 
 2011 
£ 
2010 
£ 
B H Asher ......................................... 106,441 101,858 
C F W de Croisset ............................ 250,910 237,662 
R Delbridge ...................................... 153,099 146,507 
Lord Green ....................................... 40,946 2,992 
Sir Brian Pearse ................................ 63,844 61,095 
Sir William Purves ........................... 112,679 107,827 
 727,919 657,941 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Share plans 
 
 
272 
Share Plans 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2011, the undernamed Directors 
held options, awards of Performance Shares and 
Restricted Shares under the HSBC Share Plan and 
conditional awards of shares under the GPSP to 
acquire the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares set against their respective names. 
HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Exercisable   
 Date of
 award
 Exercise 
 price (£) from
1
 until
 At 
 1 Jan 
  2011 
 
 At
 31 Dec
 2011
D J Flint ...............................................  25 Apr 2007  6.1760  1 Aug 2012  31 Jan 2013 2,650 2,650 
A A Flockhart ......................................  29 Apr 2009  3.3116  1 Aug 2014  31 Jan 2015 4,529 4,529 
   US$     
I J Mackay ...........................................  30 Apr 2008  11.8824  1 Aug 2011  31 Jan 2012 1,531 1,531 
The HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are all-employee share plans under which eligible HSBC employees may be 
granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Employees may make contributions of up to £250 (or equivalent) each month 
over a period of one, three or five years which may be used on the first, third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the relevant 
savings contract, at the employee’s election, to exercise the options. The plans help align the interests of employees with the creation of 
shareholder value and, as such, exercise of the options is not subject to any performance conditions. The options were awarded for nil 
consideration and are exercisable at a 20% discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days 
immediately preceding the invitation date. No options lapsed during the year. There are no performance criteria conditional upon which 
the outstanding options are exercisable and there have been no variations to the terms and conditions since the awards were made. The 
market value per ordinary share at 31 December 2011 was £4.911. The highest and lowest market values per ordinary share during the 
year were £7.395 and £4.564. Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the 
relevant date. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised as unlisted physically settled equity 
derivatives. 
1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. retirement. 
Awards of Performance Shares 
HSBC Share Plan  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Awards vested 
during year
1,2
  
 
 Date of
 award
 Year in
 which
 awards
 may vest
 Awards
 held at
 1 Jan
2011 Number
Monetary 
value  
 Awards
 held at
 31 Dec
 2011
    £000  
V H C Cheng .......................................  3 Jun 2008  2011 163,188 35,433 230  –
3
 
D J Flint ...............................................  3 Jun 2008  2011 470,596 102,184 662  – 
A A Flockhart ......................................  3 Jun 2008  2011 160,474 34,844 226  – 
S T Gulliver .........................................  3 Jun 2008  2011 69,917 15,181 98  – 
Vesting of these awards of Performance Shares is subject to the achievement of the corporate performance conditions set out on pages 265 
to 267. Interests in awards of Performance Shares are categorised under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong as the 
interests of a beneficiary of a trust.  
1 The performance conditions of the total shareholder return element of the award were partially met and the following part of the awards 
vested on 4 April 2011, when the market value per share was £6.48: V H C Cheng, 35,024 shares; D J Flint, 101,003 shares; 
A A Flockhart, 34,442 shares; and S T Gulliver, 15,006 shares. The following awards representing the fourth interim dividend for 2010 
vested on 5 May 2011, when the market value per share was £6.46: V H C Cheng, 409 shares; D J Flint, 1,181 shares; A A Flockhart, 
402 shares; and S T Gulliver, 175 shares. The market value per share on the date of the award, 3 June 2008, was £8.56. 
2 The performance conditions for the earnings per share, economic profit and the remaining part of the total shareholder return element 
of the award were not met and, under the terms of the Plan, the following awards were forfeited on 4 April 2011: V H C Cheng, 129,412 
shares; D J Flint, 373,193 shares; A A Flockhart, 127,259 shares; and S T Gulliver, 55,445 shares. As a consequence, the fourth interim 
dividend for 2010 did not accrue on the forfeited shares. 
3 Interest at 27 May 2011 – date of retirement. 
 
   
273 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Awards of Restricted Shares  
HSBC Share Plan  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Awards made 
during year 
Awards vested 
during year 
 
 Date of 
 award  
 Year in 
 which 
 awards 
 may vest 
  Awards
 held at
 1 Jan
 2011 Number
 Monetary
 value Number  
 Monetary 
 value 
 Awards
 held at
 31 Dec
 2011
1
    £000 £000  
V H C Cheng ......  2 Mar 2009   2012  510,226 – – – – 514,129
2
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
3
  198,773 – – – – 202,637
2
  15 Mar 2011  2012-2014  – 52,528
5
339 21,011
6
 136 31,885
2
D J Flint ..............  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
3
  316,252 – – 105,162
4
 713 220,201 
  15 Mar 2011  2012-2014  – 215,383
5
1,391 86,153
6
 557 133,280 
A A Flockhart .....  3 Mar 2008   2011  15,572 – – 15,875
7
 102 – 
  2 Mar 2009   2012  514,960 – – – – 535,162 
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
3
  305,806 – – 101,688
4
 689 212,927 
  15 Mar 2011  2012-2014  – 139,079
5
898 55,632
6
 359 86,062 
S T Gulliver ........  3 Mar 2008   2009-2011  192,796 – – 194,270
8
 1,317 – 
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
3
  1,355,371 – – 450,694
4
 3,056 943,723 
  15 Mar 2011   2012-2014  – 800,000
9
5,168 – – 825,072 
I J Mackay ..........  31 Jul 2007   2009-2011
10
  47,679 – – 49,035
11  
298 – 
  31 Mar 2008   2011  46,252 – – 47,152
12
 302 – 
  2 Mar 2009   2012  100,309 – – – – 104,244 
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
3
  59,262 – – 19,706
4
 134 41,263 
  15 Mar 2011   2012-2014  – 58,103
5
375 23,241
6
 150 35,954 
Vesting of Restricted Share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The vesting date may be 
advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. death or retirement. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, 
interests in Restricted Share awards granted in 2007 and 2008 are categorised as the interests of a beneficiary of a trust and interests in 
Restricted Share awards granted in 2009, 2010 and 2011 are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 
  1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 
  2 Interest at 27 May 2011– date of retirement. 
  3 33% of the award vests on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the third 
anniversary of the date of the award. 
  4 At the date of vesting, 28 February 2011, the market value per share was £6.78. The market value per share on the date of the award, 
1 March 2010, was £6.82. Market value is the middle market closing price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List 
on the relevant date. 
  5 At the date of the award, 15 March 2011, the market value per share was £6.46. The number of shares comprises a deferred award 
and non-deferred award of Restricted Shares. In respect of the deferred award, 33% vests on each of the first and second 
anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award. 
  6 The non-deferred award vested immediately on 15 March 2011 and is subject to a 6 month retention period. At the date of vesting, the 
market value per share was £6.46. 
  7 15,691 shares vested on 31 March 2011 when the market value per share was £6.41. The market value per share on the date of the 
award, 3 March 2008, was £7.90. An award of 184 shares representing the fourth interim dividend for 2010 vested on 5 May 2011 
when the market value per share was £6.46. 
  8 At the date of vesting, 28 February 2011, the market value per share was £6.78. The market value per share on the date of the award, 
3 March 2008, was £7.90. 
  9 At the date of the award, 15 March 2011, the market value per share was £6.46. The number of shares comprises a deferred award of 
Restricted Shares. 33% of the award vests on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance 
vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award. 
10 33% of the award vests on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the fourth 
anniversary of the date of the award. 
11 49,035 shares vested on 1 August 2011 when the market value per share was £6.08. 
12 46,606 shares vested on 31 March 2011 when the market value per share was £6.41. The market value per share on the date of the 
award, 31 March 2008, was £8.30. An award of 546 shares representing the fourth interim dividend for 2010 vested on 5 May 2011 
when the market value per share was £6.46. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Pensions // Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
 
 
274 
Conditional Awards under the GPSP 
HSBC Share Plan 2011 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 
Awards made 
during year
1
  
 
 Date of
award
 Year in
 which
 awards
 may vest
 Awards
 held at
 1 Jan
 2011 Number
Monetary 
value  
 Awards
 held at
 31 Dec
 2011
2
     £000  
A A Flockhart ......................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 – 176,519 1,061 178,373 
S T Gulliver .........................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 – 388,044 2,332 392,119 
I J Mackay ...........................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 – 108,487 652 109,626 
The Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) is the long-term incentive plan under the HSBC Share Plan 2011. Vesting of GPSP awards 
is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. Any shares (net of tax) which the Director becomes entitled 
to on the vesting date are subject to a retention requirement until cessation of employment. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of 
Hong Kong, interests in awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 
1 Conditional awards of shares made under the GPSP. At the date of award, 23 June 2011, the market value per share was £6.01. 
2 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 
On behalf of the Board 
J L Thornton 
Chairman of Group Remuneration Committee 27 February 2012 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement 
 
 
275 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities 
set out in their report on pages 276 and 277, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditor in relation to the financial statements. The Directors are 
responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the consolidated financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its 
subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) and holding company financial statements for HSBC Holdings (the ‘parent company’) 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each 
financial year. The Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
endorsed by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.  
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU to 
present fairly the financial position, the performance for that period and for IFRSs purposes the cash flows of the 
Group and the parent company; the Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements that 
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their 
achieving a fair presentation. In addition, in order to meet certain US requirements, HSBC is required to present its 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). 
Currently, there are no differences in application to HSBC between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by 
the IASB. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and  
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU. 
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is not 
appropriate. Since the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in 
business for the foreseeable future, the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
parent company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent 
company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors also have responsibility for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
Corporate Governance statement on pages 2 to 274 that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors have responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts as they 
appear on the company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors, the names of whom are set out in the ‘Report of Directors: Corporate Governance’ section on 
pages 218 to 223 of this Annual Report, confirm to the best of their knowledge: 
• in accordance with rule 4.1.12(3)(a) of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the consolidated financial 
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the 
EU, have been prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• the management report represented by the Report of the Directors has been prepared in accordance with rule 
4.1.12(3)(b) of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, and includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces. 
On behalf of the Board  
D J Flint  
Group Chairman 27 February 2012  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc 
Report 
 
 
276 
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc for the year ended 
31 December 2011 set out on pages 279 to 413. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU and 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.  
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB, on terms that 
have been agreed. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and in respect of the separate opinion in relation to 
IFRSs as issued by IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 275, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (‘APB’) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit opinion 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.   
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As explained in Note 1(a) to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to 
apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.    
 
277 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 243, in relation to going concern;  
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
 
G Bainbridge, Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
London, England 
27 February 2012 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements 
Contents / Consolidated income statement  
 
 
278 
Financial statements 
 
Financial Statements 
Consolidated income statement ............................... 279
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income .. 280
Consolidated balance sheet ..................................... 281
Consolidated statement of cash flows....................... 282
Consolidated statement of changes in equity ........... 283
HSBC Holdings balance sheet ................................. 286
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows................... 287
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity ...... 288
Notes on the Financial Statements 
 1 Basis of preparation ............................................. 291
 2 Summary of significant accounting policies ........ 294
 3 Net income/(expense) from financial  
instruments designated at fair value ............... 313
 4 Net earned insurance premiums .......................... 314
 5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders ........................... 314
 6 Operating profit ................................................... 315
 7 Employee compensation and benefits .................. 316
 8 Auditors’ remuneration ........................................ 325
 9 Share-based payments ......................................... 327
10 Tax   ..................................................................... 330
11 Dividends ............................................................. 334
12 Earnings per share ............................................... 335
13 Segmental analysis ............................................... 336
14 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities  
by measurement basis ...................................... 341
15 Trading assets ...................................................... 345
16 Fair values of financial instruments  
carried at fair value ......................................... 346
17 Fair values of financial instruments  
not carried at fair value ................................... 357
18 Reclassification of financial assets ...................... 359
 
 
  
19 Financial assets designated at fair value ............. 360
20 Derivatives ............................................................ 361
21 Financial investments ........................................... 365
22 Transfers of financial assets not qualifying  
for derecognition .............................................. 368
23 Interests in associates and joint ventures ............. 369
24 Goodwill and intangible assets ............................ 371
25 Property, plant and equipment ............................. 376
26 Investments in subsidiaries ................................... 378
27 Assets held for sale and other assets .................... 379
28 Trading liabilities ................................................. 381
29 Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... 381
30 Debt securities in issue ......................................... 381
31 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale  
and other liabilities .......................................... 383
32 Liabilities under insurance contracts ................... 383
33 Provisions ............................................................. 386
34 Subordinated liabilities ........................................ 387
35 Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities ............ 391
36 Foreign exchange exposures ................................ 392
37 Assets charged as security for liabilities and 
collateral accepted as security for assets ........ 392
38 Non-controlling interests ...................................... 393
39 Called up share capital and other equity 
instruments ....................................................... 394
40 Notes on the statement of cash flows .................... 397
41 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments 
and guarantees ................................................. 399
42 Lease commitments ............................................... 400
43 Special purpose entities ........................................ 401
44 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters .......... 405
45 Related party transactions .................................... 410
46 Events after the balance sheet date ...................... 413
   
 
279 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 
   2011  2010   2009 
 Notes US$m US$m US$m 
Interest income ................................................................................................. 63,005 58,345 62,096
Interest expense ................................................................................................ (22,343) (18,904) (21,366)
Net interest income ........................................................................................... 40,662 39,441 40,730 
Fee income ........................................................................................................ 21,497 21,117 21,403
Fee expense ....................................................................................................... (4,337) (3,762) (3,739)
Net fee income .................................................................................................. 17,160 17,355 17,664 
Trading income excluding net interest income ................................................ 3,283 4,680 6,236
Net interest income on trading activities .......................................................... 3,223 2,530 3,627
Net trading income ........................................................................................... 6,506 7,210 9,863 
Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives .......... 4,161 (258) (6,247)
Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated  
at fair value .................................................................................................. (722) 1,478 2,716
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value .... 3 3,439 1,220 (3,531)
Gains less losses from financial investments ................................................... 907 968 520 
Dividend income ............................................................................................... 149 112 126 
Net earned insurance premiums ....................................................................... 4 12,872 11,146 10,471 
Other operating income .................................................................................... 1,766 2,562 2,788 
Total operating income .................................................................................. 83,461 80,014 78,631 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to  
policyholders ............................................................................................... 5 (11,181) (11,767) (12,450)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges and  
other credit risk provisions ....................................................................... 72,280 68,247 66,181 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions .............................. 6 (12,127) (14,039) (26,488)
Net operating income ..................................................................................... 60,153 54,208 39,693 
Employee compensation and benefits .............................................................. 7 (21,166) (19,836) (18,468)
General and administrative expenses ............................................................... (17,459) (15,156) (13,392)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment ..................... 25 (1,570) (1,713) (1,725)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets ........................................... 24 (1,350) (983) (810)
Total operating expenses ................................................................................ (41,545) (37,688) (34,395)
Operating profit .............................................................................................. 6 18,608 16,520 5,298 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ................................................ 23 3,264 2,517 1,781 
Profit before tax .............................................................................................. 21,872 19,037 7,079 
Tax expense ...................................................................................................... 10 (3,928) (4,846) (385)
Profit for the year ........................................................................................... 17,944 14,191 6,694 
     
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company ............................... 16,797 13,159 5,834 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests ................................................. 1,147 1,032 860 
     
   US$  US$   US$ 
Basic earnings per ordinary share .................................................................... 12  0.92  0.73   0.34 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share ................................................................. 12  0.91  0.72   0.34 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income / Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
 
280 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 
  2011  2010   2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Profit for the year .......................................................................................................... 17,944 14,191  6,694 
    
Other comprehensive income/(expense)    
Available-for-sale investments ..................................................................................... 674 5,835  10,817 
–  fair value gains ..................................................................................................... 1,279 6,368  9,821 
–  fair value gains transferred to income statement on disposal .............................. (820) (1,174) (648)
–  amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of impairment  
losses .................................................................................................................... 583 1,118 2,391 
–  income taxes ......................................................................................................... (368) (477) (747)
Cash flow hedges .......................................................................................................... 187 (271) 772 
–  fair value gains/(losses) ........................................................................................ (581) (178) 481 
–  fair value (gains)/losses transferred to income statement .................................... 788 (164) 808 
–  income taxes ......................................................................................................... (20) 71  (517)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans ........................................................ 1,009 (61) (2,608)
–  before income taxes .............................................................................................. 1,267 (60) (3,586)
–  income taxes ......................................................................................................... (258) (1) 978 
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint  
ventures .................................................................................................................... (710) 107  149 
Exchange differences .................................................................................................... (2,865) (567) 4,975 
Income tax attributable to exchange differences .......................................................... 165 – – 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax .................................................. (1,540) 5,043  14,105 
Total comprehensive income for the year .................................................................... 16,404 19,234  20,799 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:    
–  shareholders of the parent company .................................................................... 15,366 18,087  19,529 
–  non-controlling interests ...................................................................................... 1,038 1,147  1,270 
 16,404 19,234  20,799 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements.   
281 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2011 
   2011   2010 
 Notes US$m US$m 
Assets     
Cash and balances at central banks ................................................................................................ 129,902 57,383 
Items in the course of collection from other banks ........................................................................ 8,208 6,072 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness ................................................................... 20,922 19,057 
Trading assets ................................................................................................................................. 15 330,451 385,052 
Financial assets designated at fair value ........................................................................................ 19 30,856 37,011 
Derivatives ...................................................................................................................................... 20 346,379 260,757 
Loans and advances to banks ......................................................................................................... 180,987 208,271 
Loans and advances to customers .................................................................................................. 940,429 958,366 
Financial investments ..................................................................................................................... 21 400,044 400,755 
Assets held for sale ......................................................................................................................... 27 39,558 1,991 
Other assets ..................................................................................................................................... 27 48,699 41,260 
Current tax assets ............................................................................................................................ 1,061 1,096 
Prepayments and accrued income .................................................................................................. 10,059 11,966 
Interests in associates and joint ventures ....................................................................................... 23 20,399 17,198 
Goodwill and intangible assets ....................................................................................................... 24 29,034 29,922 
Property, plant and equipment ........................................................................................................ 25 10,865 11,521 
Deferred tax assets .......................................................................................................................... 10 7,726 7,011 
Total assets ..................................................................................................................................... 2,555,579 2,454,689 
    
Liabilities and equity     
Liabilities    
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ...................................................................................... 20,922 19,057 
Deposits by banks ........................................................................................................................... 112,822 110,584 
Customer accounts .......................................................................................................................... 1,253,925 1,227,725 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks ........................................................................ 8,745 6,663 
Trading liabilities ............................................................................................................................ 28 265,192 300,703 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................................................................................... 29 85,724 88,133 
Derivatives ...................................................................................................................................... 20 345,380 258,665 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................................................................... 30 131,013 145,401 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale .................................................................................... 31 22,200 86 
Other liabilities ............................................................................................................................... 31 27,967 27,964 
Current tax liabilities ...................................................................................................................... 2,117 1,804 
Liabilities under insurance contracts .............................................................................................. 32 61,259 58,609 
Accruals and deferred income ........................................................................................................ 13,106 13,906 
Provisions ....................................................................................................................................... 33 3,324 2,138 
Deferred tax liabilities .................................................................................................................... 10 1,518 1,093 
Retirement benefit liabilities .......................................................................................................... 7 3,666 3,856 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................................................................................... 34 30,606 33,387 
Total liabilities ................................................................................................................................ 2,389,486 2,299,774 
    
Equity    
Called up share capital .................................................................................................................... 39 8,934 8,843 
Share premium account .................................................................................................................. 8,457 8,454 
Other equity instruments ................................................................................................................ 5,851 5,851 
Other reserves ................................................................................................................................. 23,615 25,414 
Retained earnings
5
 .......................................................................................................................... 111,868 99,105 
Total shareholders’ equity .............................................................................................................. 158,725 147,667 
Non-controlling interests ................................................................................................................ 38 7,368 7,248 
Total equity ..................................................................................................................................... 166,093 154,915 
Total equity and liabilities .............................................................................................................. 2,555,579 2,454,689 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of cash flows / Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
 
 
282 
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2011 
   2011  2010   2009 
 Notes US$m US$m US$m 
Cash flows from operating activities      
Profit before tax ................................................................................................  21,872 19,037  7,079 
Adjustments for:     
– net gain from investing activities .............................................................. (1,196) (1,698) (1,910)
– share of profits in associates and joint ventures ....................................... (3,264) (2,517) (1,781)
– other non-cash items included in profit before tax ................................... 40  19,878 18,887 31,384 
– change in operating assets ......................................................................... 40  (7,412) (13,267) (20,803)
– change in operating liabilities ................................................................... 40  44,012 42,272 14,645 
– elimination of exchange differences
1 
........................................................  10,840 (1,799) (19,024)
– dividends received from associates ........................................................... 304 441  414 
– contributions paid to defined benefit plans ............................................... (1,177) (3,321) (974)
– tax paid ...................................................................................................... (4,095) (2,293) (2,132)
Net cash generated from operating activities ...................................................  79,762 55,742 6,898 
Cash flows from investing activities     
Purchase of financial investments .................................................................... (319,008) (341,202) (304,629)
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments ........................  311,702 321,846  241,341 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment ...................................................... (1,505) (2,533) (2,000)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment ................................ 300 4,373  4,701 
Proceeds from the sale of loan portfolios .........................................................  –  4,243  4,852 
Net purchase of intangible assets ..................................................................... (1,571) (1,179) (956)
Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries ...........................................  –  (86) (677)
Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries ................................................. 216 466 45 
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of associates .........  (90) (1,589) (62)
Net cash outflow from the consolidation of funds ...........................................  –  (19,566) – 
Proceeds from disposal of associates and joint ventures ................................. 25 254  308 
Net cash used in investing activities ................................................................ (9,931) (34,973) (57,077)
Cash flows from financing activities      
Issue of ordinary share capital .......................................................................... 96 180  18,398 
– rights issue .................................................................................................  – – 18,326 
– other ........................................................................................................... 96 180  72 
Issue of other equity instruments .....................................................................  –  3,718 – 
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and 
investment purposes .....................................................................................  (225) 163  (176)
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares to meet share awards and share  
option awards ...............................................................................................  (136) 11  (51)
On exercise of share options ............................................................................  –  2  12 
Subordinated loan capital issued ...................................................................... 7 4,481  2,959 
Subordinated loan capital repaid ...................................................................... (3,777) (2,475) (4,637)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from change in stake in subsidiaries .....................  104 (229) – 
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company ................................... (5,014) (3,441) (4,264)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests .....................................................  (568) (595) (702)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments ....................................  (573) (413) (269)
Net cash generated from financing activities ................................................... (10,086) 1,402  11,270 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents .................................  59,745 22,171  (38,909)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January ...........................................................  274,076 250,766  278,872 
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents ........................ (8,372) 1,139  10,803 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December ..................................................... 40  325,449 274,076  250,766 
For footnote, see page 290.  
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements.   
 
 
283 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 
2011 
    Other reserves    
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share
  premium
2
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
 
3,4,5
 
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow 
  hedging
  reserve
6
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  reserve
3,7
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077) (285) 2,468 27,308  147,667 7,248 154,915  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 16,797 – – – – 16,797 1,147 17,944  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – 368 716  190 (2,705) – (1,431) (109) (1,540) 
Available-for-sale investments ............................................ – – – – 716   – – – 716 (42) 674  
Cash flow hedges ................................................................. – – – – –  190 – – 190 (3) 187  
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans ................ – – – 1,078 –  – – – 1,078 (69) 1,009  
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and  
joint ventures .................................................................... – – – (710) –  – – – (710) – (710) 
Exchange differences ........................................................... – – – – –  (2,705) – (2,705) 5 (2,700) 
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 17,165 716  190 (2,705) – 15,366 1,038 16,404  
Shares issued under employee share plans .............................. 6 90 – – – – – – 96 – 96  
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
2
 ................................................................................. 85 (87) – 2,232 – – – – 2,230 – 2,230  
Dividends to shareholders
8 
....................................................... – – – (7,501) – – – – (7,501) (815) (8,316) 
Tax credit on distributions......................................................... – – – 128 – – – – 128  128  
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – (361) – – – – (361) – (361) 
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 1,154 – – – – 1,154 – 1,154  
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – 21 – – – – 21 – 21  
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – (75) – – – – (75) 28 (47) 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries .................................. – – – – – – – – – (252) (252) 
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – – – – – – – 121 121  
At 31 December ........................................................................ 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361) (95) (237) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093  
   
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
 
284
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 (continued) 
2010 
    Other reserves    
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share 
  premium
2
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
 
3,4,5
 
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow 
  hedging 
  reserve
6
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  reserve
3,7
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling 
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 8,705 8,413 2,133 88,737 (9,965) (26) 2,994 27,308  128,299 7,362 135,661  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 13,159 – – – – 13,159 1,032 14,191  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – 49 5,671  (266) (526) – 4,928 115 5,043  
Available-for-sale investments ................................................. – – – – 5,671   – – – 5,671 164 5,835  
Cash flow hedges ...................................................................... – – – – –  (266) – – (266) (5) (271) 
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans ................................. – – – (58) –  – – – (58) (3) (61) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates  
and joint ventures ................................................................. – – – 107 –  – – – 107 – 107  
Exchange differences ............................................................... – – – – –  – (526) – (526) (41) (567) 
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 13,208 5,671  (266) (526) – 18,087 1,147 19,234  
Shares issued under employee share plans .............................. 12 168 – – – – – – 180 – 180  
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
2
 ................................................................................. 126 (127) – 2,524 – – – – 2,523 – 2,523  
Capital securities issued
9
 .......................................................... – – 3,718 – – – – – 3,718 – 3,718  
Dividends to shareholders
8 
....................................................... – – – (6,350) – – – – (6,350) (725) (7,075) 
Tax credit on distributions ........................................................ – – – 122 – – – – 122 – 122  
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – 174 – – – – 174 – 174  
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 812 – – – – 812 – 812  
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – (14) – – – – (14) – (14) 
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – (58) 217  7 – – 166 3 169 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries .................................. – – – – – – – – – (436) (436) 
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – (50) – – – – (50) (103) (153) 
At 31 December ........................................................................ 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077) (285) 2,468 27,308  147,667 7,248 154,915  
   
 
285
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
 
2009 
    Other reserves    
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share 
  premium
2
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
 
3,4,5
 
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow 
  hedging 
  reserve
6
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  reserve
3,7
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non- 
controlling 
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 6,053 8,463 2,133 82,684 (20,550) (806) (1,843) 17,457  93,591 6,638 100,229  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 5,834 – – – – 5,834 860 6,694  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – (2,536) 10,603  791 4,837 – 13,695 410 14,105  
Available-for-sale investments ................................................. – – – – 10,603   – – – 10,603 214 10,817  
Cash flow hedges ...................................................................... – – – – –  791 – – 791 (19) 772  
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans .................... – – – (2,685) –  – – – (2,685) 77 (2,608) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and  
joint ventures ........................................................................ – – – 149 –  – – – 149 – 149  
Exchange differences ............................................................... – – – – –  – 4,837 – 4,837 138 4,975  
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 3,298 10,603  791 4,837 – 19,529 1,270 20,799  
Shares issued under employee share plans .............................. 4 69 – – – – – – 73 – 73  
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
2
 ................................................................................. 118 (119) – 1,670 – – – – 1,669 – 1,669  
Shares issued in respect of rights issue
7
 ................................... 2,530 – – – – – – 15,796  18,326 – 18,326  
Dividends to shareholders
8 
....................................................... – – – (5,639) – – – – (5,639) (832) (6,471) 
Tax credit on distributions ........................................................ – – – 50 – – – – 50 – 50 
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – (227) – – – – (227) – (227) 
Exercise and lapse of share options and vesting of share  
awards ................................................................................... – – – 38 – – – – 38 – 38  
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 683 – – – – 683 – 683  
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – 9 – – – – 9 – 9  
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – 226 (18) (11) – – 197 77 274  
Transfers
7
 .................................................................................. – – – 5,945 – – – (5,945) – – – 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries................................... – – – – – – – – – (38) (38) 
Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – – – – – – – 247 247 
At 31 December ........................................................................ 8,705 8,413 2,133 88,737 (9,965) (26) 2,994 27,308 128,299 7,362 135,661 
For footnotes, see page 290. 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 
form an integral part of these financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet / HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 
 
 
286 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2011 
   2011   2010 
 Notes US$m US$m 
Assets   
Cash at bank and in hand:    
– balances with HSBC undertakings ......................................................................................... 316 459 
Derivatives ...................................................................................................................................... 20 3,568 2,327 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings .................................................................................. 28,048 21,238 
Financial investments ..................................................................................................................... 1,078 2,025 
Current tax assets ............................................................................................................................ 104 224 
Prepayments and accrued income .................................................................................................. 32 108 
Investments in subsidiaries ............................................................................................................. 26 90,621 92,899 
Property, plant and equipment ........................................................................................................ 4 4 
Deferred tax assets .......................................................................................................................... 10 91 57 
Total assets ..................................................................................................................................... 123,862 119,341 
    
Liabilities and equity    
Liabilities    
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .......................................................................................... 2,479 2,932 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................................................................................... 29 21,151 16,288 
Derivatives ...................................................................................................................................... 20 1,067 827 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................................................................... 30 2,613 2,668 
Other liabilities ............................................................................................................................... 31 911 1,232 
Accruals and deferred income ........................................................................................................ 1,008 750 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................................................................................... 34 12,450 13,313 
Total liabilities ................................................................................................................................ 41,679 38,010 
    
Equity     
Called up share capital .................................................................................................................... 39 8,934 8,843 
Share premium account .................................................................................................................. 8,457 8,454 
Other equity instruments ................................................................................................................ 5,828 5,828 
Merger reserve and other reserves ................................................................................................. 35,127 35,127 
Other reserves ................................................................................................................................. 1,722 1,639 
Retained earnings ........................................................................................................................... 22,115 21,440 
Total equity ..................................................................................................................................... 82,183 81,331 
Total equity and liabilities .............................................................................................................. 123,862 119,341 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman   
287 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2011 
   2011   2010 
 Notes US$m US$m 
Cash flows from operating activities     
Profit/(loss) before tax .................................................................................................................... 5,758 5,237 
Adjustments for:    
– non-cash items included in profit before tax .......................................................................... 40 77 185 
– change in operating assets ....................................................................................................... 40 (5,489) 3,091 
– change in operating liabilities ................................................................................................. 40 (414) (1,754)
– net loss from investing activities ............................................................................................. 570 – 
– tax (paid)/received ................................................................................................................... (57) 853 
Net cash generated from operating activities ................................................................................. 445 7,612 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Proceeds from sale of financial investments .................................................................................. 941 – 
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries .................................... (626) (6,649)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities ................................................................................... 315 (6,649)
Cash flows from financing activities     
Issue of ordinary share capital ........................................................................................................ 96 180 
Issue of other equity instruments ................................................................................................... –  3,695 
On exercise of share options .......................................................................................................... – 2 
Subordinated loan capital issued .................................................................................................... – 1,349 
Subordinated loan capital repaid .................................................................................................... (750) (2,100)
Debt securities issued ..................................................................................................................... 5,338 – 
Dividends paid ................................................................................................................................ (5,014) (3,441)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments .................................................................. (573) (413)
Net cash used in financing activities .............................................................................................. (903) (728)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ............................................................... (143) 235 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January ......................................................................................... 459 224 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December ................................................................................... 40 316 459 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity  
 
 
288 
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 
2011 
    Other reserves   
Called up
 share
 capital 
 Share
 premium
2
 Other
 equity
 instru- 
 ments 
 Retained
 earnings
 
5,10
 
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Other 
 paid-in 
 capital  
 Merger 
and other 
  reserves
7
 
  Total
 share-
 holders’
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January ........................................... 8,843 8,454 5,828 21,440 56 1,583 35,127 81,331 
Profit for the year ................................... – – – 5,471 – – – 5,471 
Other comprehensive income  
(net of tax) ......................................... – – – – (44) – – (44)
Available-for-sale investments .............. – – – – (61) – –  (61)
Income tax ............................................. – – – – 17 – –  17
Total comprehensive income for the  
year .................................................... – – – 5,471 (44) – – 5,427 
Shares issued under employee share 
plans ................................................... 6 90 – – – – – 96 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and 
amounts arising thereon
2
 ................... 85 (87) – 2,232 – – – 2,230 
Dividends to shareholders
8 
....................... – – – (7,501) – – – (7,501)
Tax credit on distributions ..................... – – – 128 – – – 128 
Own shares adjustment .......................... – – – (265) – – – (265)
Exercise and lapse of share options  
and vesting of share awards .............. – – – (127) – 127 – – 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements ..................................... – – – 57 – – – 57 
Equity investments granted to  
employees of subsidiaries under 
employee share plans ........................ – – – 674 – – – 674 
Other movements ................................... – – – 6 – – – 6 
At 31 December ..................................... 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 
   
289 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
2010 
    Other reserves   
 Called up
 share
 capital 
 Share 
 premium
2
 Other 
 equity
 instru- 
  ments
9
 Retained 
  earnings 
 
5,10
 
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Other 
 paid-in 
 capital  
 Merger 
 and other 
  Reserves
7
 
  Total
 share-
 holders’
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January ........................................... 8,705 8,413 2,133 19,781 253 1,464  35,127  75,876 
Profit for the year ................................... – – – 5,658 – – – 5,658 
Other comprehensive income  
(net of tax) ......................................... – – – – (197) – – (197)
Available-for-sale investments .............. – – – – (275) – –  (275)
Income tax ............................................. – – – – 78 – –  78 
Total comprehensive income for the  
year .................................................... – – – 5,658 (197) – – 5,461 
Shares issued under employee share 
plans ................................................... 12 168 – – – – – 180 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and 
amounts arising thereon
2
 ................... 126 (127) – 2,524 – – – 2,523 
Capital securities issued
9
 ....................... – – 3,695 – – – – 3,695 
Dividends to shareholders
8 
....................... – – – (6,350) – – – (6,350)
Tax credit on distributions ........................ – – – 91 – – – 91 
Own shares adjustment .......................... – – – (260) – – – (260)
Exercise and lapse of share options and 
vesting of share awards ..................... – – – (119) – 119  – – 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements ..................................... – – – 28 – – – 28 
Equity investments granted to  
employees of subsidiaries under 
employee share plans ........................ – – – 76 – – – 76 
Other movements ................................... – – – 11 – – – 11 
At 31 December ..................................... 8,843 8,454 5,828 21,440 56 1,583 35,127 81,331 
Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2011 were US$0.39 (2010: US$0.34; 2009: US$0.34). 
For footnotes, see page 290. 
The accompanying notes on pages 291 to 413, ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 98 
to 210 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 211 to 217 form an integral part of these financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Footnotes / Notes on the Financial Statements > 1 – Basis of preparation 
 
 
290 
Footnotes to Financial Statements 
  1 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line 
basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 
  2 Share premium includes the deduction of US$2m in respect of issuance costs incurred during the year (2010: US$1m; 2009: US$1m). 
  3 Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138m has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 
1 January 1998, including US$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of 
US$1,669m has been charged against retained earnings. 
  4 Retained earnings include 98,498,019 (US$1,320m) of own shares held within HSBC’s insurance business, retirement funds for the 
benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee 
share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets (2010: 123,331,979 (US$1,799m); 2009: 
179,964,968 (US$2,572m)). 
  5 The movement in reserves relating to equity-settled share-based payment arrangements is recognised in ‘Retained earnings’ in the 
‘Consolidated statement of change in equity’ and ‘HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity’, with effect from 1 January 2011. 
Previously, it was disclosed separately in a ‘Share-based payment reserve’ within ‘Other reserves’. Comparative data have been 
restated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Other reserves’ and increased ‘Retained earnings’ by US$2,274m at 31 December 2011 
(2010: US$1,755m; 2009: US$1,925m). There was no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share following this change. 
  6 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$104m gain (2010: US$605m gain; 2009: 
US$502m loss) taken to ‘Net interest income’ and US$893m loss (2010: US$441m loss; 2009: US$306m loss) taken to ‘Net trading 
income’. 
  7 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Act’) was taken in respect of the acquisition of 
HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their 
nominal value only. In HSBC’s consolidated financial statements the fair value differences of US$8,290m in respect of HSBC France 
and US$12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the 
acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), 
following a number of intra-group reorganisations. At 31 December 2011, nil (2010: nil; 2009: US$5,945m) was transferred from this 
reserve to retained earnings as a result of impairment in HSBC Holdings’ investment in HOHU. During 2009, pursuant to Section 131 
of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and US$15,796m was recognised in 
the merger reserve. The merger reserve includes the deduction of US$614m in respect of costs relating to the rights issue, of which 
US$149m was subsequently transferred to the income statement. Of this US$149m, US$121m was a loss arising from accounting for 
the agreement with the underwriters as a contingent forward contract. The merger reserve excludes the loss of US$344m on a forward 
foreign exchange contract associated with hedging the proceeds of the rights issue.  
  8 Including distributions paid on preference shares and capital securities classified as equity. 
  9 During June 2010, HSBC Holdings issued US$3,800m of Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities, Series 2 (‘capital securities’), on 
which there were US$82m of external issuance costs and US$23m of intra-group issuance costs which are classified as equity under 
IFRSs. The capital securities are exchangeable at HSBC Holdings’ option into non-cumulative US dollar preference shares on any 
coupon payment date. Interest on the capital securities is paid quarterly and may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. The 
capital securities may only be redeemed at the option of HSBC Holdings. 
10 Retained earnings include 33,557,764 (US$563m) of own shares held to fund employee share plans (2010: 39,814,107 (US$562m)). 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
 
291 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
1 Basis of preparation  
(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have 
been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ 
from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the 
EU. At 31 December 2011, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2011 
affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs 
endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by 
the IASB. 
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations 
issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) and its predecessor body. 
During 2011, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an 
insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of 
HSBC Holdings. 
(b) Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of 
their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial 
statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The Notes on the 
Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures 
necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements. 
(c) Presentation of information 
Disclosures under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ (‘IFRS 4’) and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
(‘IFRS 7’) concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments 
have been included in the audited sections of the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 98 to 210. HSBC has 
adopted a revised disclosure convention for the presentation of impaired loans to provide more relevant 
information on the nature of credit risk in portfolios which have significant levels of forbearance activity, see 
page 133. 
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (‘IAS 1’) have been included in the 
audited sections of ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ on pages 211 to 217. 
Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited 
section of ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 98 to 210. 
In accordance with HSBC’s policy to provide meaningful disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders 
understand the Group’s performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the 
Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by 
accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules. In particular, HSBC has adopted 
the British Bankers’ Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure (‘the BBA Code’). The BBA Code 
aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles 
together with supporting guidance. In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice 
recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the 
applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.  
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC 
Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its 
individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. 
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional 
currency. HSBC Holdings’ functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to 
it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its 
subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 –  Basis of preparation 
 
 
292 
HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US 
dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.  
(d) Use of estimates and assumptions  
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions. 
The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates; 
actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared. Management 
believes that HSBC’s critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate 
to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, the 
impairment of available-for-sale financial assets, deferred tax assets and provisions for liabilities. See ‘Critical 
accounting policies’ on pages 38 to 42, which form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty, are set out in the Notes on the Financial Statements. 
(e) Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its 
subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC 
Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations. 
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control. The acquisition method of accounting is 
used when subsidiaries are acquired by HSBC. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange. Acquisition-related costs are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. The acquired 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of 
non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the 
acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement. In the event that the 
amount of net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-
controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, the difference is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are treated as 
transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. 
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
In the context of Special Purpose Entities (‘SPE’s), the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in 
which, in substance, HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an SPE: 
– the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so 
that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPE’s operation; 
– HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, 
by setting up an ‘autopilot’ mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers; 
– HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks 
incidental to the activities of the SPE; or 
– HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to 
obtain benefits from its activities. 
HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship 
between HSBC and an SPE. 
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.   
293 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves 
of joint ventures and associates. These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the 
exception of BoCom, Ping An and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements made 
up for the twelve months to 30 September. These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet 
the requirements of the Group’s reporting timetable. HSBC has taken into account the effect of significant 
transactions or events that occur between the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material 
effect on its results. 
(f) Future accounting developments 
At 31 December 2011, a number of standards and amendments to standards had been issued by the IASB, which 
are not effective for HSBC’s consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC 
Holdings as at 31 December 2011. These new requirements have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU. In 
addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, the IASB is continuing to work on projects 
on insurance, revenue recognition and lease accounting, which together with the standards described below, will 
represent widespread and significant changes to accounting requirements from 2013. 
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU 
Standards applicable in 2013 
In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ (‘IFRS 10’), IFRS 11 ‘Joint 
Arrangements’ (‘IFRS 11’) and IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ (‘IFRS 12’). The standards 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRSs 10 
and 11 are required to be applied retrospectively. 
Under IFRS 10, there will be one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concept 
of power, variability of returns and their linkage. This will replace the current approach which emphasises legal 
control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the entity. IFRS 11 places more focus on 
the investors’ rights and obligations than on structure of the arrangement, and introduces the concept of a joint 
operation. IFRS 12 includes the disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates and 
introduces new requirements for unconsolidated structured entities. 
Based on our initial assessment, we do not expect IFRS 11 to have a material effect on HSBC’s financial 
statements. HSBC is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 10 and it is not practicable to quantify the effect as 
at the date of the publication of these financial statements. 
In May 2011, the IASB also issued IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ (‘IFRS 13’). This standard is effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 13 is required to 
be applied prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied. The disclosure 
requirements of IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial 
application.  
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements required or permitted by IFRSs. 
The standard clarifies the definition of fair value as an exit price, which is defined as a price at which an orderly 
transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market participants at the 
measurement date under current market conditions, and enhances disclosures about fair value measurement. 
HSBC is currently assessing IFRS 13 and it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the 
publication of these financial statements, which will depend on final interpretations of the standard, market 
conditions and HSBC’s holdings of financial instruments at 1 January 2013. However, based on the analysis 
performed to date, the most significant potential effect from applying IFRS 13 is considered to be on the 
methodologies for the calculation of credit valuation adjustments in valuing certain financial instruments. See 
Note 16 for further information on credit valuation adjustment methodologies. 
In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (‘IAS 19 revised’). The revised 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. 
IAS 19 revised is required to be applied retrospectively. 
The most significant amendment for HSBC is the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets 
by a finance cost component comprising the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. This finance  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation / 2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
294 
cost component is determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation 
to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the return 
included in the finance cost component in the income statement will be presented in other comprehensive 
income. The effect of this change is to increase the pension expense by the difference between the current 
expected return on plan assets and the return calculated by applying the relevant discount rate.  
Based on our estimate of the impact of this particular amendment on the 2011 consolidated financial statements, 
the change would decrease pre-tax profit, with no effect on the pension liability. The effect on total operating 
expenses and pre-tax profit is not expected to be material. The effect at the date of adoption will depend on 
market interest rates, rates of return and the actual mix of scheme assets at that time. 
In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and 
Financial Liabilities’ which requires the disclosures about the effect or potential effects of offsetting financial 
assets and financial liabilities and related arrangements on an entity’s financial position. The amendments are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods within those annual 
periods. The amendments are required to be applied retrospectively. 
Standards applicable in 2014  
In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities’ which clarified the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and addressed inconsistencies 
in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The 
amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with early adoption permitted 
and are required to be applied retrospectively. 
HSBC is currently assessing the impact of these clarifications but it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at 
the date of the publication of these financial statements. 
Standards applicable in 2015 
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (‘IFRS 9’) which introduced new 
requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. In October 2010, the IASB issued 
additions to IFRS 9 relating to financial liabilities. Together, these changes represent the first phase in the 
IASB’s planned replacement of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ (‘IAS 39’) with 
a less complex and improved standard for financial instruments. 
Following the IASB’s decision in December 2011 to defer the effective date, the standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 9 is required to be applied 
retrospectively but prior periods need not be restated. 
The second and third phases in the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 will address the impairment of financial 
assets measured at amortised cost and hedge accounting.  
The IASB did not finalise the replacement of IAS 39 by its stated target of June 2011, and the IASB and the US 
Financial Accounting Standards Board have agreed to extend the timetable beyond this date to permit further 
work and consultation with stakeholders, including reopening IFRS 9 to address practice and other issues. 
Therefore, HSBC remains unable to provide a date by which it plans to apply IFRS 9 and it remains 
impracticable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 as at the date of the publication of these financial statements. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
(a) Interest income and expense 
Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or 
designated at fair value (except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with 
those debt securities) are recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using 
the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a 
financial asset or a financial liability (or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the 
interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.   
295 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through 
the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of 
the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows 
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit losses. The calculation 
includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial 
instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.  
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows 
for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. 
(b) Non-interest income 
Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers. Fee income is 
accounted for as follows:  
− income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed (for 
example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third-party, 
such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities); 
− income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided (for 
example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees); and  
− income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as 
an adjustment to the effective interest rate (for example, certain loan commitment fees) and recorded in 
‘Interest income’. 
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and 
financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends. 
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes 
in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. Interest 
income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included, except for 
interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC, and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt 
securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’ (Note 2(a)). 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for 
listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity 
securities. 
(c) Operating segments 
Due to the nature of the Group, HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker regularly reviews operating activity on 
a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. HSBC considers that geographical 
operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best 
evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic 
environments in which it operates. This reflects the importance of geographic factors on business strategy and 
performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional management in executing 
strategy. As a result, HSBC’s operating segments are considered to be geographical regions. 
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policies. Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted 
on arm’s length terms and conditions. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges 
made. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy 
as a cost of being headquartered in the UK. 
(d) Valuation of financial instruments 
All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. In the normal course of business, the fair value of 
a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration 
given or received). In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current 
market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique 
whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
296 
and currency rates. When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the 
financial instrument, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value. When unobservable 
market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in 
fair value from the transaction price as indicated by the valuation model, is not recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Instead, it is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, when the 
inputs become observable, the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting 
transaction. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value are measured in 
accordance with HSBC’s valuation methodologies, which are described in Notes 16 and 17. 
(e) Reclassification of financial assets 
Non-derivative financial assets (other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial 
recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in the following 
circumstances:  
− financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition (if the 
financial asset had not been required to be classified as held for trading) may be reclassified out of the fair 
value through profit or loss category if there is the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the 
foreseeable future or until maturity; and  
− financial assets (except financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial 
recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into another 
category in rare circumstances. 
When a financial asset is reclassified as described in the above circumstances, the financial asset is reclassified at 
its fair value on the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss already recognised in the income statement is not 
reversed. The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised 
cost, as applicable.  
(f) Loans and advances to banks and customers 
Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not 
classified either as held for trading or designated at fair value. Loans and advances are recognised when cash is 
advanced to a borrower. They are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans are 
sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. They are reclassified as 
held for sale when their carrying amounts are to be recovered principally through sale, they are available for sale 
in their present condition and their sale is highly probable (Note 2ad). They are initially recorded at fair value 
plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less any reduction for impairment or uncollectibility. Where exposures are hedged by 
derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so 
hedged includes a fair value adjustment relating only to the hedged risk. 
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the 
drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC. Where the loan 
arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as 
a derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss. On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for 
trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss. Where it is not HSBC’s intention to trade but hold the 
loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss. This 
may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower 
than the cost of funding. On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. For certain transactions, such as 
leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced is not necessarily the best evidence of the 
fair value of the loan. For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced (for 
example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest), the write-down 
is charged to the income statement. The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the 
recognition of interest income using the effective interest method, unless the loan becomes impaired. The write-
down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income.    
297 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Financial assets which have been reclassified into the loans and receivables category are initially recorded at the 
fair value at the date of reclassification and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest rate determined at the date of reclassification. 
(g) Impairment of loans and advances 
Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or 
portfolio of loans has occurred. Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans 
assessed collectively. Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement. The carrying amount 
of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts. Losses 
which may arise from future events are not recognised. 
Individually assessed loans and advances 
The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing 
impairment include: 
–  the size of the loan; 
– the number of loans in the portfolio; and 
– the importance of the individual loan relationship, and how this is managed. 
Loans that meet the above criteria will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults 
and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective assessment methodology. 
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers and are for 
larger amounts, which are managed on an individual relationship basis. Retail lending portfolios are generally 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios generally consist of large pools of homogeneous 
loans. 
For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance 
sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. The criteria used by HSBC to 
determine that there is such objective evidence include:  
– known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower; 
– contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days;  
– the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation; 
– a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial 
difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is 
not insignificant; and  
–   there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to 
repay is considered doubtful. 
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the 
following factors: 
– HSBC’s aggregate exposure to the customer; 
– the viability of the customer’s business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial 
difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations; 
– the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries; 
– the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy; 
– the extent of other creditors’ commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood 
of other creditors continuing to support the company; 
– the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to 
which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident;  
– the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and likelihood of successful repossession;  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
298 
– the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding;  
– the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in 
local currency; and 
– when available, the secondary market price of the debt. 
The realisable value of security is determined based on the current market value when the impairment 
assessment is performed. The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices; however, 
adjustments are made to reflect local conditions, such as forced sale discounts. 
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective 
interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. The impairment 
allowances on individually significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when 
circumstances require. This normally encompasses re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral held and 
the timing and amount of actual and anticipated receipts. Individually assessed impairment allowances are only 
released when there is reasonable and objective evidence of a reduction in the established loss estimate. 
Collectively assessed loans and advances 
Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: 
– to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual 
assessment; and 
– for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant. 
Incurred but not yet identified impairment 
Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an 
individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating 
an estimated collective impairment. These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of 
business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors. This reflects impairment 
losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not 
able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. These losses will only be 
individually identified in the future. As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on 
individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis 
for impairment. 
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: 
– historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics (for example, by industry sector, 
loan grade or product); 
– the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the 
establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan; and 
– management’s experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that 
the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested 
by historical experience. 
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified 
portfolio. 
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances 
Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of 
loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable. 
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at 
which point they are removed from the group. Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a 
collective basis: 
− When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology. This 
methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to   
299 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the 
balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably 
estimated. Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due 
and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the 
various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable. In addition to the delinquency groupings, 
loans are segmented according to their credit characteristics as described above. Current economic 
conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent 
loss. The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, 
discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio. In 
certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account 
management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics. 
− When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll 
rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience. 
In normal circumstances, historical experience provides the most objective and relevant information from which 
to assess inherent loss within each portfolio, though sometimes it provides less relevant information about the 
inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, when there have been changes in 
economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions which result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors 
being not fully reflected in the statistical models. In these circumstances, the risk factors are taken into account 
by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience. 
These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment 
rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features (such as the ability of borrowers to 
repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges), economic 
conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account 
management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, changes in laws and regulations and other factors 
which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters. These risk factors, 
where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by 
adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience. 
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual 
outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. 
Write-off of loans and advances 
Loans (and the related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when 
there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds 
from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been 
determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier. 
Reversals of impairment 
If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively 
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan 
impairment allowance account accordingly. The write-back is recognised in the income statement. 
Reclassified loans and advances 
Where financial assets have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category to the loans and 
receivables category, the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification is used to calculate any 
impairment losses.  
Following reclassification, where there is a subsequent increase in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result 
of increased recoverability of those cash receipts, the effect of that increase is recognised as an adjustment to the 
effective interest rate from the date of change in the estimate rather than as an adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the asset at the date of change in the estimate.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
300 
Assets acquired in exchange for loans 
Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held 
for sale and reported in ‘Other assets’ if the carrying amounts of the assets are recovered principally through 
sale, the assets are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. The asset 
acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan (net of 
impairment allowance) at the date of exchange. No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale. Any 
subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, 
in ‘Other operating income’. Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does 
not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in ‘Other operating income’, together with any realised 
gains or losses on disposal. 
Renegotiated loans 
Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered 
past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments 
required have been received. Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been 
renegotiated are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment 
assessment, to reflect their risk profile. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have 
been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired. The carrying 
amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or 
derecognition. Interest is recorded on renegotiated loans taking into account the new contractual terms following 
renegotiation. 
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on 
substantially different terms, or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified, such that the renegotiated 
loan is substantially a different financial instrument. 
(h) Trading assets and trading liabilities 
Treasury bills, debt securities, equity securities, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in 
securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of 
selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that 
are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. These 
financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual 
arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell the financial instruments, and are normally derecognised 
when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs 
taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes 
therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’.  
(i) Financial instruments designated at fair value  
Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of 
the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management. HSBC may designate financial instruments at 
fair value when the designation: 
– eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise 
from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different 
bases. Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are:  
 Long-term debt issues. The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been 
matched with the interest on ‘receive fixed/pay variable’ interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest 
rate risk management strategy. An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were 
accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in 
the fair value recognised in the income statement. By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the 
movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement.  
 Financial assets and financial liabilities under investment contracts. Liabilities to customers under 
linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes 
recognised in the income statement. If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer 
liabilities they would be classified as available for sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded   
301 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
in other comprehensive income. These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and 
management information is also prepared on this basis. Designation at fair value of the financial assets 
and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income 
statement and presented in the same line.  
– applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their 
performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or 
investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to 
management on that basis. Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under 
insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated. HSBC has documented risk 
management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into 
consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks. Reports are 
provided to management on the fair value of the assets. Fair value measurement is also consistent with the 
regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations. 
– relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the 
cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held. 
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable. Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are 
recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which 
is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). 
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the 
fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in 
‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’.  
(j) Financial investments 
Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those 
designated at fair value, are classified as available for sale or held to maturity. Financial investments are 
recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase 
securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their 
obligations. 
(i) Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction 
costs. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in ‘Available-for-sale investments – fair value gains/(losses)’ until the financial 
assets are either sold or become impaired. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative 
gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement 
as ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’.  
Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated 
over the asset’s expected life. Premiums and/or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment 
securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates. Dividends are recognised in the 
income statement when the right to receive payment has been established. 
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment 
in the value of a financial asset. Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence 
of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset that can be reliably estimated. 
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial asset’s acquisition 
cost (net of any principal repayments and amortisation) and the current fair value, less any previous 
impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and 
recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within ‘Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions’ in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity 
securities are recognised within ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’ in the income statement. 
The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
302 
– Available-for-sale debt securities. When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for objective 
evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including 
observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a 
shortfall in recovery of future cash flows. These events may include a significant financial difficulty of 
the issuer, a breach of contract such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, or the 
disappearance of an active market for the debt security because of financial difficulties relating to the 
issuer. 
These types of specific event and other factors such as information about the issuers’ liquidity, business 
and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and 
local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered 
individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment of a debt 
security. 
In addition, when assessing available-for-sale asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) for objective evidence 
of impairment, HSBC considers the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of 
market price declines. Changes in credit ratings are considered but a downgrade of a security’s credit 
rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment. The primary indicators of potential impairment are 
considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security. 
ABS impairment methodologies are described in more detail in ‘Securitisation exposures and other 
structured products’ on page 149. 
– Available-for-sale equity securities. Objective evidence of impairment for available-for sale equity 
securities may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include 
information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides 
evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered.  
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is also objective evidence 
of impairment. In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the 
original cost of the asset at initial recognition. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is 
evaluated against the period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial 
recognition. 
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent 
accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the 
available-for-sale financial asset concerned: 
– for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is 
recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result 
of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. Where there is no further 
objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in 
other comprehensive income. If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and 
the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in 
the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. If there is no 
longer objective evidence that the debt security is impaired, the impairment loss is also reversed through 
the income statement;  
– for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument 
are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses 
recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement. Subsequent decreases 
in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the 
extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost 
of the equity security.  
(ii) Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and 
fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold to maturity. Held-to-maturity investments 
are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.   
303 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
(k) Sale and repurchase agreements (including stock lending and borrowing) 
When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they 
remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities 
purchased under commitments to sell (‘reverse repos’) are not recognised on the balance sheet and the 
consideration paid is recorded in ‘Loans and advances to banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’ as 
appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over 
the life of the agreement. 
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities 
or cash advanced or received. The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally 
reflected on the balance sheet. Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability 
respectively. 
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet. If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to 
return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are 
included in ‘Net trading income’. 
(l) Derivatives and hedge accounting  
Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value. Fair values of exchange-
traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices. Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are 
obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.  
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded 
conversion option. Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics 
and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract; the terms of the embedded derivative 
would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract; and the 
combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. These embedded derivatives are measured 
at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement. 
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is 
negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions 
are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a 
net basis. 
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are 
designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged. All gains and losses 
from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement. When 
derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: (i) hedges of the change in fair value of 
recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (‘fair value hedges’); (ii) hedges of the variability in highly 
probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction (‘cash flow 
hedges’); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (‘net investment hedges’). Hedge accounting 
is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge 
provided certain criteria are met. 
Hedge accounting 
At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments 
and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge. HSBC also 
requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the 
hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. Interest on 
designated qualifying hedges is included in ‘Net interest income’. 
Fair value hedge 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are 
recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group 
thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
304 
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective 
interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, 
it is released to the income statement immediately. 
Cash flow hedge 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income within ‘Cash flow hedges – fair value gains/(losses)’. Any 
gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income 
statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss. However, when the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains 
and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from equity and included in the 
initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity until the 
forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is 
immediately reclassified to the income statement. 
Net investment hedge 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. A gain 
or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income; a gain or 
loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part 
disposal, of the foreign operation. 
Hedge effectiveness testing 
To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each 
hedge must be expected to be highly effective (prospective effectiveness), and demonstrate actual effectiveness 
(retrospective effectiveness) on an ongoing basis. 
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed. The 
method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy. 
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is 
designated. For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each 
other in the range of 80% to 125%. 
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised immediately in the income statement. These gains and losses are reported in ‘Net trading income’, 
except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value (other 
than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC), in which case gains and losses 
are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. The interest on derivatives 
managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC which are designated at fair value is recognised in 
‘Interest expense’. All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting include non-qualifying hedges entered into as part of 
documented interest rate management strategies for which hedge accounting was not, or could not, be applied. 
The size and direction of changes in fair value of non-qualifying hedges can be volatile from year to year, but do   
305 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented management strategies for both the non-qualifying 
hedge instruments and the assets and liabilities to which the documented interest rate strategies relate. Non-
qualifying hedges therefore operate as economic hedges of the related assets and liabilities. 
(m) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities  
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired; or 
when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: 
– substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred; or  
– HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained 
control. 
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, 
cancelled, or expires. 
(n) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
(o) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries. Where HSBC is a party to a contractual 
arrangement whereby, together with one or more parties, it undertakes an economic activity that is subject to 
joint control, HSBC classifies its interest in the venture as a joint venture. HSBC classifies investments in 
entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates. 
For the purpose of determining this classification, control is considered to be the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses. An impairment loss 
recognised in prior periods shall be reversed through the income statement if, and only if, there has been a 
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary since the last 
impairment loss was recognised. 
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this 
method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter 
for the post-acquisition change in HSBC’s share of net assets. 
(p) Goodwill and intangible assets  
(i) Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration 
transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. If the amount 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the 
cost of investment exceeds HSBC’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s or joint venture’s 
identifiable assets and liabilities.  
Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual 
or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.  
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is 
undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s 
cash-generating units are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. Impairment testing 
is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be 
impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount from a cash-generating unit with the carrying amount of its 
net assets, including attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value 
less cost to sell, and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of the expected future cash flows from  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
306 
a cash-generating unit. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is 
charged to the income statement. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in ‘Interests in associates 
and joint ventures’ and is not tested separately for impairment. 
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBC’s share of net assets in the 
calculation of the gain or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been 
allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is 
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU 
retained. 
(ii) Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, 
trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer 
relationships and merchant or other loan relationships. Computer software includes both purchased and 
internally generated software. The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable 
costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management. Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately 
as incurred. 
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where:  
– intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for 
impairment annually. This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is 
performed at the same time every year. An intangible asset recognised during the current period is 
tested before the end of the current year; and 
– intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for the present value of in-force long-term insurance 
business, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful 
life. The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within ‘Net fee income’. 
For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business (see 
Note 24). 
(iii) Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful 
lives as follows:  
Trade names ............................................................................................................................ 10 years 
Mortgage servicing rights ....................................................................................................... generally between 5 and 12 years
Internally generated software .................................................................................................. between 3 and 5 years 
Purchased software .................................................................................................................. between 3 and 5 years 
Customer/merchant relationships ............................................................................................ between 3 and 10 years 
Other ........................................................................................................................................ generally 10 years 
(q) Property, plant and equipment  
Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (‘deemed cost’), 
less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as 
follows: 
– freehold land is not depreciated; 
– freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their 
remaining useful lives; and 
– leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their 
remaining useful lives. 
Equipment, fixtures and fittings (including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor) are stated 
at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation, is calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets 
over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years.   
307 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances 
which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both. Investment 
properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income 
statement. Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation 
techniques. 
(r) Finance and operating leases 
Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of 
assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases. When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases 
the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in ‘Loans and advances to 
banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’, as appropriate. The finance income receivable is recognised in 
‘Net interest income’ over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment 
in the leases. 
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in ‘Property, plant 
and equipment’ and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in ‘Other liabilities’. A finance lease and 
its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of 
the minimum lease payments. Finance charges payable are recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the period of 
the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to 
operating leases in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and accounts for them accordingly. Impairment losses are 
recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is 
thereby impaired. When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet. Rentals 
payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the 
leases and are included in ‘General and administrative expenses’ and ‘Other operating income’, respectively.  
(s) Income tax 
Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it 
is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears. 
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net 
basis and the legal right to offset exists.  
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised.  
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised 
or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset.  
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in 
equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related 
cumulative remuneration expense. Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale 
investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive 
income, is also charged or credited to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income 
statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
308 
(t) Pension and other post-employment benefits  
HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world. These plans 
include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as 
post-employment healthcare. 
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBC’s obligations 
under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render 
service. 
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the 
reporting date by the schemes’ actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The net charge to the income 
statement mainly comprises the current service cost, plus the unwinding of the discount rate on plan liabilities, 
less the expected return on plan assets, and is presented in operating expenses. Past service costs are charged 
immediately to the income statement to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised 
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest. Actuarial gains and losses comprise 
experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has 
actually occurred), as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit 
obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Any net 
defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds 
and reductions in future contributions to the plan.  
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-
care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans. 
(u) Share-based payments 
HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as 
compensation for services provided by employees. Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle 
employees to receive equity instruments of HSBC. Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle 
employees to receive cash or other assets based on the price or value of the equity instruments of HSBC. 
The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to ‘Retained earnings’. The vesting period is the period 
during which all the specified vesting conditions of the arrangement are to be satisfied. The fair value of equity 
instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed 
immediately. 
For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at 
the fair value of the liability, as the employees render service. Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is 
remeasured, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. 
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions of 
the award. Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance conditions; any other features of the 
arrangement are non-vesting conditions. Market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether these conditions are satisfied, provided all other vesting conditions are satisfied.  
Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate 
of the fair value at the grant date. They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments 
included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as 
consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that 
eventually vest. On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because 
of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions.  
Where an award has been modified, as a minimum, the expense of the original award continues to be recognised 
as if it had not been modified. Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or 
increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award of the extra equity instruments   
309 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the 
modified vesting period. 
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised 
immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period. 
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, 
the cost is recognised in ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ and credited to the ‘Retained earnings’ over the vesting 
period. When a subsidiary funds the share-based payment arrangement, ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ is reduced 
by the fair value of the equity instruments. 
(v) Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBC’s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). HSBC’s consolidated 
financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency.  
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange 
differences are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the 
date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined. Any 
exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income if 
the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income. Any exchange 
component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement if the gain or loss 
on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement. 
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of 
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated 
into the Group’s presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of 
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated 
into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period. Exchange differences arising from the 
retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the 
result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net 
investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements. 
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement. 
(w) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a 
current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are 
possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or 
non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC; or are present 
obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will 
require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of 
settlement is remote.  
(x) Financial guarantee contracts 
Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded 
initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable. Subsequently, financial guarantee  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
 
310 
liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate 
of the expenditure required to settle the obligations. 
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities. Where it has 
previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting 
applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract in HSBC 
Holdings’ financial statements. This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each 
contract is irrevocable. Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured 
and recognised as insurance liabilities. 
(y) Insurance contracts 
Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk 
or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by 
agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an 
insurance contract. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance 
contract if the insurance risk is significant. 
While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to 
be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 
Insurance contracts are accounted for as follows: 
Premiums  
Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance 
contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period. The unearned premium (the 
proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance 
sheet date) is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis.  
Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance 
contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established. 
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance 
contracts to which they relate. 
Claims and reinsurance recoveries 
Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding 
claims liabilities. 
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, 
including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration. 
Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims. 
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment. Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date 
on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance 
liabilities. Death claims are recognised when notified. 
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. 
Liabilities under insurance contracts 
Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all 
claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claim-
handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Liabilities for claims 
incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques. 
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on 
local actuarial principles. 
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value 
which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.   
311 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities 
is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows. When performing the liability adequacy test, all 
contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability. When a shortfall is 
identified it is charged immediately to the income statement. 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term 
investment contracts with discretionary participating features (‘DPF’) and are in force at the balance sheet date is 
recognised as an asset. The asset represents the present value of the equity holders’ interest in the profits 
expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date. 
The present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with DPF, 
referred to as ‘PVIF’, is determined by discounting the equity holders’ interest in future profits expected to 
emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future 
mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to 
the respective contracts. The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial 
options and guarantees. The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements 
in the PVIF asset are included in ‘Other operating income’ on a gross of tax basis. 
Future profit participation 
Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts 
include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders. These provisions reflect actual 
performance of the investment portfolio to date and management expectation on the future performance in 
connection with the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses 
and operational efficiency, where appropriate. This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or 
past distribution policy. 
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on contracts whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the 
actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in 
either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on 
the relevant assets. In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the 
extent that its recoverability is highly probable. Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and 
losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement. 
Investment contracts 
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial 
assets are designated at fair value. Movements in fair value are recognised in ‘Net income from financial 
investments designated at fair value’. Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as 
increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts. 
Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is 
calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. 
Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision 
of the investment management services, in ‘Net fee income’. 
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing 
investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management 
services are provided. 
(z) Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks 
Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with 
counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the 
consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Subsequent measurement of 
financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is 
at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies / 3 – Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
 
 
312 
of directly attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the 
instrument. 
(aa) Share capital 
Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from 
the proceeds, net of tax.  
HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until 
they are cancelled. When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration 
received is included in equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income 
tax effects. 
(ab) Cash and cash equivalents 
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value. Such investments are normally those with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition. 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans 
and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates 
of deposit. 
(ac) Rights issues 
Rights issues to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any 
currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights issues pro rata to all of its existing owners of the 
same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. On initial recognition, these rights are recognised in 
shareholders’ equity and are not subsequently re-measured during the offer period. Following the exercise of 
the rights and the allotment of new shares, the cash proceeds of the rights issue are recognised in shareholders’ 
equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the rights issue are shown as a deduction from the proceeds, 
net of tax. 
(ad) Assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups (including both the assets and liabilities of the disposal groups) are 
classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale, they are 
available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. Non-current assets held for sale and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except for 
deferred tax assets, financial assets, investment properties, insurance contracts and assets arising from employee 
benefits, which are measured in accordance with the accounting policies described above. Immediately before 
the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the asset (or assets and liabilities in the disposal 
group) are measured in accordance with applicable IFRSs. On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, 
the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements 
of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ are remeasured in accordance with 
applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group is determined.  
Income earned and expenses incurred on assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
continue to be recognised in the appropriate line items in the income statement until the transaction is complete. 
Loan impairment charges incurred on assets held for sale continue to be recognised in ‘Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions’ and interest income and expense continues to be recognised in ‘Net interest 
income’. Once classified as held for sale, movements arising from the initial measurement or subsequent 
remeasurement of the non-current assets (or disposal groups) are recognised in ‘Other operating income’.   
313 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: 
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, 
including liabilities under investment contracts; 
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial 
assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and 
• interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: 
– financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and  
– derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, 
except for interest arising from HSBC’s issued debt securities and derivatives managed in conjunction with those 
debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
HSBC 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net income/(expense) arising on:     
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment 
contracts ............................................................................................................. (933) 2,349  3,793 
–  other financial assets designated at fair value ........................................................ 1,050 230  2 
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets  
designated at fair value ...................................................................................... (182) (149)  (249)
 (65) 2,430  3,546 
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts ............................................... 231 (946) (1,329)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives ......................................... 4,161 (258)  (6,247)
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt ............................................... 3,933 (63)  (6,533)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC’s issued debt securities ........ 3,165 (275)  (1,726)
–  other changes in fair value ................................................................................. (2,937) 80  2,012
–  other financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................. (911) (18) 492 
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities  
designated at fair value ...................................................................................... 23 12  7 
 3,504 (1,210) (7,077)
 3,439 1,220  (3,531)
HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net income/(expense) arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and  
related derivatives      
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt ............................................... 1,657 248  (2,612)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued  
debt securities ..................................................................................................... 1,368 (482)  (352)
–  other changes in fair value ................................................................................. (1,113) 373  201 
 1,912 139  (2,763)
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
4 – Net earned insurance premiums / 5 – Net insurance claims incurred / 6 – Operating profit 
 
 
314 
4 Net earned insurance premiums 
 
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts 
 with DPF
1
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011      
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 1,144 6,238 2,801 3,155 13,338 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 1,175 6,207 2,804 3,155  13,341
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... (31) 31 (3) –  (3)
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (180) (278) (8) – (466)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (182) (255) (8) –  (445)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned 
premiums ............................................................... 2 (23) – –  (21)
 964 5,960 2,793 3,155 12,872 
2010      
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 1,275 5,427 1,956 2,951 11,609 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 1,192 5,357 1,956 2,951  11,456
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... 83 70 – –  153
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (160) (289) (14) – (463)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (172) (266) (8) –  (446)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned 
premiums ............................................................... 12 (23) (6) –  (17)
 1,115 5,138 1,942 2,951 11,146 
2009      
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 1,572 5,218 1,427 2,774 10,991 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 1,339 5,285 1,427 2,774  10,825
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... 233 (67) – –  166
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (225) (278) (17) – (520)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (215) (280) (11) –  (506)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned 
premiums ............................................................... (10) 2 (6) –  (14)
 1,347 4,940 1,410 2,774 10,471 
1 Discretionary participation features. 
5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders  
 
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts  
  with DPF
1
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011      
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 435 5,729 2,462 3,005 11,631 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 631 1,793 1,129 2,628  6,181
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (196) 3,936 1,333 377  5,450
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (85) (254) (111) – (450)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (81) (164) (56) –  (301)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (4) (90) (55) –  (149)
 350 5,475 2,351 3,005 11,181 
   
315 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts  
  with DPF
1
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2010      
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 625 5,108 2,520 3,716 11,969 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 815 1,355 507 2,023  4,700
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (190) 3,753 2,013 1,693  7,269
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (100) (201) 99 – (202)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (114) (143) (45) –  (302)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... 14 (58) 144 –  100
 525 4,907 2,619 3,716 11,767 
2009      
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 1,281 4,669 2,676 3,934 12,560 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 987 2,098 325 1,818  5,228
– movement in liabilities .......................................... 294 2,571 2,351 2,116  7,332
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (158) (98) 146 – (110)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (156) (159) (21) –  (336)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (2) 61 167 –  226
 1,123 4,571 2,822 3,934 12,450 
1 Discretionary participation features. 
6 Operating profit 
Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses: 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Income    
Interest recognised on impaired financial assets
1
 ....................................................... 1,604 516 941 
Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated  
at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on 
these types of assets and liabilities ......................................................................... 11,318 11,445 12,310 
Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds  
or invests assets on behalf of its customers ........................................................... 3,072 3,074 2,735 
Income from listed investments .................................................................................. 8,283 7,418 9,201 
Income from unlisted investments .............................................................................. 8,031 7,187 7,085 
Losses from the fraud at Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC  
(within net trading income) .................................................................................... – – (72)
Gain arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures .................... 208 188 – 
Expense    
Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities  
held for trading or designated at fair value ............................................................ (20,965) (17,549) (19,737)
Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated  
at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on 
these types of assets and liabilities ......................................................................... (1,697) (1,529) (1,580)
Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where  
HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers ...................................... (182) (151) (116)
UK bank levy .............................................................................................................. (570) – – 
Auditors’ remuneration (see Note 8) .......................................................................... (51) (51) (51)
Gains/(losses)    
Gain on disposal or settlement of loans and advances ............................................... 116 121 244 
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities ..................................................... (177) (105) (358)
Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and  
non-financial investments ...................................................................................... 57 701 1,033 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ................................. (12,127) (14,039) (26,488)
Net impairment charge on loans and advances ...................................................... (11,505) (13,548) (24,942)
Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities .................................................... (631) (472) (1,474)
Release/(impairment) in respect of other credit risk provisions ............................ 9 (19) (72) HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
 
316 
1 During 2011 the Group adopted a more stringent treatment for impaired loans for geographical regions with significant levels of 
forbearance. As a result loans and advances have been classified as impaired that under the previous disclosure convention would 
otherwise have been classified as neither past due nor impaired or past due but not impaired. The effect of this change on 2011 reported 
numbers was to increase interest earned on impaired loans from US$0.3bn to US$1.5bn. Restatement of comparative data prior to 31 
December 2010 is impracticable (see page 133, ‘Impaired loans disclosure’ for further detail).   
7 Employee compensation and benefits 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Wages and salaries ...................................................................................................... 18,923 17,193 16,268 
Social security costs .................................................................................................... 1,754 1,567 1,512 
Post-employment benefits .......................................................................................... 489 1,076 688 
 21,166 19,836 18,468 
Included in ‘Wages and salaries’ above is US$1,162m (2010: US$812m; 2009: US$683m) relating to share-based 
payment arrangements (see Note 9). Wages and salaries also includes US$88m (2010: US$15m; 2009: US$5m) in 
respect of deferred cash awards for current and prior performance years. The Group expects to recognise US$159m in 
the future in respect of deferred cash awards for current and prior performance years. 
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 
 2011 2010 2009 
Europe ......................................................................................................................... 81,263 79,902 84,056 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................. 30,323 29,105 28,894 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................................... 92,685 89,737 88,122 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................................... 8,816 8,983 8,468 
North America ............................................................................................................ 34,871 36,822 42,202 
Latin America ............................................................................................................. 58,026 57,778 57,774 
Total ............................................................................................................................ 305,984 302,327 309,516 
Post-employment benefit plans 
Income statement charge 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Defined benefit pension plans .................................................................................... (172) 468  161 
– HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme ................................................................ (428) 308  (179)
– Other plans ...................................................................................................... 256 160  340
Defined contribution pension plans ........................................................................... 626 545  492 
 454 1,013  653 
Defined benefit healthcare plans ................................................................................ 32 58  31 
Defined contribution healthcare plans ........................................................................ 3 5  4 
 489 1,076  688   
 
317 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Defined benefit pension plans .................................................................................................................. (208) (2,867)
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme ..................................................................................................... 2,237  (622)
–  fair value of plan assets ................................................................................................................ 26,604  22,236 
–  present value of defined benefit obligations ................................................................................ (24,367) (22,858)
Other plans ........................................................................................................................................... (2,445) (2,245)
–  fair value of plan assets ................................................................................................................ 8,232  7,559 
–  present value of defined benefit obligations ................................................................................ (10,680) (9,785)
–  effect of limit on plan surpluses ................................................................................................... (18) (47)
–  unrecognised past service cost ..................................................................................................... 21  28 
Defined benefit healthcare plans .......................................................................................................... (961) (946)
–  fair value of plan assets ................................................................................................................ 151  165 
–  present value of defined benefit obligations ................................................................................ (1,091) (1,087)
–  unrecognised past service cost ..................................................................................................... (21) (24)
Fair value of plan assets ........................................................................................................................... 34,987  29,960 
Present value of defined benefit obligations ............................................................................................ (36,138) (33,730)
Effect of limit on plan surpluses ............................................................................................................... (18) (47)
Unrecognised past service cost ................................................................................................................. –   4 
 (1,169) (3,813)
Retirement benefit liabilities .................................................................................................................... (3,666) (3,856)
Retirement benefit assets .......................................................................................................................... 2,497  43 
Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
At 1 January ............................................................................................................................................... (4,720)  (4,660)
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme .......................................................................................................... 1,945   321
Other plans ................................................................................................................................................. (642)  (275)
Healthcare plans ........................................................................................................................................ (61)  (112)
Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses
1 
........................................................................................ 25   6
Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income ............................................... 1,267   (60)
At 31 December
2
 ........................................................................................................................................ (3,453)  (4,720)
1 Excludes exchange loss of US$4m (2010: US$6m gain). 
2 Includes cumulative movements related to the limit on plan surpluses. This limit is US$18m at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$47m).  
HSBC pension plans 
 2011 2010 2009 
Number of plans worldwide ........................................................................................ 230 218 211 
 % % % 
Percentage of HSBC employees:     
– enrolled in defined contribution plans ............................................................ 64 63 59 
– enrolled in defined benefit plans ..................................................................... 25 27 29 
– covered by HSBC pension plans .................................................................... 89 90 88 
HSBC has been progressively offering all new employees membership of defined contribution plans.  
The majority of the Group’s defined benefit plans are funded plans. The assets of most of the larger plans are held in 
trusts or similar funds separate from HSBC. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local 
practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit 
obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the 
plans are situated.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
318 
Pension plans in the UK 
The largest plan exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) covers employees of 
HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC. This comprises a funded defined benefit plan (‘the principal 
plan’), which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established in July 1996 for new 
employees.  
The latest actuarial valuation of the principal plan was made as at 31 December 2008 by C G Singer, Fellow of the 
Institute of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Limited. At that date, the market value of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme’s assets was £10.6bn (US$15.5bn) (including assets relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined contribution 
plan and additional voluntary contributions). The market value of the plan assets represented 77% of the amount 
expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members after 
allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to £3.2bn (US$4.7bn). The 
method adopted for this investigation was the projected unit method.  
The expected cash flows from the principal plan were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) swap 
break-even curve at 31 December 2008. Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% per annum above RPI and 
inflationary pension increases, subject to a minimum of zero per cent and a maximum of 5% (maximum of 3% per 
annum in respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009), were assumed to be in line with RPI. The projected cash 
flows were discounted at the LIBOR swap curve at 31 December 2008 plus a margin for the expected return on the 
investment strategy of 190 basis points per annum. The mortality experience of the principal plan’s pensioners over 
the three year period since the previous valuation was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, the mortality 
assumptions were set based on the SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to best fit the pensioner experience. Allowance 
was made for future improvements to mortality rates in line with the medium cohort projections with a minimum 
improvement rate set at 1.75% for males and 1.25% for females. The benefits payable from the defined benefit plan 
are forecast to be as shown in the chart below. 
Benefit payments (US$m) 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2012
2018
2024
2030
2036
2042
2048
2054
2060
2066
2072
2078
2084
2090
2096
 
 
The expected cash flows of the principal plan were historically projected by reference to the Retail Prices Index 
(‘RPI’) swap curve in calculating the liability recognised. The Occupational Pensions (Revaluation) Order 2010 
confirmed the UK government's intention to move to using the Consumer Prices Index (‘CPI’) rather than RPI as the 
inflation measure for determining the minimum pension increases to be applied to the statutory index-linked features 
of retirement benefits. Historical annual CPI increases have generally been lower than annual RPI increases. The 
rules of the principal plan prescribe that annual increases for pensions in payment are in line with RPI, but for 
deferred pensions, i.e. pensions for members of the scheme who have left HSBC employment but whose pensions are 
yet to commence, are linked to the statutory index prior to retirement. However, consistent with communications to 
scheme members, HSBC has historically used RPI in calculating the pension liability for deferred pensions. 
In May 2011, the trustee of the principal plan communicated to scheme members the impact on scheme benefits of 
the UK government’s announcement. At 30 June 2011, HSBC used CPI for increases to deferred pensions before 
retirement in calculating the pension liability recognised, which resulted in a reduction of the principal plan’s 
liabilities in respect of deferred pensioners of US$587m. A corresponding gain was recognised as a credit to past 
service cost and is included within ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ in the income statement. 
As part of the 31 December 2008 valuation, calculations were also carried out as to the amount of assets that might be 
needed to meet the liabilities if the Scheme was discontinued and the members’ benefits bought out with an insurance   
 
319 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
company (although in practice this may not be possible for a plan of this size) or the Trustee continued to run the plan 
without the support of HSBC. The amount required under this approach is estimated to be £19.8bn (US$28.9bn) as at 
31 December 2008. In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent assumption about future mortality was made than 
for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to 
be an appropriately matched portfolio of UK government bonds. An explicit allowance for expenses was also 
included.  
In February 2010, HSBC Bank plc agreed with the Trustee of the Scheme to reduce the deficit of the plan by meeting 
a schedule of future funding payments. On 17 June 2010, HSBC Bank plc agreed with the Trustee to accelerate the 
reduction of the deficit of the plan with a special contribution of £1,760m (US$2,638m) in 2010 followed by a 
revised payment schedule in the following years, as shown below: 
Additional future funding payments to the principal plan 
 Original plan  Original plan  Revised plan  Revised plan 
 US$m
1
 £m  US$m
1
  £m 
2012 ............................................................. 720  465  –  – 
2013 ............................................................. 720  465  –  – 
2014 ............................................................. 720  465  –  – 
2015 ............................................................. 975  630  –  – 
2016 ............................................................. 975  630  766  495 
2017 ............................................................. 975  630  975  630 
2018 ............................................................. 975  630  975  630 
1 The payment schedule was agreed with the Trustee in pounds sterling and the equivalent US dollar amounts are shown at the exchange 
rate effective as at 31 December 2011. 
In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) special contribution to the Scheme. The additional 
contribution did not result in an amendment to the future funding payments to the principal plan, set out in the table 
above.  
HSBC considers that the contributions set out above, together with investment returns at an expected level of 
240 basis points above the LIBOR swap curve, would be sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 over 
the agreed period. At each subsequent actuarial valuation, HSBC has agreed with the Trustee that any shortfall in 
investment returns relative to this expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis points per annum, will be 
eliminated by payment of equal cash instalments over the remaining years to the end of this recovery plan period. 
HSBC Bank plc also agreed to make ongoing contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits 
of defined benefit section members at the rate of 34% of pensionable salaries (less member contributions) payable 
from 1 April 2010 until the completion of the next actuarial valuation, due as at 31 December 2011. During 2009, 
HSBC paid contributions at the rate of 38% of pensionable salaries (less member contributions) and continued 
contributions at this rate until 31 March 2010.  
On 1 July 2009, changes to the design of the principal plan were made. This included the introduction of employee 
contributions, optionality concerning future benefit accrual and, with effect from 1 April 2010, an increased normal 
retirement age of 65 years. In addition, enhancements to the defined contribution section were also introduced.  
Pension plans in Hong Kong 
In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC. The scheme comprises a 
funded defined benefit scheme (which provides a lump sum on retirement but is now closed to new members) and a 
defined contribution scheme. The latter was established on 1 January 1999 for new employees. The latest actuarial 
valuation of the defined benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2010 by Wing Lui, Fellow of the Society of 
Actuaries, of Towers Watson Hong Kong Limited. At that valuation date, the market value of the defined benefit 
scheme’s assets was US$1,109m. On an ongoing basis, the actuarial value of the defined benefit scheme’s assets 
represented 104% of the actuarial present value of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future 
increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$41m. On a wind-up basis, the defined benefit scheme’s 
assets represented 110% of the members’ vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to 
US$105m. The attained age method has been adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions used in this 
valuation were a discount rate of 6% per annum and long-term salary increases of 5% per annum.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
320 
Pension plans in North America 
The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance 
and other HSBC entities in the US who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation 
requirement. The Retirement Income Plan is a funded defined benefit plan which provides final average pay benefits 
to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants. All new employees participate in the cash 
balance section of the plan. In November 2009, the Board of Directors of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. 
(‘HNAH’) approved actions to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under the final average pay 
formula components of the HSBC North America Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 January 2011. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan to determine compliance with US statutory funding requirements was 
made at 1 January 2011 by Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary, member of the 
American Academy of Actuaries, of Mercer. At that date, the market value of the plan’s assets was US$2,673m. The 
assets represented 90% of the benefits accrued to members as valued under the provisions of the Pension Protection 
Act of 2006 that was effective for the plan year beginning 1 January 2008. The resulting deficit amounted to 
US$283m. The method employed for this valuation was the traditional unit credit method and the discount rate was 
determined using a segment rate method as selected by HSBC under the relevant regulations, which resulted in an 
effective interest rate of 6.36% per annum. 
These determinations described above for actuarial funding valuation purposes are based on different methods and 
assumptions than those used for financial reporting purposes, and as a result should neither be compared nor related 
to other determinations included in these financial statements. 
At 31 December 2011, the present values of the defined benefit obligations of The HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme was US$24,367m (2010: US$22,858m), The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit 
Scheme was US$1,523m (2010:US$1,371m) and the HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan was 
US$3,895m (2010: US$3,384m). These defined benefit pension plans covered 33% of HSBC’s employees and 
represented 82% of the Group’s present value of defined benefit obligations. 
HSBC healthcare benefits plans 
HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Bermuda, Canada, Mexico 
and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded. The majority of post-employment healthcare benefits plans are 
defined benefit plans and are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans. The plans are 
reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial 
assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the 
economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.  
At 31 December 2011, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of HSBC’s healthcare benefit plans was 
US$1,091m (2010: US$1,087m). In aggregate, healthcare benefit plans comprised 3% of HSBC’s present value of 
defined benefit obligations.   
 
321 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Defined benefit pension plans 
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 
2011 2010 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value of plan assets     
At 1 January .................................................................................. 22,236 17,701 7,559 6,822 
Expected return on plan assets ..................................................... 1,325 1,092 481 437 
Contributions by HSBC ................................................................ 600 2,890 565 422 
– normal .................................................................................... 314 252 176 194
– special .................................................................................... 286 2,638 389 228
Contributions by employees ......................................................... 34 23 22 17 
Experience gains ........................................................................... 3,426 1,772 200 394 
Benefits paid ................................................................................. (803) (744) (495) (440)
Transfers ....................................................................................... – 136 – (136)
Assets distributed on curtailments ................................................ – – – (7)
Assets distributed on settlements ................................................. – – (25) (10)
Exchange differences .................................................................... (214) (634) (75) 60 
At 31 December ............................................................................ 26,604 22,236 8,232 7,559 
     
Present value of defined benefit obligations     
At 1 January .................................................................................. (22,858) (21,523) (9,785) (9,109)
Current service cost ...................................................................... (251) (252) (299) (300)
Interest cost ................................................................................... (1,233) (1,148) (456) (438)
Contributions by employees ......................................................... (34) (23) (22) (17)
Actuarial losses ............................................................................. (1,481) (1,451) (842) (669)
Benefits paid ................................................................................. 804 744 569 518 
Past service cost – vested immediately ........................................ 587 – (40) (11)
Past service cost – unvested benefits ............................................ – – 2 (20)
Transfers ....................................................................................... – (136) – 136 
Reduction in liabilities resulting from curtailments ..................... – – 59 158 
Liabilities extinguished on settlements ........................................ – – 29 12 
Exchange differences .................................................................... 99 931 105 (45)
At 31 December ............................................................................ (24,367) (22,858) (10,680) (9,785)
Funded ...................................................................................... (24,367) (22,858) (10,074) (9,241)
Unfunded .................................................................................. – – (606) (544)
     
Effect of limit on plan surpluses ................................................... – – (18) (47)
Unrecognised past service cost ..................................................... – – 21 28 
Net asset/(liability) ....................................................................... 2,237 (622) (2,445) (2,245)
Retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet ..... – (622) (2,705) (2,288)
Retirement benefit assets recognised in the balance sheet  
(within ‘Other assets’) .............................................................. 2,237 – 260 43 
Plan assets of the Group’s pension schemes included US$45m (2010: US$57m) of equities and no bonds (2010: 
US$1m) issued by HSBC and US$1,228m (2010: US$1,592m) of other assets placed or transacted with HSBC. The 
fair value of plan assets included derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc by the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme with a positive fair value of US$5,560m at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$2,173m positive fair value) and 
US$297m positive fair value (2010: US$77m positive fair value) in respect of the HSBC International Staff 
Retirement Benefits Scheme. Further details of these swap arrangements are included in Note 45. 
On 17 June 2010, HSBC Bank plc made a £1,760m (US$2,638m) special contribution to accelerate the reduction of 
the deficit of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. On the same day the Scheme used the contribution to acquire 
debt securities with a fair value of £1,760m (US$2,638m) from HSBC in a transaction at an arm’s length value 
determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. The debt securities sold comprised supra-national, 
agency and government-guaranteed securities, asset-backed securities, corporate subordinated debt and auction rate 
securities. 
In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) special contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme. Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length 
value, determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
322 
The special contributions of US$389m to other plans include an additional contribution of US$357m to the HSBC 
North America (US) Retirement Income Plan which was made to maintain a minimum funding level. 
The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 was a positive return of US$5,432m (2010: 
positive US$3,695m).  
HSBC expects to make US$571m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2012. Benefits expected to 
be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as 
follows: 
Benefits expected to be paid from plans 
 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  2017-2021 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme .. 787 828 873 938 997 6,174 
Other plans ......................................... 524 532 561 579 611 3,839 
Total (income)/expense recognised in the income statement in ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
  
Current service cost ........................... 251 252 260 299 300 334 
Interest cost ........................................ 1,233 1,148 1,019 456 438 397 
Expected return on plan assets .......... (1,325) (1,092) (959) (481) (437) (381)
Past service cost ................................. (587) – – 45 12 21 
Gains on curtailments ........................ – – – (59) (151) (36)
(Gains)/losses on settlements ............ – – (499) (4) (2) 5 
Total (income)/expense ..................... (428) 308 (179) 256 160 340 
The US$499m settlement gain in 2009 relates to an accounting benefit following a restructuring of the basis of 
delivery of death in service and ill health early retirement benefits to certain UK employees. 
Summary 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation .................. (24,367) (22,858) (21,523) (15,257) (23,512)
Fair value of plan assets ............................................... 26,604 22,236 17,701 14,865  22,704 
Net surplus/(deficit) ...................................................... 2,237 (622) (3,822) (392) (808)
      
Experience losses on plan liabilities ............................. (383) (327) (234) (49) (64)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets ...................... 3,426 1,772 871 (2,861) 29 
Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial  
assumptions .............................................................. (1,098) (1,124) (4,329) 3,081  2,459 
Total net actuarial gains/(losses) .................................. 1,945 321 (3,692) 171 2,424 
     
Present value of defined benefit obligation .................... (10,680) (9,785) (9,109) (8,787) (8,873)
Fair value of plan assets ................................................. 8,232 7,559 6,822 6,024 7,768 
Net deficit ....................................................................... (2,448) (2,226) (2,287) (2,763) (1,105)
      
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities .................. (78) (73) 20 (52) (354)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets ........................ 200 394 65 (1,452) 157 
Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial  
assumptions ................................................................ (764) (596) 94 (306) (121)
Total net actuarial gains/(losses) .................................... (642) (275) 179 (1,810) (318)
   
323 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions 
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s obligations for the largest defined benefit 
pension plans at 31 December for each period, and used as the basis for measuring periodic costs under the plans in 
the following periods, were as follows. 
Principal actuarial assumptions 
 
 Discount 
 rate 
 Inflation
 rate 
 Rate of  
 increase for 
 pensions  
 Rate 
 of pay
 increase 
  %  %  %   % 
At 31 December 2011      
UK
1
 ................................................................................................. 4.80 3.20 3.10  3.70 
Hong Kong ..................................................................................... 1.47 n/a n/a  5.00 
US ................................................................................................... 4.60 2.50 n/a  2.75 
      
At 31 December 2010      
UK
1
 ................................................................................................. 5.40  3.70  3.50   4.20 
Hong Kong ..................................................................................... 2.85  n/a  n/a   5.00 
US ................................................................................................... 5.41  2.50  n/a   2.75 
      
At 31 December 2009      
UK
1
 ................................................................................................. 5.70  3.70  3.50   4.20 
Hong Kong ..................................................................................... 2.58  n/a  n/a   5.00 
US ................................................................................................... 5.92  2.50  n/a   3.50 
1 Rate of increase for pensions in the UK is for pensions in payment only, capped at 5%. Deferred pensions are projected to increase in 
line with the consumer price index (‘CPI’), capped at 5%. In prior periods deferred pensions were projected to increase in line with the 
retail price index (‘RPI’), capped at 5%. 
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, 
on the basis of current average yields of high quality (AA rated or equivalent) debt instruments, with maturities 
consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations. In countries where there is not a deep market in corporate 
bonds, government bond yields have been used. The yield curve has been extrapolated where the term of the 
liabilities is longer than the duration of available bonds and the discount rate used then takes into account the term 
of the liabilities and the shape of the yield curve. When determining the discount rate with reference to a bond index, 
an appropriate index for the specific region has been used. 
Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 
 
Mortality table 
Life expectancy at 
age 65 for a male 
member currently: 
Life expectancy at 
age 65 for a female 
member currently: 
  Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 
At 31 December 2011        
UK ....................................................................... SAPS MC
1
 22.5 24.4  23.5  25.4 
Hong Kong
2
 ........................................................ n/a n/a n/a  n/a  n/a 
US ....................................................................... RP 2000 fully generational 19.4 20.9  21.3  22.2 
        
At 31 December 2010        
UK ....................................................................... SAPS MC
1
 22.4 24.3  23.4  25.3 
Hong Kong
2
 ........................................................ n/a n/a n/a  n/a  n/a 
US ....................................................................... RP 2000 fully generational 19.3 20.8  21.2  22.1 
1 SAPS MC projections with 1% minimum improvement beyond 2002. Light table with 1.08 rating for male and standard table with 1.06 
rating for female. 
2 The significant plans in Hong Kong are lump sum plans which do not use a post-retirement mortality table.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Employee compensation and benefits / 8 – Auditors’ remuneration 
 
 
324 
Expected rates of return 
2011 2010 
 Expected
 rates of return
1
 Value 
 Expected 
 rates of return
1
   Value 
 %  US$m  %   US$m 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme      
Fair value of plan assets ............................................................... 26,604 22,236 
Equities ..................................................................................... 7.2 3,190 8.4 3,415
Bonds ........................................................................................ 4.1 20,737 5.3 15,638
Property .................................................................................... 6.7 1,524 7.6 1,438
Other ......................................................................................... 2.8 1,153 4.0 1,745
Other plans    
Fair value of plan assets ............................................................... 8,232 7,559 
Equities ..................................................................................... 7.7 2,184 8.2 2,617
Bonds ........................................................................................ 4.7 4,659 5.0 4,073
Property .................................................................................... 4.6 106 6.1 98
Other ......................................................................................... 4.0 1,283 6.2 771
1 The expected rates of return are used to measure the net defined benefit pension costs in each subsequent year, and weighted on the 
basis of the fair value of the plan assets. 
The expected return on plan assets represents the best estimate of long-term future asset returns, which takes into 
account historical market returns plus additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates.  
Actuarial assumption sensitivities 
The discount rate is sensitive to changes in market conditions arising during the reporting period. The mortality rates 
used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile. The following table shows the effect of changes in 
these and the other key assumptions on the principal defined benefit pension plan:  
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan 
 HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Discount rate   
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... (980) (941)
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... 1,045 1,003 
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase ........................................................................... 2 (9)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps decrease .......................................................................... (2) 9 
Rate of inflation   
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 1,026 1,029 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (978) (978)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase ........................................................................... 57 67 
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps decrease .......................................................................... (54) (64)
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions   
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 876 813 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (841) (775)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase ........................................................................... 43 48 
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps decrease .......................................................................... (42) (45)
Rate of pay increase   
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 248 216 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (240) (203)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase ........................................................................... 19 20 
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps decrease .......................................................................... (15) (17)
Investment return   
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase ........................................................................... (65) (54)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps decrease .......................................................................... 67 54 
Mortality   
Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed ................................. 619 497   
 
325 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The effect of changes in the discount rate and in mortality rates on plans other than the principal plan 
 Other plans 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Change in defined benefit obligation at year end from a 25bps increase in discount rate ..................... (325) (290)
Change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase in discount rate .................................................... – (1)
Increase in defined benefit obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed ....................... 144 131 
HSBC Holdings 
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2011 amounted to 
US$413m (2010: US$244m). The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2011 was 1,212 
(2010: 1,015). 
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either 
the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. HSBC 
Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions 
determined by the Trustees of the plan. 
Directors’ emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 were: 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$000 US$000 US$000 
Fees ............................................................................................................................. 5,108 3,597 3,756 
Salaries and other emoluments ................................................................................... 12,906 12,841 11,835 
Bonuses ....................................................................................................................... 12,516 14,294 – 
 30,530 30,732 15,591 
Vesting of long-term incentive awards ...................................................................... 2,596 8,523 1,579 
In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,166,580 (2010: 
US$1,016,089). The provision at 31 December 2011 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors 
amounted to US$18,006,894 (2010: US$17,628,508).  
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$373,310 (2010: 
US$1,055,582). Discretionary bonuses for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate 
performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration Committee. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share 
options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 are included in the ‘Directors’ 
Remuneration Report’ on pages 256 and 274. 
8 Auditors’ remuneration 
  2011  2010   2009 
  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Audit fees payable to KPMG
1
 ...................................................................................... 48.8  49.1   48.2 
Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities ................................................................... 1.9  2.3   2.5 
Total auditors’ remuneration ........................................................................................ 50.7  51.4   50.7 
1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit and audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation. 
The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Group’s principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates 
(together ‘KPMG’):  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
8 – Auditors’ remuneration / 9 – Share-based payments 
 
 
326 
Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 
 
  2011  2010   2009 
  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit
1
 ................................................................... 2.2  2.4   2.3 
– relating to current year ......................................................................................... 2.1  2.4   2.1
– relating to prior year ............................................................................................. 0.1  –   0.2
Fees for other services provided to HSBC ................................................................... 84.9  75.9   77.1 
Audit-related services:     
– audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation
2
 ................................... 46.6  46.7   45.9
– other services pursuant to legislation
3
 ............................................................. 25.7  20.8   24.2
Tax services
4
 ............................................................................................................. 4.3  2.4   2.6
Other services:     
– services relating to information technology
5
 ................................................... 0.1  0.1   0.3
– services related to corporate finance transactions
6
 .......................................... –  –   0.1
– all other services
7
 ............................................................................................. 8.2  5.9   4.0
Total fees payable ......................................................................................................... 87.1  78.3   79.4 
1 Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial 
statements of HSBC Holdings. They exclude amounts payable for the statutory audit of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries which have been 
included in ‘Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to HSBC’. 
2 Including fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries. 
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim 
reviews.  
4 Including tax compliance services and tax advisory services. 
5 Including advice on IT security and business continuity and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures. 
6 Including fees payable to KPMG for transaction-related work, including US debt issuances. 
7 Including other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice and review of financial models, 
and services related to recruitment and remuneration. 
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, valuation and 
actuarial services, and services related to litigation. 
Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG 
  2011  2010   2009 
  US$000  US$000   US$000 
Audit fees ...................................................................................................................... 248  384   670 
Tax services .................................................................................................................. 11  –   – 
All other services .......................................................................................................... –  –   260 
Total fees payable ......................................................................................................... 259  384   930 
No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: other 
services pursuant to legislation, services relating to information technology, internal audit services, valuation and 
actuarial services, services related to litigation, services related to recruitment and remuneration, and services related 
to corporate finance transactions. 
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$8.6m (2010: US$14.9m; 2009: US$8.1m) 
by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved 
in appointing KPMG. These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing 
the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC. 
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are 
disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group.   
 
327 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
9 Share-based payments 
Income statement charge 
 2011 2010  2009 
 US$m
 
US$m  US$m 
Restricted and performance share awards
1
 ................................................................. 1,041 685 539 
Savings-related and other share option plans ............................................................. 121 127 144 
 1,162 812 683 
Equity-settled share-based payments
 
.......................................................................... 1,154 812 683 
Cash-settled share-based payments
 
............................................................................ 8 – – 
1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’), which was approved by 
shareholders in May 2011. 
The share-based payment income statement charge above includes US$974m (2010: US$610m; 2009: US$539m) 
relating to deferred share awards (see below). These charges are recognised in ‘Wages and salaries’ (see Note 7). 
Deferred share awards 
These awards are generally granted to employees early in the year following the year to which the award relates. The 
charge for these awards is recognised from the start of the period to which the service relates to the end of the vesting 
period. The vesting period is the period over which the employee satisfies certain service conditions in order to 
become entitled to the award. Due to the staggered vesting profile of certain deferred share awards, the employee 
becomes entitled to a portion of the award at the end of each year during the vesting period. The income statement 
charge reflects this vesting profile. The following table identifies the charge recognised in the current year, or 
expected to be recognised in future years, and the performance year to which the deferred share awards relate. 
Income statement impact of deferred share awards on current and future years 
 
Charge recognised in 2011 
in respect of performance year: 
Charge expected to be recognised in 2012 
or later in respect of performance year: 
  2011
1
 Pre-2011  Total  2011
1 
  Pre-2011   Total 
 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m  
 US$m 
HSBC deferred share awards ................  131  843  974  289   652   941 
         
 
Charge recognised in 2010  
in respect of performance year: 
Charge expected to be recognised in 2011 
or later in respect of performance year: 
  2010
1
 Pre-2010  Total  2010
1
   Pre-2010   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
HSBC deferred share awards ................  –  610  610  759   801   1,560 
         
 
Charge recognised in 2009 
in respect of performance year: 
Charge expected to be recognised in 2010 
or later in respect of performance year: 
  2009
1
 Pre-2009  Total  2009
1
   Pre-2009   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
HSBC deferred share awards ................  –  539  539  816   719   1,535 
1 Regulatory and best practice guidance has clarified the required structure and terms of deferred bonus arrangements awarded to 
employees, who now have a better understanding of the nature of the awards they may be granted. As a result, the vesting period for 
deferred share awards expected to be granted in 2012 in respect of the 2011 performance year was determined to have started on 
1 January 2011 and a charge was recognised from that date. Previously, the charge was recognised from the grant date.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
9 – Share-based payments  
 
 
328 
HSBC Share Awards 
Award  Policy  Purpose 
Restricted 
share awards 
(including 
GPSP 
awards) 
 • Vesting of awards generally subject to continued 
employment with HSBC 
• Vesting often staggered over three years. GPSP awards 
vest after five years 
• Certain shares subject to a retention requirement post-
vesting. In the case of GPSP awards retention applies 
until cessation of employment 
• Awards generally not subject to performance conditions 
• Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to 
clawback provision prior to vesting 
 • Rewards employee performance and potential and 
retention of key employees 
• To defer variable pay 
Movement on HSBC share awards 
 Restricted share awards
 
Performance share awards
1
 
  2011  2010  2011   2010 
 Number
 (000s) 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 Number  
 (000s) 
  Number 
 (000s) 
Outstanding at 1 January .............................................................. 229,092 184,318 4,425 7,360 
Additions during the year ............................................................. 100,819 110,711 154 351 
Released in the year ...................................................................... (56,301) (55,419) (883) (1,181)
Forfeited in the year ...................................................................... (11,369) (10,518) (3,696) (2,105)
Outstanding at 31 December ........................................................ 262,241 229,092 – 4,425 
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (US$) ................  10.11  10.50  –   – 
1 Additions during the year comprised reinvested dividend equivalents. The last award of performance shares was made in 2008, and 
shares under the plan were released in March 2011. 
HSBC Share Option Plans 
Main plans  Policy  Purpose 
Savings-
related share 
option plans 
 • Exercisable within three months following the first 
anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings 
contract or within six months following either the third or 
fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or 
five-year contracts, respectively 
• The exercise price is set at a 20% (2010: 20%) discount to 
the market value immediately preceding the date of 
invitation (except for the one-year options granted under 
the US sub-plan where a 15% discount is applied) 
 • Eligible employees save up to £250 per month (or its 
equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros), 
with the option to use the savings to acquire shares 
• To align the interests of all employees with the creation of 
shareholder value 
HSBC 
Holdings 
Group share 
option plan 
 • Plan ceased in May 2005 
• Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the 
date of grant 
 • Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and 2005 during 
which certain HSBC employees were awarded share 
options 
The table on page 329 shows the movement on HSBC share option plans during the year. 
Calculation of fair values 
Fair values of share options, measured at the date of grant of the option, are calculated using a Black-Scholes 
model. The fair values of share awards are based on the share price at the date of the grant. The fair values of 
share options calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the 
limitations of the model used.   
 
329 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted 
 Savings-related share option plans 
  1-year plan  3-year plans   5-year plans 
2011     
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) .........................................................................................  0.8  1.7   2.5 
Expected life (years) ...................................................................................................  1  3   5 
Expected volatility
2
 (%) ..............................................................................................  25  25   25 
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................  6.37  6.37   6.37 
2010     
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) .........................................................................................  0.7  1.9   2.9 
Expected life (years) ...................................................................................................  1  3   5 
Expected volatility
2
 (%) ..............................................................................................  30  30   30 
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................  6.82  6.82   6.82 
2009     
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) .........................................................................................  0.7  2.1   2.4 
Expected life (years) ...................................................................................................  1  3   5 
Expected volatility
2
 (%) ..............................................................................................  50  35   30 
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................  4.65  4.65   4.65 
1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve. A similar yield curve was used for the International Savings-Related 
Share Option Plans. 
2 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded 
options over HSBC shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options. 
The expected US dollar denominated dividend yield was determined to be 4.5% per annum in line with consensus 
analyst forecasts (2010: 4.5%; 2009: 4.5%). 
HSBC subsidiary company share option plans 
There are a number of employee share option plans relating to HSBC France, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank 
Bermuda as a result of the acquisition of these entities.  
Options granted prior to public announcement of the acquisitions, vested on acquisition and are not included in the 
table below. HSBC France and HSBC Finance granted share options after announcement of the acquisition which 
vested in subsequent years. Of these, as at 31 December 2011, only 2.4m HSBC Finance options (2010: 2.4m) 
remained outstanding and are included in the table below. Full details of all options outstanding under these plans can 
be found in Note 39. 
Movement on HSBC share option plans 
 
Savings-related share 
option plans 
HSBC Holdings Group 
share option plan  
HSBC Finance share 
option plan 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £ 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1 
 £  
 Number 
 (000s)  
 WAEP
1
 US$ 
2011       
Outstanding at 1 January ....................................................... 157,855  3.87 152,758  7.12 2,429 9.29 
Granted during the year
2
 ........................................................ 23,199  5.11 –  – – – 
Exercised during the year
3
 ..................................................... (7,439) 5.27 (646) 6.06 – – 
Expired during the year ......................................................... (20,150) 4.71 (31,320) 7.56 – – 
Outstanding at 31 December ................................................. 153,465  3.80 120,792  7.02 2,429 9.29 
At 31 December 2011       
Exercise price range (£):       
 3.00 – 4.50 ......................................................................... 117,387  –  –  
 4.51 – 6.00 ......................................................................... 32,778  –  –  
 6.01 – 7.50 ......................................................................... 2,341  115,901  –  
 7.51 – 9.29 ......................................................................... 959  4,891  2,429  
Of which exercisable ............................................................. 3,209  120,792  2,429  
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) ........... 2.04  1.66  0.89   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
9 – Share-based payments / 10 – T ax 
 
 
330 
 
Savings-related share 
option plans 
HSBC Holdings Group 
share option plan  
HSBC Finance share 
option plan
 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £ 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1 
 £  
 Number 
 (000s)  
 WAEP
1
 US$ 
2010       
Outstanding at 1 January .......................................................172,526 3.69157,719 7.12 2,736 9.29
Granted during the year
2
 ........................................................ 22,017 5.39 – – – – 
Exercised during the year
3
 ..................................................... (16,830) 4.18 (1,015) 6.08 (307) 9.29
Expired during the year ......................................................... (19,858) 4.44(3,946) 7.36 – – 
Outstanding at 31 December .................................................157,855 3.87152,758 7.12 2,429 9.29
       
At 31 December 2010       
Exercise price range (£):       
 3.00 – 4.50 ..........................................................................126,198  –  –  
 4.51 – 6.00 ..........................................................................26,036  –  –  
 6.01 – 7.50 ..........................................................................3,864  119,439  –  
 7.51 – 9.29 .......................................................................... 1,757  33,319  2,429  
Of which exercisable ............................................................. 1,883  152,758  2,429  
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) ........... 2.76   2.33   1.89   
1 Weighted Average Exercise Price. 
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$2.11 (2010: US$2.41). 
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$8.65 (2010: US$10.08) and US$9.51 (2010: US$10.26) 
for the Savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan respectively. 
10 Tax 
Tax charged to the income statement 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Current tax    
UK corporation tax ....................................................................................................... 820 383 206 
   – for this year ............................................................................................................. 462 404 280
   – adjustments in respect of prior years ...................................................................... 358 (21) (74)
Overseas tax
1
 ................................................................................................................ 4,255 3,328 1,847 
   – for this year ............................................................................................................. 4,155 3,235 1,826
   – adjustments in respect of prior years ...................................................................... 100 93 21
 5,075 3,711 2,053 
Deferred tax .................................................................................................................. (1,147) 1,135 (1,668)
   Origination and reversal of temporary differences ................................................... (1,178) 1,176 (1,672)
   Effect of changes in tax rates .................................................................................... (3) 31 (10)
   Adjustments in respect of prior years ........................................................................ 34 (72) 14
Total tax charged to the income statement.................................................................... 3,928 4,846 385 
1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$997m (2010: US$962m; 2009 US$783m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the 
profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2010: 16.5%; 2009: 16.5%). Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas 
branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate. 
   
 
331 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Tax reconciliation 
The tax charged to the income statement differs to the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the 
UK corporation tax rate as follows: 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m  % US$m  % US$m  % 
Profit before tax.................................................................. 21,872  19,037  7,079  
Tax at 26.5% (2010: 28%; 2009: 28%) ............................. 5,796  26.5 5,330  28.0 1,982  28.0 
Impact of differently taxed overseas profits ...................... (492) (2.2) (744) (3.9) (1,345) (19.0)
Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities .............. 495  2.3 –  – (39) (0.6)
Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised/ 
(previously not recognised) ........................................... (923) (4.2) (6) – 360  5.1 
Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures .............. (865) (4.0) (758) (4.0) (499) (7.1)
Tax impact of intra-group transfer of subsidiary .............. – – – 1,216  6.4 –  – 
Non taxable income and gains ........................................... (613) (2.8) (700) (3.7) (603) (8.6)
Permanent disallowables ................................................... 467  2.1 355  1.9 223  3.2 
Change in tax rates ............................................................ (3) – 31  0.2 (10) (0.1)
Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes ......................... 267  1.2 224  1.2 353  4.9 
Other items (including low income housing tax credits) .. (201) (0.9) (102) (0.6) (37) (0.4)
Total tax charged to the income statement ........................ 3,928  18.0 4,846  25.5 385  5.4 
 
The effective tax rate for the year was 18.0% compared with 25.5% for 2010. Although the reported profit before tax 
was higher in 2011, the tax charge for the year was US$0.9bn lower than in 2010. The tax charge in 2011 included 
the benefit of deferred tax of US$0.9bn now eligible to be recognised in respect of foreign tax credits, while the tax 
charge in 2010 included US$1.2bn attributable to a gain arising from an internal reorganisation of our North 
American operations.  
The UK corporation tax rate applying to HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries was 26.5% (2010: 28%; 2009: 28%).  
The UK Government announced that the main rate of corporation tax for the year beginning 1 April 2011 will reduce 
from 28% to 26% to be followed by further 1% reductions per annum to 23% for the year beginning 1 April 2014. 
While the reductions in the corporate tax rate to 25% have already been enacted, the further announced reductions are 
expected to be enacted through the 2012 and 2013 Finance Acts. The reduction in the main rate of corporation tax in 
2011 results in a weighted average rate of 26.5% (2010: 28%). It is not expected that the proposed future rate 
reductions will have a significant effect on the net UK deferred tax liability at 31 December 2011 of US$239m. 
The Group’s legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the 
Group operates. The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided 
depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters. A substantial proportion of the material open issues relate to the 
UK of which the principal matter concerns the application of the UK Controlled Foreign Company (‘CFC’) rules. 
Since it moved its holding company to the UK, HSBC has held the shares in its Asian and certain European 
subsidiaries under Dutch resident and incorporated holding companies. HSBC considers that the holding companies’ 
income (principally dividends received from the subsidiaries) should not be subject to UK tax. Her Majesty’s 
Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) interpret UK CFC and established EU law in a manner which would result in tax 
being due for the period 2002-2009. In the event of an adverse outcome from our ongoing discussions with HMRC 
on the CFC and other open UK issues the tax payable and financial impact could be as high as US$4.9bn, plus related 
interest expense. HSBC continues to discuss these matters with HMRC. 
Deferred taxation 
The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related 
amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity. 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are 
presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle 
on a net basis. 
   
 
 
332 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
10 – Tax 
 
Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting balances within countries  
Retirement 
benefits 
Loan 
impairment 
provisions 
Unused tax 
losses and 
tax credits 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
Available- 
for-sale 
investments 
Cash flow 
hedges 
Share- 
based 
payments 
Assets 
leased to 
customers 
Revaluation
of property Fee income Other Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011             
Assets .......................................................... 1,538 4,799 351 109 11 352 241 – – – 957 8,358 
Liabilities .................................................... – – (3) (126) (135) (88) – (707) (225) (756) (400) (2,440) 
At 1 January 2011 ...................................... 1,538 4,799 348 (17) (124) 264 241 (707) (225) (756) 557 5,918 
Acquisitions and disposals ......................... 3 – 11 – (3) (5) 1 – 22 – (6) 23 
Income statement ........................................ (437) (224) 945 137 10 14 1 93 (36) 17 627 1,147 
Other comprehensive income ..................... (322) – – – (533) 53 – – – – – (802) 
Equity ......................................................... – – – – – – 27 – – – – 27 
Foreign exchange and other adjustments ... (147) (127) 24 (3) 93 24 16 33 12 2 (32) (105) 
At 31 December 2011 ............................... 635 4,448 1,328 117 (557) 350 286 (581) (227) (737) 1,146 6,208 
Assets .......................................................... 742 4,448 1,328 117 – 487 286 14 – – 1,709 9,131 
Liabilities .................................................... (107) – – – (557) (137) – (595) (227) (737) (563) (2,923) 
2010             
Assets .......................................................... 1,772 6,363 407 215 68 229 196 – – – 1,535 10,785 
Liabilities .................................................... – – – (129) (340) (91) – (1,121) (399) (1,080) (842) (4,002) 
At 1 January 2010 ...................................... 1,772 6,363 407 86 (272) 138 196 (1,121) (399) (1,080) 693 6,783 
Acquisitions and disposals ......................... – 8 – – 12 (2) – – – – (16) 2 
Income statement ........................................ (468) (1,702) (70) 14 (16) 3 50 250 75 386 343 (1,135) 
Other comprehensive income ..................... (1) – – – (73) 70 – – – – – (4) 
Equity ......................................................... – – – – – – (14) – – – – (14) 
Foreign exchange and other adjustments ... 235 130 11 (117) 225 55 9 164 99 (62) (463) 286 
At 31 December 2010 ................................ 1,538 4,799 348 (17) (124) 264 241 (707) (225) (756) 557 5,918 
Assets .......................................................... 1,538 4,799 351 109 11 352 241 – – – 957 8,358 
Liabilities .................................................... – – (3) (126) (135) (88) – (707) (225) (756) (400) (2,440) 
   
 
333 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
US 
Of the total net deferred tax assets of US$6.2bn at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$5.9bn), the net deferred tax asset 
relating to HSBC’s operations in the US is US$5.2bn (2010: US$4.0bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total 
reflect the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits (US$1.2bn; 2010: US$0.2bn), deductible temporary differences 
in respect of loan impairment allowances (US$2.7bn; 2010: US$3.0bn) and other temporary differences (US$1.3bn; 
2010: US$0.8bn).  
Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in 
the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount 
of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. On the 
evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC 
Holdings’ commitment to continue to invest sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is 
expected there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets. Management 
projections of profits from the US operations are prepared for a 10 year period and include assumptions about future 
house prices and US economic conditions, including unemployment levels. The proposed sale of both the Group’s 
US credit card and private label credit card business and upstate New York branches announced in the second half of 
2011 has been taken into account but even if the transactions failed to complete, this would not change management’s 
view that the business will generate sufficient profits to realise these assets. 
Management projections of profits from the US operations currently indicate that the existing carry forward tax 
losses and tax credits will be fully recovered by 2014. The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan 
impairment allowances is projected to reduce over the 10 year period in line with the reduction of the Consumer 
Lending portfolio. 
As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBC’s US operations, management’s analysis of the recognition of 
these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies to a 
greater extent on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies implemented in relation to 
such support. The principal strategy is the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements. 
Brazil 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Brazil is US$0.7bn (2010: US$0.8bn). The deferred tax 
assets included in this total arise primarily in relation to deductible temporary differences in respect of loan 
impairment allowances. Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur in periods 
subsequent to those in which they are recognised for accounting purposes and, as a result, the amount of the 
associated deferred tax assets will move in line with the impairment allowance balance.   
Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within 24 months of accounting recognition. 
On the evidence available, including historic levels of profitability, management projections of income and the state 
of the Brazilian economy, it is anticipated there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise 
these assets when deductible for tax purposes. 
There are no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
Brazil. 
Mexico 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Mexico is US$0.5bn (2010: US$0.6bn). The deferred tax 
assets included in this total relate primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions 
for impaired loans, including losses realised on sales of impaired loans. The annual deduction for loan impairments is 
capped under Mexican legislation at 2.5% of the average qualifying loan portfolio. The balance is carried forward to 
future years without expiry but with annual deduction subject to the 2.5% cap. 
On the evidence available, including historic and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and 
profitability, it is anticipated that the business will realise these assets within the next 15 years. The projections 
assume that loan impairment rates will, over the medium term, return to and remain at levels consistently below the 
annual 2.5% cap. 
There are no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
Mexico.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
10 – T ax / 11 – Dividends / 12 – Earnings per share 
 
 
334 
Unrecognised deferred tax 
The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the balance sheet is US$14.7bn (2010: US$15.3bn). These amounts include unused state losses arising in our US 
operations of US$12.5bn (2010 US$12.5bn). 
Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$2.4bn (2010: US$2.6bn) has no expiry date, US$0.1bn (2010: US$0.1bn) is 
scheduled to expire within 10 years (2010: 10 years) and the remaining will expire after 10 years. 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or 
other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined 
that no additional tax will arise. No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2011 and 2010 
temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income 
taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse. Deferred tax of US$0.2bn (2010: US$0.1bn) 
has however been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract 
withholding tax. 
HSBC Holdings 
 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
  2011   2010 
  US$m   US$m 
Temporary differences:   
– short-term timing differences ............................................................................................................ – 1 
– available-for-sale investments ........................................................................................................... (4) (21)
– fair valued assets and liabilities ........................................................................................................ 46 61 
– share-based payments ........................................................................................................................ 9 16 
– unused tax losses ............................................................................................................................... 40 – 
 91 57 
It is expected that the unused tax losses of HSBC Holdings will be recovered against other taxable profits arising in 
the UK within 12 months. 
11 Dividends 
Dividends to shareholders of the parent company  
2011 2010 2009 
 
 Per 
 share 
 US$ 
 Total
 US$m 
 Settled
 in scrip
 US$m 
 Per 
 share 
 US$ 
 Total
 US$m 
 Settled 
 in scrip 
 US$m  
 Per  
 share 
 US$  
 Total 
 US$m 
 Settled
 in scrip
 US$m 
Dividends declared on ordinary shares            
In respect of previous year:            
– fourth interim dividend .......................  0.12 2,119 1,130  0.10 1,733 838   0.10  1,210 624 
In respect of current year:            
– first interim dividend ...........................  0.09 1,601 204  0.08 1,394 746   0.08  1,384 190 
– second interim dividend ......................  0.09 1,603 178  0.08 1,402 735   0.08  1,385 696 
– third interim dividend ..........................  0.09 1,605 720  0.08 1,408 205   0.08  1,391 160 
  0.39 6,928 2,232  0.34 5,937 2,524   0.34  5,370 1,670 
Quarterly dividends on preference  
shares classified as equity            
March dividend ...........................................  15.50 22   15.50 22    15.50  22  
June dividend ..............................................  15.50 23   15.50 23    15.50  23  
September dividend ....................................  15.50 22   15.50 22    15.50  22  
December dividend .....................................  15.50 23   15.50 23    15.50  23  
  62.00 90   62.00 90    62.00  90  
   
 
335 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Quarterly coupons on capital securities classified as equity
1
 
2011 2010 2009 
 Per share  Total  Per share  Total  Per share    Total 
  US$  US$m  US$  US$m  US$   US$m 
January coupon ....................................  0.508  44  0.508  44  0.508   44 
March coupon ......................................  0.500  76  –  –  –   – 
April coupon ........................................  0.508  45  0.508  45  0.508   45 
June coupon .........................................  0.500  76  –  –  –   – 
July coupon ..........................................  0.508  45  0.508  45  0.508   45 
September coupon ...............................  0.500  76  0.450  68  –   – 
October coupon ....................................  0.508  45  0.508  45  0.508   45 
December coupon ................................  0.500  76  0.500  76  –   – 
  4.032  483  2.982  323  2.032   179 
1 HSBC Holdings issued Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities of US$3,800m in June 2010 and US$2,200m in April 2008, which are 
classified as equity under IFRSs. 
The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 
31 December 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$2,515m. The fourth interim 
dividend will be payable on 2 May 2012 to holders of record on 15 March 2012 on the Hong Kong Overseas Branch 
Register and 16 March 2012 on the Principal Register in the UK or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register. No 
liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2011. 
On 17 January 2012, HSBC paid a further coupon on the capital securities of US$0.508 per security, a distribution of 
US$44m. No liability is recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 in respect of this coupon payment. 
12 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. Diluted 
earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects 
of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own 
shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive 
potential ordinary shares. 
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company ......................................... 16,797 13,159 5,834 
Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity ...................................... (90) (90) (90)
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity ......................................... (483) (323) (179)
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company ..................... 16,224 12,746 5,565 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
2011 2010 2009 
 Profit 
 US$m 
 Number 
of shares 
(millions)
 Per 
 share
 US$ 
 Profit 
 US$m 
 Number 
 of shares 
(millions)
 Per 
 share
 US$  
 Profit 
 US$m  
 Number 
 of shares 
(millions) 
 Per 
 share
 US$ 
Basic
1
 ........................................................... 16,224 17,700  0.92 12,746 17,404  0.73  5,565 16,277  0.34 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares ....  222    229    143  
–  Savings-related Share Option Plan .....  45   55    26  
– Other plans ..........................................  177   174    117  
Diluted
1
 ........................................................ 16,224 17,922  0.91 12,746 17,633  0.72  5,565 16,420  0.34 
1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted). 
The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excludes 151m employee share options that were 
anti-dilutive (2010: 150m; 2009: 214m).   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Segmental analysis 
 
 
336 
13 Segmental analysis 
HSBC’s operating segments are organised into six geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, 
Middle East and North Africa (‘MENA’), North America and Latin America.  
Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the 
location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. 
HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which operates as a general 
management committee under the direct authority of the Board. Information provided to HSBC’s chief operating 
decision-maker to make decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, operating 
segments is measured in accordance with IFRSs. The financial information shown below includes the effects of intra-
HSBC transactions between operating segments which are conducted on an arm’s length basis and eliminated in a 
separate column. Shared costs are included in operating segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. 
Products and services 
HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its six 
geographical regions. The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business.  
• Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’) offers a broad range of products and services to meet the 
personal banking, consumer finance and wealth management needs of individual customers. Typically, customer 
offerings include personal banking products (current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit 
cards, debit cards and local and international payment services) and wealth management services (insurance and 
investment products, global asset management services and financial planning services). 
• Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) product offerings include the provision of receivables financing services, 
payments and cash management, international trade finance, treasury and capital markets, commercial cards, 
insurance, cash and derivatives in foreign exchange and rates, and online and direct banking offerings. 
• Global Banking and Markets (‘GB&M’) provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate 
and institutional clients and private investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of 
banking capabilities including financing, advisory and transaction services; a markets business that provides 
services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, money markets and securities services; and principal investment 
activities. 
• Global Private Banking (‘GPB’) provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with 
complex and international needs. 
With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from Global Banking and 
Markets to Retail Banking and Wealth Management. 
Financial information 
In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders’ funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that 
these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.   
 
337 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
  Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011         
Net interest income ............................... 11,001 4,691 5,102 1,432 11,480 6,956 – 40,662 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,236 3,097 2,111 627 3,308 1,781 – 17,160 
Net trading income/(expense) ............... 2,161 1,189 1,658 482 (362) 1,378 – 6,506 
Other income ........................................ 4,848 1,705 1,842 66 1,574 1,338 (3,421) 7,952 
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 24,246 10,682 10,713 2,607 16,000 11,453 (3,421) 72,280 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (2,512) (156) (267) (293) (7,016) (1,883) – (12,127)
Net operating income ............................ 21,734 10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570 (3,421) 60,153 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (7,621) (2,610) (3,179) (659) (3,928) (3,169)  –  (21,166)
General and administrative expenses ... (8,473) (1,724) (2,378) (458) (4,404) (3,443)  3,421  (17,459)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (581) (245) (198) (36) (261) (249)  –  (1,570)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (394) (179) (51) (6) (326) (394)  –  (1,350)
Total operating expenses ...................... (17,069) (4,758) (5,806) (1,159) (8,919) (7,255) 3,421 (41,545)
Operating profit/(loss) .......................... 4,665 5,768 4,640 1,155 65 2,315 – 18,608 
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures ............................................ 6 55 2,831 337 35 – – 3,264 
Profit before tax .................................... 4,671 5,823 7,471 1,492 100 2,315 – 21,872 
Tax expense .......................................... (1,589) (1,043) (1,315) (266) 958 (673) – (3,928)
Profit for the year .................................. 3,082 4,780 6,156 1,226 1,058 1,642 – 17,944 
         
2010         
Net interest income ............................... 11,250 4,246 3,828 1,367 12,439 6,311 – 39,441 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,371 2,962 1,932 677 3,664 1,749 – 17,355 
Net trading income ............................... 2,863 1,312 1,618 370 314 733 – 7,210 
Other income/(expense) ........................ 2,266 1,682 1,854 (4) 630 938 (3,125) 4,241 
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 22,750 10,202 9,232 2,410 17,047 9,731 (3,125) 68,247 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (3,020) (114) (439) (627) (8,295)(1,544) – (14,039)
Net operating income ............................ 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125) 54,208 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (7,875) (2,341) (2,719) (579) (3,672) (2,650)  –  (19,836)
General and administrative expenses ... (6,499) (1,686) (2,181) (450) (4,179) (3,286)  3,125  (15,156)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (719) (237) (189) (42) (288) (238)  –  (1,713)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (352) (167) (54) (7) (183) (220)  –  (983)
Total operating expenses ...................... (15,445) (4,431) (5,143) (1,078) (8,322) (6,394) 3,125 (37,688)
Operating profit .................................... 4,285 5,657 3,650 705 430 1,793 – 16,520 
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures ............................................ 17 35 2,252 187 24 2 – 2,517 
Profit before tax .................................... 4,302 5,692 5,902 892 454 1,795 – 19,037 
Tax expense .......................................... (1,006) (987) (962) (138) (1,180) (573) – (4,846)
Profit/(loss) for the year ........................ 3,296 4,705 4,940 754 (726) 1,222 – 14,191 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Segmental analysis 
 
 
338 
Profit/(loss) for the year (continued) 
  Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2009         
Net interest income ............................... 12,268 4,195 3,539 1,485 13,670 5,573 – 40,730 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,267 2,669 1,557 625 4,817 1,729 – 17,664 
Net trading income ............................... 5,459 1,225 1,606 394 331 848 – 9,863 
Other income/(expense) ........................ (450) 1,378 1,301 90 (2,513) 874 (2,756) (2,076)
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 23,544 9,467 8,003 2,594 16,305 9,024 (2,756) 66,181 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (5,568) (500) (896) (1,334) (15,664) (2,526) – (26,488)
Net operating income ............................ 17,976 8,967 7,107 1,260 641 6,498 (2,756) 39,693 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (7,174) (2,102) (2,363) (545) (4,085) (2,199)  –  (18,468)
General and administrative expenses ... (5,775) (1,502) (1,872) (419) (3,794) (2,786)  2,756  (13,392)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (762) (224) (172) (31) (329) (207)  –  (1,725)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (277) (118) (43) (6) (183) (183)  –  (810)
Total operating expenses ...................... (13,988) (3,946) (4,450) (1,001) (8,391) (5,375) 2,756 (34,395)
Operating profit/(loss) .......................... 3,988 5,021 2,657 259 (7,750) 1,123 – 5,298 
Share of profit in associates and  
joint ventures .................................... 21 8 1,543 196 12 1 – 1,781 
Profit/(loss) before tax .......................... 4,009 5,029 4,200 455 (7,738) 1,124 – 7,079 
Tax expense .......................................... (776) (869) (753) (94) 2,285 (178) – (385)
Profit/(loss) for the year ........................ 3,233 4,160 3,447 361 (5,453) 946 – 6,694 
1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.   
 
339 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other information about the profit/(loss) for the year 
  Europe  
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011         
Net operating income .................. 21,734  10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570  (3,421) 60,153 
External .................................. 20,676  9,442 9,396 2,316 8,744 9,579   – 60,153 
Inter-segment .......................... 1,058  1,084 1,050 (2) 240 (9)  (3,421) –
Profit for the year includes the 
following significant  
non-cash items:    
 
    
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment ................... 975 424 249 42 802 643 – 3,135 
Loan impairment losses gross 
of recoveries and other 
credit risk provisions .......... 3,085 202 453 395 7,147 2,271 – 13,553 
Impairment of financial 
investments ......................... 705 55 25 13 9 1 – 808 
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives .............................. 3,180 – 4 10 967 – – 4,161 
Restructuring costs ..................... 357 47 34 27 73 259 – 797 
         
2010         
Net operating income .................. 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125) 54,208 
External .................................. 18,881  9,170 7,728 1,774 8,504 8,151   – 54,208 
Inter-segment .......................... 849  918 1,065 9 248 36   (3,125) –
Profit/(loss) for the year includes 
the following significant  
non-cash items:    
 
    
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment ................... 1,071  404 243 49 576 458  – 2,801 
Loan impairment losses gross 
of recoveries and other 
credit risk provisions .......... 3,303  169 615 684 8,476 1,812  – 15,059 
Impairment of financial 
investments ......................... 33  41 4 5 21 1  – 105 
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives .............................. (365) (2) (2) – 111 – – (258)
Restructuring costs ..................... 86 15 36 5 13 3 – 158 
         
2009         
Net operating income .................. 17,976  8,967 7,107 1,260 641 6,498  (2,756) 39,693 
External .................................. 16,734  8,352 6,056 1,283 767 6,501   – 39,693 
Inter-segment .......................... 1,242  615 1,051 (23) (126) (3)  (2,756) –
Profit/(loss) for the year includes 
the following significant  
non-cash items:    
 
    
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment ................... 1,039  342 215 37 515 390  – 2,538 
Loan impairment losses gross 
of recoveries and other 
credit risk provisions .......... 5,833  534 1,028 1,361 15,757 2,865  – 27,378 
Impairment of financial 
investments ......................... 137  129 50 4 38 –  – 358 
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives .............................. (2,746) (3) (1) – (3,497) – – (6,247)
Restructuring costs ..................... 79 7 42 2 153 17 – 300 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Segmental analysis / 14 – Analysis of financial assets and liabilities 
 
 
340 
Balance sheet information 
  Europe  
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011         
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 – 940,429 
Interests in associates and  
joint ventures .......................... 150 196 17,916 2,036 101 – – 20,399 
Total assets .................................. 1,281,945 473,024 317,816 57,464 504,302 144,889 (223,861) 2,555,579 
Customer accounts ...................... 493,404 315,345 174,012 36,422 155,982 78,760 – 1,253,925 
Total liabilities ............................ 1,224,386 458,179 288,485 49,005 464,990 128,302 (223,861) 2,389,486 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 ..... 1,177 432 207 29 342 951 – 3,138 
At 31 December 2010         
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 435,799 140,691 108,731 24,626 190,532 57,987 – 958,366 
Interests in associates and  
joint ventures .......................... 186 207 15,035 1,661 104 5 – 17,198 
Total assets .................................. 1,249,527 429,565 278,062 52,757 492,487 139,938 (187,647) 2,454,689 
Customer accounts ...................... 491,563 297,484 158,155 33,511 158,486 88,526 – 1,227,725 
Total liabilities ............................ 1,189,996 422,101 246,989 45,379 459,301 123,655 (187,647) 2,299,774 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 ..... 865 836 168 46 774 788 – 3,477 
At 31 December 2009         
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 439,481 99,381 80,043 22,844 206,853 47,629 – 896,231 
Interests in associates and  
joint ventures .......................... 147 157 11,083 1,573 42 9 – 13,011 
Total assets .................................. 1,268,600 399,243 222,139 48,107 475,014 115,967 (164,618) 2,364,452 
Customer accounts ...................... 495,019 275,441 133,999 32,529 149,157 72,889 – 1,159,034 
Total liabilities ............................ 1,213,907 384,912 203,243 42,325 447,530 101,492 (164,618) 2,228,791 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 ..... 983 290 159 102 658 540 – 2,732 
1 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. Excludes assets acquired as part of business 
combinations and goodwill.   
341 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other financial information 
Net operating income by global business 
 RBWM
1
  CMB  GB&M
1
 GPB  Other
2
 
 
 Intra-
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011        
Net operating income ................... 24,214 13,873 16,073 3,206 9,145 (6,358) 60,153 
External ................................... 22,705  13,624 18,897 2,121 2,806 – 60,153
Internal ..................................... 1,509  249 (2,824) 1,085 6,339 (6,358) –
2010        
Net operating income ................... 22,352 12,029 17,922 3,105 4,663 (5,863) 54,208 
External ................................... 20,797  11,419 20,822 2,194 (1,024) – 54,208
Internal ..................................... 1,555  610 (2,900) 911 5,687 (5,863) –
2009        
Net operating income ................... 16,395  9,571 17,770 2,984 (2,031) (4,996) 39,693 
External ................................... 14,847   9,285 20,340 2,275 (7,054) – 39,693 
Internal ..................................... 1,548   286 (2,570) 709 5,023  (4,996) –
1 With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from GB&M to RBWM. This resulted in a 
reallocation between the two of US$1,035m and US$882m in net operating income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The numbers have 
been adjusted accordingly. 
2 The main items reported in the ‘Other’ category are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held 
investment companies, movements in fair value of own debt and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The ‘Other’ 
category also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units. 
Information by country 
 2011 2010 
 
2009 
 
External net 
 operating
  income
1
 Non-
 current
 assets
2
 External net 
 operating 
 income
1
 Non- 
 current 
 assets
2
 
 
 External net 
 operating 
 income
1
 
  Non-
 current 
 assets
2
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
UK ....................................................................... 13,940 21,414 11,467 19,661 9,958  19,704 
Hong Kong ......................................................... 9,442 6,257 9,170 4,630 8,352  3,374 
USA .................................................................... 6,193 3,830 6,098 6,669 (1,042) 5,499 
France ................................................................. 2,570 10,790 3,185 10,914 3,322  11,782 
Brazil ................................................................... 5,282 2,149 4,506 2,025 3,368  1,868 
Other countries ................................................... 22,726 31,590 19,782 29,747 15,735  25,557 
 60,153 76,030 54,208 73,646 39,693  67,784 
1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or 
advancing the funds. 
2 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures 
and certain other assets expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. 
14 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost. The 
summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, 
and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the 
carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading.   
 
 
342 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
14 – Analysis of financial assets and liabilities  
 
HSBC  
 At 31 December 2011 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
at fair value 
 Held-to-
 maturity 
 securities 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities 
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
as fair value 
 hedging 
 instruments 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as cash flow 
 hedging 
 instruments  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets         
Cash and balances at central banks .................................................................................. – – – – 129,902 – – 129,902 
Items in the course of collection from other banks .......................................................... – – – – 8,208 – – 8,208 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness ..................................................... – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922 
Trading assets ................................................................................................................... 330,451 – – – – – – 330,451 
Financial assets designated at fair value .......................................................................... – 30,856 – – – – – 30,856 
Derivatives ........................................................................................................................ 342,914 – – – – 446 3,019 346,379 
Loans and advances to banks ........................................................................................... – – – – 180,987 – – 180,987 
Loans and advances to customers .................................................................................... – – – – 940,429 – – 940,429 
Financial investments ....................................................................................................... – – 21,199 378,845 – – – 400,044 
Assets held for sale ........................................................................................................... 308 – – 482 37,018 – – 37,808 
Other assets ....................................................................................................................... – – – – 24,040 – – 24,040 
Accrued income ................................................................................................................ – – – – 8,951 – – 8,951 
Total financial assets ........................................................................................................ 673,673 Ŵ
§
30,856 Ŵ
§
21,199 Ŵ
§
379,327 Ŵ
§
1,350,457 Ŵ
§
446 Ŵ
§
3,019 Ŵ
§
2,458,977 
         
Financial liabilities         
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ........................................................................ – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922 
Deposits by banks ............................................................................................................. – – – – 112,822 – – 112,822 
Customer accounts ............................................................................................................ – – – – 1,253,925 – – 1,253,925 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks .......................................................... – – – – 8,745 – – 8,745 
Trading liabilities .............................................................................................................. 265,192 – – – – – – 265,192 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ..................................................................... – 85,724 – – – – – 85,724 
Derivatives ........................................................................................................................ 338,788 – – – – 4,332 2,260 345,380 
Debt securities in issue ..................................................................................................... – – – – 131,013 – – 131,013 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ...................................................................... 803 16 – – 21,181 – – 22,000 
Other liabilities ................................................................................................................. – – – – 25,911 – – 25,911 
Accruals ............................................................................................................................ – – – – 11,799 – – 11,799 
Subordinated liabilities ..................................................................................................... – – – – 30,606 – – 30,606 
Total financial liabilities ................................................................................................... 604,783 Ŵ
§
85,740 Ŵ
§
– Ŵ
§
– Ŵ
§
1,616,924 Ŵ
§
4,332 Ŵ
§
2,260 Ŵ
§
2,314,039 
   
 
 
343 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
  
 At 31 December 2010 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 Held-to-
 maturity 
 securities 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities 
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as fair value 
 hedging 
 instruments 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as cash flow 
 hedging 
 instruments  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets         
Cash and balances at central banks .................................................................................. – – – – 57,383 – – 57,383 
Items in the course of collection from other banks .......................................................... – – – – 6,072 – – 6,072 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness ..................................................... – – – – 19,057 – – 19,057 
Trading assets ...................................................................................................................385,052 – – – – – – 385,052 
Financial assets designated at fair value .......................................................................... – 37,011 – – – – – 37,011 
Derivatives ........................................................................................................................256,689 – – – – 596 3,472 260,757 
Loans and advances to banks ........................................................................................... – – – – 208,271 – – 208,271 
Loans and advances to customers .................................................................................... – – – – 958,366 – – 958,366 
Financial investments ....................................................................................................... – – 19,499 381,256 – – – 400,755 
Other assets ....................................................................................................................... – – – – 20,097 – – 20,097 
Accrued income ................................................................................................................ – – – – 10,274 – – 10,274 
Total financial assets ........................................................................................................ 641,741 37,011 19,499 381,256 1,279,520 596 3,472 2,363,095 
         
Financial liabilities         
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ........................................................................ – – – – 19,057 – – 19,057 
Deposits by banks ............................................................................................................. – – – – 110,584 – – 110,584 
Customer accounts ............................................................................................................ – – – – 1,227,725 – – 1,227,725 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks .......................................................... – – – – 6,663 – – 6,663 
Trading liabilities ..............................................................................................................300,703 – – – – – – 300,703 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ..................................................................... – 88,133 – – – – – 88,133 
Derivatives ........................................................................................................................254,416 – – – – 2,226 2,023 258,665 
Debt securities in issue ..................................................................................................... – – – – 145,401 – – 145,401 
Other liabilities ................................................................................................................. – – – – 25,533 – – 25,533 
Accruals ............................................................................................................................ – – – – 12,545 – – 12,545 
Subordinated liabilities ..................................................................................................... – – – – 33,387 – – 33,387 
Total financial liabilities ................................................................................................... 555,119 88,133 – – 1,580,895 2,226 2,023 2,228,396 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
14 – Analysis of financial assets and liabilities / 15 – T rading assets 
 
 
344 
HSBC Holdings 
 At 31 December 2011 
 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
at fair value 
 Loans and 
 receivables 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities  
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets       
Cash at bank and in hand .................................... – – – – 316 316 
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,568 – – – – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... – – 28,048 – – 28,048 
Financial investments ......................................... – – – 1,078 – 1,078 
Other assets ......................................................... – – – – 1 1 
Total financial assets .......................................... 3,568 – 28,048 1,078 317 33,011 
       
Financial liabilities       
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. – – – – 2,479 2,479 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... – 21,151 – – – 21,151 
Derivatives .......................................................... 1,067 – – – – 1,067 
Debt securities in issue ....................................... – – – – 2,613 2,613 
Other liabilities ................................................... – – – – 885 885 
Accruals .............................................................. – – – – 575 575 
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... – – – – 12,450 12,450 
Total financial liabilities ..................................... 1,067 21,151 – – 19,002 41,220 
 
 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 Loans and 
 receivables 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities  
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets       
Cash at bank and in hand .................................... – – – – 459 459 
Derivatives .......................................................... 2,327 – – – – 2,327 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... – – 21,238 – – 21,238 
Financial investments ......................................... – – – 2,025 – 2,025 
Other assets ......................................................... – – – – 1 1 
Total financial assets .......................................... 2,327 – 21,238 2,025 460 26,050 
       
Financial liabilities       
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. – – – – 2,932 2,932 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... – 16,288 – – – 16,288 
Derivatives .......................................................... 827 – – – – 827 
Debt securities in issue ....................................... – – – – 2,668 2,668 
Other liabilities ................................................... – – – – 1,216 1,216 
Accruals .............................................................. – – – – 566 566 
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... – – – – 13,313 13,313 
Total financial liabilities ..................................... 827 16,288 – – 20,695 37,810 
   
345 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
15 Trading assets 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Trading assets:   
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 235,916 284,940 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 94,535 100,112 
 330,451  385,052 
Treasury and other eligible bills ............................................................................................................... 34,309  25,620 
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 130,487  168,268 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 21,002  41,086 
Trading securities at fair value ................................................................................................................. 185,798  234,974 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 75,525 70,456 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 69,128 79,622 
 330,451 385,052 
Trading securities valued at fair value
1
 
 Fair value 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
 ............................................................................................ 15,686 20,239 
UK Government ........................................................................................................................................ 12,917 17,036 
Hong Kong Government .......................................................................................................................... 8,844 11,053 
Other government ..................................................................................................................................... 90,816 92,826 
Asset-backed securities
3
 ........................................................................................................................... 2,913 3,998 
Corporate debt and other securities .......................................................................................................... 33,620 48,736 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 21,002 41,086 
 185,798 234,974 
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$24,956m (2010: US$37,170m), of 
which US$5,269m (2010: US$8,330m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Trading securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities 
 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value at 31 December 2011     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 789 78,760 19,994 99,543 
Unlisted
2
 ....................................................................................... 33,520 51,727 1,008 86,255 
 34,309 130,487 21,002 185,798 
Fair value at 31 December 2010     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 698 113,878 40,098 154,674 
Unlisted
2
 ....................................................................................... 24,922 54,390 988 80,300 
 25,620 168,268 41,086 234,974 
1 Included within listed investments are US$2,836m (2010: US$3,254m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for which there is a 
liquid market. 
Loans and advances to banks held for trading 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Reverse repos ............................................................................................................................................ 45,490 45,771 
Settlement accounts .................................................................................................................................. 7,555 5,226 
Stock borrowing ....................................................................................................................................... 5,531 6,346 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 16,949 13,113 
 75,525 70,456  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
15 – T rading assets / 16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
346 
Loans and advances to customers held for trading 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Reverse repos ......................................................................................................................................... 34,358 46,366 
Settlement accounts ............................................................................................................................... 5,804 7,516 
Stock borrowing .................................................................................................................................... 3,928 11,161 
Other ...................................................................................................................................................... 25,038 14,579 
 69,128 79,622 
16 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. 
The use of assumptions and estimation in valuing financial instruments is described on page 40. 
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing 
parties in an arm’s length transaction. 
The following table sets out the financial instruments carried at fair value. 
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation 
  Valuation techniques  
 
Quoted
market
price
Level 1 
Using
observable
inputs
Level 2 
With 
significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
Level 3 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
31 December 2011     
Assets     
Trading assets ........................................................................ 180,043 145,628 4,780 330,451 
Financial assets designated at fair value ............................... 22,496 7,644 716 30,856 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 1,262 340,668 4,449 346,379 
Financial investments: available for sale .............................. 217,788 151,936 9,121 378,845 
Liabilities     
Trading liabilities .................................................................. 98,208 159,157 7,827 265,192 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .......................... 27,461 57,696 567 85,724 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 1,991 340,260 3,129 345,380 
     
31 December 2010     
Assets     
Trading assets ........................................................................ 224,613 154,750 5,689 385,052 
Financial assets designated at fair value ............................... 23,641 12,783 587 37,011 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 2,078 254,718 3,961 260,757 
Financial investments: available for sale .............................. 214,276 158,743 8,237 381,256 
     
Liabilities     
Trading liabilities .................................................................. 124,874 164,436 11,393 300,703 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .......................... 22,193 65,370 570 88,133 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 1,808 253,051 3,806 258,665 
The reduction in Level 1 trading assets and liabilities reflects a decline in listed equity, government and debt security 
positions and short positions. The rise in Level 2 derivative balances reflects an increase in both derivative assets and 
liabilities generally, driven by declining yield curves in the second half of 2011. 
There were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the year. An analysis of the movements of Level 3 
financial instruments is provided on page 353. 
Control framework 
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a 
function independent of the risk-taker.   
 
347 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable 
pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised. In inactive markets, direct 
observation of a traded price may not be possible. In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market 
information to validate the financial instrument’s fair value, with greater weight given to information that is 
considered to be more relevant and reliable. The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: 
• the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices; 
• the degree of similarity between financial instruments; 
• the degree of consistency between different sources; 
• the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data; 
• the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date; and 
• the manner in which the data was sourced. 
For fair values determined using a valuation model, the control framework may include, as applicable, development 
or validation by independent support functions of (i) the logic within valuation models; (ii) the inputs to those 
models; (iii) any adjustments required outside the valuation models; and (iv) where possible, model outputs. 
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are 
calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. 
The fair value governance structure is as follows:  
Finance
Responsible for determining 
fair value:
• Establishing accounting 
policies for fair value
• Establishing procedures 
governing valuation
• Ensuring compliance with 
all relevant accounting 
standards
Group Finance Director
Valuation Committees
Consist of valuation experts 
from several independent 
support functions 
(product control, market 
risk management, quantitative 
risk and valuation group 
and finance), in addition 
to senior management
Valuation Committee 
Review Group
Chaired by Global Head of 
Product Control, 
Global Markets
Consists of heads of 
Global Banking and 
Markets, finance 
and risk functions
Provides 
results
Overseen by 
and report 
all valuations 
considered
to have
material 
subjectivity
Finance
Responsible for determining 
fair value:
• Establishing accounting 
policies for fair value
• Establishing procedures 
governing valuation
• Ensuring compliance with 
all relevant accounting 
standards
Group Finance Director
Valuation Committees
Consist of valuation experts 
from several independent 
support functions 
(product control, market 
risk management, quantitative 
risk and valuation group 
and finance), in addition 
to senior management
Valuation Committee 
Review Group
Chaired by Global Head of 
Product Control, 
Global Markets
Consists of heads of 
Global Banking and 
Markets, finance 
and risk functions
Provides 
results
Overseen by 
and report 
all valuations 
considered
to have
material 
subjectivity
 
Determination of fair value  
Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: 
• Level 1 – quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active 
markets. 
• Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar 
instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and 
financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable. 
• Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation 
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market. The fair values of financial instruments 
that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued. Where a 
financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market and it is part of a portfolio, the fair value of the portfolio is 
calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price and no block discounts are applied. In the event that 
the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used.  
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such 
as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid/offer spreads. The 
bid/offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared 
with the price at which they would be willing to sell. In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction 
price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to 
measure the fair value of the instrument requires additional work during the valuation process.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
348 
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their 
valuations, including interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates. For 
collateralised counterparties and in significant major currencies, HSBC has adopted a discounting curve that reflects 
the overnight interest rate (‘OIS discounting’). Prior to 2010, in line with market practice, discount curves did not 
reflect this overnight interest rate component but were based on a term LIBOR rate. During the period, HSBC applied 
an OIS discounting curve to an expanded range of significant currencies in line with evolving market practice. The 
financial effect of this change was not significant at the time of adoption. 
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are 
valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, 
and for them, the derivation of fair value is more judgemental. An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued 
using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s 
inception profit (‘day 1 gain or loss’) or greater than 5% of the instrument’s carrying value is driven by unobservable 
inputs. ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to 
determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that 
there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for 
example, be used).  
In certain circumstances, primarily where debt is hedged with interest rate derivatives, HSBC records its own debt in 
issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned, if available. 
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for 
which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by comparison 
with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of 
applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The change in fair value of issued debt 
securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting 
date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the 
same issuer. Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a LIBOR-based discount curve. The 
difference in the valuations is attributable to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently 
across all securities. 
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are 
measured at fair value. The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC 
issues structured notes.  
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual 
life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount. 
Fair value adjustments 
Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered 
by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model. The magnitude of fair value adjustments 
depends upon many entity-specific factors, and therefore fair value adjustments may not be comparable across the 
banking industry. 
HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments 
relate to Global Banking and Markets. 
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses 
within the income statement. For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. 
Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in 
profit or loss. 
   
 
349 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments 
 At 31 December 
 2011  2010 
 US$m US$m 
Type of adjustment   
Risk-related ............................................................................................................................................... 1,899 2,171 
Bid-offer ............................................................................................................................................... 695 620
Uncertainty ........................................................................................................................................... 154 136
Credit valuation adjustment ................................................................................................................. 1,050 1,355
Other ..................................................................................................................................................... – 60
Model-related ............................................................................................................................................ 567 389 
Model limitation ................................................................................................................................... 567 383
Other ..................................................................................................................................................... – 6
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) (Note 20) .................................................................................... 200 250 
 2,666 2,810 
The most significant fair value adjustment change during 2011 related to the release of US$215m of credit valuation 
adjustments held for monoline insurers of which US$183m resulted from commutations. The commutations did not 
result in a material gain or loss. The remainder of the decrease in the credit valuation adjustment resulted from a 
variety of factors, including changes in exposure profiles and internal credit rating upgrades or downgrades across a 
wide range of counterparties. 
The increase in model limitation adjustments primarily reflects an increase in the adjustment for OIS discounting 
following the widening of OIS-Libor spreads during the second half of 2011. 
Risk-related adjustments 
Bid-offer  
IAS 39 requires that portfolios are marked at bid or offer, as appropriate. Valuation models will typically generate 
mid market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the cost that would be incurred if substantially all residual net 
portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the actual 
position.  
Uncertainty 
Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and/or the choice of model itself may be 
more subjective. In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market 
parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value 
of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt rather more conservative values for uncertain parameters 
and/or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model. 
Credit valuation adjustment 
The credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair 
value the possibility that the counterparty may default and HSBC may not receive the full market value of the 
transactions.  
Model-related adjustments 
Model limitation 
Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture 
all material market characteristics. Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may 
require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions. In these 
circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted. As model development progresses, model limitations are 
addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
350 
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) 
Inception profit adjustments are adopted where the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more 
significant unobservable inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 295. An 
analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 363. 
Credit valuation adjustment methodology 
HSBC calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each 
counterparty to which the entity has exposure. The calculation of the monoline credit valuation adjustment and 
sensitivity to different methodologies that could be applied is described on page 154. Of the total credit valuation 
adjustment at 31 December 2011 of US$1,050m (2010: US$1,355m), US$746m (2010: US$836m) relates to the 
credit valuation adjustment taken against non-monoline counterparties. The methodology for calculating the credit 
valuation adjustment for non-monoline counterparties is described below. 
HSBC calculates the credit valuation adjustment by applying the probability of default of the counterparty to the 
expected positive exposure to the counterparty, and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. 
The calculation is performed over the life of the potential exposure. 
The probability of default is based on HSBC’s internal credit rating for the counterparty, taking into account 
how credit ratings may deteriorate over the duration of the exposure through the use of historical rating transition 
matrices. For most products, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty, HSBC uses a simulation 
methodology to incorporate the range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty 
over the life of an instrument. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting 
agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty. A standard loss given default assumption of 60% is 
generally adopted. In respect of own credit risk, HSBC considers that a zero spread is appropriate and consequently 
does not adjust derivative liabilities for HSBC’s own credit risk, such an adjustment is often referred to as a ‘debit 
valuation adjustment’. 
For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or 
for derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts 
alternative methodologies. These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool 
or where such a mapping approach is not appropriate, a simplified methodology is used, generally following the same 
principles as the simulation methodology. The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of 
credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than used in the simulation methodology described 
previously. 
The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk arises where the underlying 
value of the derivative prior to any credit valuation adjustment is positively correlated to the probability of default of 
the counterparty. Where there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-
way risk within the valuation. 
HSBC includes all third-party counterparties in the credit valuation adjustment calculation and does not net credit 
valuation adjustments across HSBC Group entities. During 2011, there were no material changes made by HSBC to 
the methodologies used to calculate the credit valuation adjustment. 
Consideration of other methodologies for calculation of credit valuation adjustments 
Our credit valuation adjustment methodology, in the opinion of management, appropriately quantifies our exposure to 
counterparty risk on our OTC derivative portfolio and appropriately reflects the risk management strategy of the 
business. 
We recognise that a variety of credit valuation adjustment methodologies are adopted within the banking industry. 
Some of the key attributes that may differ between these methodologies are: 
• the PD may be calculated from historical market data, or implied from current market levels for certain 
transaction types such as CDSs, either with or without an adjusting factor; 
• some entities adopt a non-zero ‘debit valuation adjustment’ which has the effect of reducing the overall 
adjustment;  
 
351 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• differing loss assumptions in setting the level of LGD, which may utilise market recovery rates or levels set by 
regulators for capital calculation purposes; and 
• counterparty exclusions, whereby certain counterparty types (for example collateralised counterparties) are 
excluded from the calculation. 
We have estimated the impact of adopting two alternative methodologies on the level of our credit and debit 
valuation adjustments (excluding the monoline credit valuation adjustment), as follows: 
• adapting our existing methodology to utilise probabilities of default implied from credit default swaps, with no 
adjustment factor applied, and also including an adjustment to take into account HSBC’s own probability of 
default implied from credit default swaps, results in an overall adverse adjustment of US$1.4bn (2010: 
US$0.3bn); and 
• adapting our existing DVA methodology to include HSBC’s own probability of default on a basis symmetric 
with the current calculation of CVA would result in a favourable reduction of the credit risk charge of US$0.1bn 
(2010: US$0.1bn). 
Fair value valuation bases 
Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – 
Level 3 
 Assets Liabilities 
 
 Available  
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated
 at fair value 
  through 
 profit or loss Derivatives 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss 
 
Derivatives 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Private equity including strategic 
investments ................................... 4,565 88 432 – – – – 
Asset-backed securities .................... 2,584 710 – – – – – 
Loans held for securitisation ............ – 682 – – – – 7 
Structured notes ................................ – 92 – – 7,340 – – 
Derivatives with monolines .............. – – – 940 – – – 
Other derivatives ............................... – – – 3,509 – – 3,122 
Other portfolios ................................. 1,972 3,208 284 – 487 567 – 
 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 
        
At 31 December 2010        
Private equity including strategic 
investments ................................... 4,057 278 120 – – – – 
Asset-backed securities .................... 1,949 566 – – – – – 
Leveraged finance ............................. – – – – – – 11 
Loans held for securitisation ............ – 1,043 – – – – – 
Structured notes ................................ – – – – 10,667 – – 
Derivatives with monolines .............. – – – 1,005 – – – 
Other derivatives ............................... – – – 2,956 – – 3,787 
Other portfolios ................................. 2,231 3,802 467 – 726 570 8 
 8,237 5,689 587 3,961 11,393 570 3,806 
 
Private equity and strategic investments 
HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in 
active markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis 
of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to 
market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have 
changed ownership. 
Asset-backed securities 
While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are 
used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to 
quoted market prices are required. For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
352 
model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and 
performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for 
securities of a similar nature.  
Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation 
Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and/or market data consensus providers when available. In the 
absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques. These techniques include 
discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, 
derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.  
Structured notes 
The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique is derived from the fair value of the underlying 
debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below 
on derivatives. 
Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs principally comprised 
equity-linked structured notes, which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to 
the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios. The notes are classified as level 3 due to the 
unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between 
equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.  
Derivatives 
OTC (i.e. non-exchange traded) derivatives are valued using valuation models. Valuation models calculate the 
present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla derivative 
products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the 
industry. For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice. Inputs to 
valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from 
exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market 
directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical 
data or other sources. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for 
less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, 
interest rates and equity prices. The valuation of derivatives with monolines is discussed on page 154.  
Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of 
correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate 
hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions. Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and 
foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives. Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions.  
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 
financial instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs:   
 
353 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments 
 Assets Liabilities 
 
 Available  
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
profit or loss Derivatives
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated  
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss 
 
Derivatives
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
2011        
At 1 January ...................................... 8,237 5,689 587 3,961 11,393 570 3,806 
Total gains/losses recognised in  
profit or loss ................................. 222 (330) 11 767 36 8 628 
Total gains/losses recognised in other 
comprehensive income
1
 ................ (179) (12) (15) (16) 11 (11) – 
Purchases .......................................... 1,858 1,483 242 – (1,843) – – 
New issuances ................................... – – – – 4,569 – – 
Sales .................................................. (756) (2,578) (69) – – – – 
Settlements ........................................ (1,088) (199) (7) (33) (1,528) – (1,083)
Transfers out ..................................... (1,891) (569) (173) (410) (5,266) – (608)
Transfers in ....................................... 2,718 1,296 140 180 455 – 386 
At 31 December ................................ 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 
Total gains/losses recognised in profit 
or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held on 31 December: 134 (237) 36 617 101 8 80 
–  net interest income ................... 105 – – – – – –
–  trading income excluding net 
interest income ......................... – (265) – 617 119 – 80
–  net interest income on trading 
activities ................................... – 28 – – (18) – –
–  net income/expense from other 
financial instruments designated 
at fair value ............................... – – 36 – – 8 –
–  dividend income ....................... 29 – – – – – –
        
2010        
At 1 January ...................................... 10,214 6,420 1,224 4,453 8,774 507 5,192 
Total gains/losses recognised in  
profit or loss ................................. 345 158 63 (675) 166 (11) (240)
Total gains/losses recognised in other 
comprehensive income
1
 ................ 618 (101) (36) (110) (157) 74 93 
Purchases .......................................... 3,708 858 81 – (356) – – 
New issuances ................................... – – – – 4,025 – – 
Sales .................................................. (2,461) (1,543) (8) – – – – 
Settlements ........................................ (1,032) 1 (22) 64 (948) – (820)
Transfers out ..................................... (7,065) (629) (894) (669) (1,750) – (1,003)
Transfers in ....................................... 3,910 525 179 898 1,639 – 584 
At 31 December ................................ 8,237 5,689 587 3,961 11,393 570 3,806 
Total gains/losses recognised in profit 
or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held on 31 December: 113 116 17 268 180 (14) 361 
–  net interest income ................... 89 – – – – – –
–  trading income excluding net 
interest income ......................... – 98 – 268 198 – 361
–  net interest income on trading 
activities ................................... – 18 – – (18) – –
–  net income/expense from  
other financial instruments 
designated at fair value ............ – – 17 – – (14) –
–  dividend income ....................... 24 – – – – – –
1 Included in ‘Available-for-sale investments: Fair value gains/losses’ and ‘Exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
Available-for-sale securities: Transfers in and out of Level 3 relate principally to assets whose prices have been 
unobservable during the year and those whose prices have become observable, respectively. Purchases of available-
for-sale securities reflects the acquisition of corporate bonds across a range of geographies.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
354 
Trading liabilities: Transfers out of Level 3 are driven by certain equity volatilities and correlations becoming 
observable as the market continues to evolve. Settlement of trading liabilities reflect structured note maturities during 
the period, including the unwind of a large structured transaction which also impacted sales of assets held for trading. 
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives 
As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation 
techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions 
in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of 
these fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 
 Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other  
comprehensive income 
 
 Favourable
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable 
 changes 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1 
........................ 369 (436) – – 
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value ................ 72 (72) – – 
Financial investments: available for sale ..................................... – – 814 (818)
 441 (508) 814 (818)
At 31 December 2010     
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1 
........................ 554 (444) – – 
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value ................ 77 (75) – – 
Financial investments: available for sale ..................................... – – 763 (744)
 631 (519)763 (744)
1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial 
instruments are risk-managed. 
The decrease in the effect of favourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to derivatives, trading 
assets and trading liabilities during the year primarily reflects greater pricing certainty in some areas, most notably 
structured credit and structured rates either as a result of decreased exposures or enhanced analysis. Unfavourable 
changes in derivatives, trading assets and liabilities has been impacted by similar factors but these have been offset 
by an increased potential unfavourable impact on monoline exposures, driven by increasing credit default spreads 
even though exposures have reduced over the period. 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type 
 Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other 
comprehensive income 
 
 Favourable
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable 
 changes 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Private equity investments ............................................................ 123 (83) 451 (451)
Asset-backed securities ................................................................ 3 (3) 183 (175)
Loans held for securitisation ........................................................ 4 (4) – – 
Structured notes ............................................................................ 6 (6) – – 
Derivatives with monolines .......................................................... 76 (178) – – 
Other derivatives ........................................................................... 145 (154) – – 
Other portfolios ............................................................................. 84 (80) 180 (192)
 441 (508) 814 (818)  
 
355 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other 
comprehensive income 
 
 Favourable 
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable 
 changes 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2010      
Private equity investments ............................................................ 112 (71) 383 (383)
Asset-backed securities ................................................................ 8 (8) 179 (181)
Loans held for securitisation ........................................................ 8 (8) – – 
Structured notes ............................................................................ 18 (16) – – 
Derivatives with monolines .......................................................... 94 (8) – – 
Other derivatives ........................................................................... 256 (258) – – 
Other portfolios ............................................................................. 135 (150) 201 (180)
 631 (519)763 (744)
 
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result 
of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters using statistical techniques. When parameters are not amenable 
to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental. 
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table 
reflects the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually. 
In respect of private equity investments, in many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation 
multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators. This may be determined with reference to multiples for 
comparable listed companies and includes discounts for marketability. 
For ABSs, the principal assumptions in the models are based on benchmark information about prepayment speeds, 
default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets.  
For leveraged finance, loans held for securitisation and derivatives with monolines the principal assumption concerns 
the appropriate value to be attributed to the counterparty credit risk. This requires estimation of exposure at default, 
probability of default and recovery in the event of default. For loan transactions, assessment of exposure at default is 
straightforward. For derivative transactions, a future exposure profile is generated on the basis of current market data. 
Probabilities of default and recovery levels are estimated using available evidence, which may include financial 
information, historical experience, CDS spreads and consensus recovery levels. 
For structured notes and other derivatives, principal assumptions concern the value to be attributed to future volatility 
of asset values and the future correlation between asset values. These principal assumptions include credit volatilities 
and correlations used in the valuation of structured credit derivatives (including leveraged credit derivatives). For 
such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy 
method to derive a volatility or a correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, 
and/or an examination of historical levels.  
HSBC Holdings  
The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at 
fair value in the financial statements:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value / 17 – Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
 
 
356 
Bases of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
  Valuation techniques  
 
Quoted 
market
price 
Using
observable
inputs 
With  
significant 
unobservable 
inputs  
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Assets     
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 3,568 – 3,568 
Available for sale ..................................................................... – – 1,078 1,078 
Liabilities     
Designated at fair value ............................................................ 17,196 3,955 – 21,151 
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 1,067 – 1,067 
     
At 31 December 2010     
Assets     
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 2,327 – 2,327 
Available for sale ..................................................................... – – 2,025 2,025 
Liabilities     
Designated at fair value ............................................................ 12,029 4,259 – 16,288 
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 827 – 827 
 
Financial instruments measured at fair value – Level 3  
Financial investments measured using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) comprise 
fixed-rate preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings. The unobservable elements of 
the valuation technique include the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions. 
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments available for sale 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 2,025 2,455 
Total gains or losses:   
–  recognised in profit or loss ................................................................................................................... 55 (155)
–  recognised in other comprehensive income ......................................................................................... (61) (275)
Settlements ................................................................................................................................................ (941) – 
At 31 December ........................................................................................................................................ 1,078 2,025 
Total gains or losses recognised in profit or loss relating to those assets and liabilities  
held on 31 December ............................................................................................................................ 18 (1)
In certain circumstances, the fair value of financial instruments are measured using valuation models that incorporate 
assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and 
are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of non-derivative financial 
instruments to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: 
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives 
 Reflected in equity 
 
Favourable 
changes 
Unfavourable 
changes 
 US$m US$m 
Financial investments: available for sale    
At 31 December 2011 .............................................................................................................................. 69 (77)
At 31 December 2010 ............................................................................................................................... 34 (33)  
 
357 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
17 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. 
Fair values of financial instruments which are not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair 
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets     
Loans and advances to banks .................................................................... 180,987 181,302 208,271 208,311 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................. 940,429 914,485 958,366 934,444 
Financial investments: debt securities ....................................................... 21,018 22,500 19,386 20,374 
Financial investments: treasury and other eligible bills ............................ 181 181 113 113 
     
Liabilities     
Deposits by banks ...................................................................................... 112,822 112,848 110,584 110,563 
Customer accounts ..................................................................................... 1,253,925 1,254,313 1,227,725 1,227,428 
Debt securities in issue .............................................................................. 131,013 130,914 145,401 145,417 
Subordinated liabilities .............................................................................. 30,606 29,351 33,387 33,161 
Fair values of financial instruments held for sale which are not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair 
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets classified as held for sale
1
     
Loans and advances to banks and customers ........................................ 35,720 37,832 116 116 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale      
Deposits by banks .................................................................................. 206 206 – – 
Customer accounts ................................................................................ 20,138 19,130 – – 
1 Including financial instruments within disposal groups held for sale. 
The following is a list of financial instruments whose carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value 
because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: 
Assets 
Cash and balances at central banks 
Items in the course of collection from other banks 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 
Endorsements and acceptances 
Short-term receivables within ‘Other assets’ 
Accrued income 
 
Liabilities 
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features within ‘Liabilities under insurance contracts’ 
Endorsements and acceptances 
Short-term payables within ‘Other liabilities’ 
Accruals  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
17 – Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value / 18 – Reclassification of financial assets 
 
 
358 
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment 
 At 31 December 2011  At 31 December 2010 
 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair 
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to customers     
Europe ....................................................................................................... 434,336 426,039 435,799 430,333 
Hong Kong ............................................................................................... 157,665 154,054 140,691 140,699 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................. 123,868 123,662 108,731 108,582 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................. 25,875 25,758 24,626 24,539 
North America .......................................................................................... 142,747 128,608 190,532 172,522 
Latin America ........................................................................................... 55,938 56,364 57,987 57,769 
 940,429 914,485 958,366 934,444 
Valuation 
The calculation of fair value incorporates HSBC’s estimate of the amount at which financial assets could be 
exchanged, or financial liabilities settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. It 
does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments’ cash flows over 
their expected future lives. Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in 
determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available, so comparisons of fair values between 
entities may not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise caution when using this data. 
The secondary market demand for US consumer lending assets remains weak. Uncertainty over the extent and timing 
of future credit losses, together with a near absence of liquidity for non-prime ABSs and loans, continued to be 
reflected in a lack of bid prices at 31 December 2011. The estimated fair value of these receivables was determined 
by developing an approximate range of values from various sources as appropriate for the respective pools of assets. 
These sources include, internal value estimates based on over-the-counter trading activity, forward looking 
discounted cash flow models using assumptions we believe are consistent with those which would be used by market 
participants in valuing such receivables trading input from market participants and general discussions held with 
potential investors. The fair values of loans and advances to customers in the US are substantially lower than their 
carrying amount, reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date. The fair values reported do not reflect 
HSBC’s estimate of the underlying long-term value of the assets. 
There was a modest decrease year on year in the fair value of loans and advances to customers in Europe relative to 
their carrying amount which was the result of lower valuations on ABS classified as loans and receivables and on 
leveraged acquisition finance loans, reflecting widening credit spreads as a result of market disruption in Europe. 
Fair values of the assets and liabilities set out below are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as follows: 
Loans and advances to banks and customers 
The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available. In the absence of 
observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow models.  
Performing loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous pools segregated by maturity and interest rates 
and the contractual cash flows are generally discounted using HSBC’s estimate of the discount rate that a market 
participant would use in valuing instruments with similar maturity, re-pricing and credit risk characteristics.  
The fair value of a loan portfolio reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market 
participants’ expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans. For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by 
discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.    
 
359 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Financial investments 
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted 
financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future 
earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.  
Deposits by banks and customer accounts 
For the purpose of estimating fair value, deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by remaining 
contractual maturity. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for 
deposits of similar remaining maturities. The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is assumed to be the 
amount payable on demand at the balance sheet date.  
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities 
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to 
quoted market prices for similar instruments. 
The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which 
will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments. In many cases, it would not be possible to 
realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size of the portfolios measured. Accordingly, these fair values 
do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern. 
HSBC Holdings 
The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of 
measurement and disclosure are described above. 
The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the 
balance sheet: 
Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair 
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets     
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings .................................. 28,048 27,562 21,238 21,798 
     
Liabilities     
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .......................................... 2,479 2,485 2,932 2,963 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................... 2,613 2,922 2,668 2,960 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................................... 12,450 13,052 13,313 14,428 
 
18 Reclassification of financial assets 
In 2008, HSBC reclassified US$15.3bn and US$2.6bn of financial assets from the held-for-trading category to the 
loans and receivables and available-for-sale classifications, respectively, as permitted by the relevant amendment to 
IAS 39 and explained in Note 2(e) on the Financial Statements. No further reclassifications were undertaken.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
18 – Reclassification of financial assets / 19 – Financial assets designated at fair value / 20 – Derivatives 
 
 
360 
Reclassification of HSBC’s financial assets 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Carrying
 amount 
 Fair 
 value 
 Carrying 
 amount  
 Fair 
 value 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Reclassification to loans and receivables ....................................... 7,867 6,651 10,947 9,636 
Reclassification to available for sale .............................................. 33 33 91 91 
 7,900 6,684 11,038 9,727 
The following table shows the fair value gains and losses, income and expense recognised in the income statement in 
respect of reclassified assets and the gains and losses that would have been recognised if no reclassification had taken 
place. 
Effect of reclassifying and not reclassifying financial assets 
  2011  2010  2009   2008 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Reclassification to loans and receivables     
Recorded in the income statement
1
 ............................................ 318 610 977 512 
Assuming no reclassification
2
 ................................................... 317 1,260 2,276 (2,801)
Net income statement effect of reclassification ........................... 1 (650) (1,299) 3,313 
Reclassification to available for sale     
Recorded in the income statement
1
 ............................................ 1 56 101 22 
Assuming no reclassification
2
 ................................................... (2) 59 301 (202)
Net income statement effect of reclassification ........................... 3 (3) (200) 224 
1 ‘Income and expense’ recorded in the income statement represents the accrual of the effective interest rate and, for 2011, includes 
US$69m in respect of impairment (2010: US$6m; 2009: US$163m; 2008: US$26m). The effect on the income statement for 2008 shows 
the income and expense post-reclassification. In 2008 pre-reclassification, the assets were held at fair value and a loss of US$1,371m 
was recorded in the period up to reclassification. 
2 Effect on the income statement during the year had the reclassification not occurred. 
19 Financial assets designated at fair value 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Financial assets designated at fair value:   
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 30,738 36,990 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 118 21 
 30,856 37,011 
Treasury and other eligible bills ............................................................................................................... 123 159 
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 11,834 18,248 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 17,930 17,418 
Securities designated at fair value ............................................................................................................ 29,887 35,825 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 119 315 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 850 871 
 30,856 37,011   
 
361 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Securities designated at fair value
1
 
 Fair value 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
 ........................................................................................... 35 78 
UK Government ....................................................................................................................................... 812 1,304 
Hong Kong Government ......................................................................................................................... 151 151 
Other government .................................................................................................................................... 3,964 4,130 
Asset-backed securities
3
 .......................................................................................................................... 201 6,128 
Corporate debt and other securities ......................................................................................................... 6,794 6,616 
Equities .................................................................................................................................................... 17,930 17,418 
 29,887 35,825 
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$3,497m (2010: US$10,185m), of 
which US$40m (2010: US$48m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value at 31 December 2011     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 4 3,607 11,859 15,470 
Unlisted ......................................................................................... 119 8,227 6,071 14,417 
 123 11,834 17,930 29,887 
     
Fair value at 31 December 2010     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 21 4,168 12,548 16,737 
Unlisted ......................................................................................... 138 14,080 4,870 19,088 
 159 18,248 17,418 35,825 
1 Included within listed investments are US$631m of investments listed in Hong Kong (2010: US$756m). 
20 Derivatives 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC 
 Assets Liabilities 
 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Foreign exchange ................................................ 74,958 1,026 75,984 75,077 371 75,448 
Interest rate ......................................................... 510,652 2,439 513,091 502,906 6,221 509,127 
Equity .................................................................. 15,262 – 15,262 19,363 – 19,363 
Credit .................................................................. 25,694 – 25,694 25,800 – 25,800 
Commodity and other ......................................... 2,198 – 2,198 1,492 – 1,492 
Gross total fair values ......................................... 628,764 3,465 632,229 624,638 6,592 631,230 
Netting ................................................................   (285,850)  (285,850)
Total ....................................................................   346,379   345,380 
At 31 December 2010       
Foreign exchange ................................................ 65,905 1,304 67,209 67,564 340 67,904 
Interest rate ......................................................... 278,364 2,764 281,128 273,222 3,909 277,131 
Equity .................................................................. 13,983 – 13,983 14,716 – 14,716 
Credit .................................................................. 20,907 – 20,907 20,027 – 20,027 
Commodity and other ......................................... 1,261 – 1,261 2,618 – 2,618 
Gross total fair values ......................................... 380,420 4,068 384,488 378,147 4,249 382,396 
Netting ................................................................   (123,731)  (123,731)
Total ....................................................................   260,757   258,665  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
20 – Derivatives 
 
 
362 
The 33% increase in the fair value of derivative assets during 2011 was driven by increased interest rate derivative 
fair values as yield curves declined in major currencies during the second half of the year, reflecting the deteriorating 
economic outlook. This drove both the increase in gross fair values and the increase in the netting adjustment. 
 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 Trading Trading Trading Trading 
 assets liabilities assets liabilities 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 1,546 1,067 1,407 827 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 2,022 – 920 – 
 3,568 1,067 2,327 827 
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, 
bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices. Derivatives enable 
users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks. HSBC makes markets in derivatives for its 
customers and uses derivatives to manage its exposure to credit and market risks. 
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities. A 
description of how the fair value of derivatives is derived is set out on page 352. Derivative assets and liabilities on 
different transactions are only set off if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-off exists 
and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.  
Use of derivatives 
HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the 
portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks. Derivatives (except for 
derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39) are held for trading. The held 
for trading classification includes two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used 
for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting. 
The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. 
These activities are described more fully below. 
HSBC’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions are 
managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels, with matching deals being utilised to 
achieve this where necessary. When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk 
management framework to assess and approve potential credit exposures that are used for traditional lending. 
Trading derivatives 
Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring 
and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or 
expected risks. Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from 
short-term fluctuations in price or margin. Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit 
from expected changes in exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters. Trading includes 
market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other 
market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume; positioning means managing 
market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices; arbitrage 
involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products. 
As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, 
ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge 
effectiveness. Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the 
criteria for hedge accounting. These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments 
designated at fair value. 
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are reported in ‘Net trading income’, except for derivatives managed in conjunction with 
financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial   
 
363 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
instruments designated at fair value’, together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items. Where the 
derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, the contractual interest is shown in ‘interest expense’ together 
with the interest payable on the issued debt. Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with HSBC 
undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value. 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions 
outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. The 8% increase in the notional 
amounts of HSBC’s derivative assets during 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in trading volumes of 
interest rate and foreign exchange contracts. 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings 
 
At
 31 December 
2011 
At 
31 December
2010 
At 
 31 December 
2011 
At 
31 December
2010 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 3,945,774 3,692,798 18,942 17,287 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 19,788,710 18,104,141 10,954 6,804 
Equity ............................................................................................ 265,577 294,587 – – 
Credit ............................................................................................ 1,049,147 1,065,218 – – 
Commodity and other ................................................................... 76,487 82,856 – – 
 25,125,695 23,239,600 29,896 24,091 
Credit derivatives 
HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad 
range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain 
products. Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other 
counterparties. 
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related 
credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty. Trading of credit derivatives 
is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market 
skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.  
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Group’s loan portfolios. 
The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$1,049,147m (2010: US$1,065,218m) consisted 
of protection bought of US$517,737m (2010: US$530,235m) and protection sold of US$531,410m (2010: 
US$534,983m). The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described 
on pages 163 to 169. 
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs 
The difference between the fair value at initial recognition (the transaction price) and the value that would have been 
derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less 
subsequent releases, is as follows: 
Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 
  2011  2010 
 US$m US$m 
Unamortised balance at 1 January ............................................................................................................ 250 260 
Deferral on new transactions .................................................................................................................... 234 331 
Recognised in the income statement during the period:   
– amortisation ....................................................................................................................................... (143) (106)
– subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable ................................................................ (71) (17)
– maturity, termination or offsetting derivative ................................................................................... (60) (163)
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ (2) (15)
Risk hedged .............................................................................................................................................. (8) (40)
Unamortised balance at 31 December
1
 ..................................................................................................... 200 250 
1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
20 – Derivatives / 21 – Financial investments 
 
 
364 
Hedging instruments  
HSBC uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps) for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and 
liability portfolios and structural positions. This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing 
debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the 
maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.  
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type 
of hedge transactions. Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash 
flow hedges, or hedges of net investment in foreign operations. These are described under the relevant headings 
below. 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions 
outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes by product type 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 Fair value
 hedge 
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 Fair value
 hedge 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 12,078 1,363 10,599 1,392 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 228,052 76,950 282,412 62,757 
 240,130 78,313 293,011 64,149 
Fair value hedges 
HSBC’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair 
value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates. For qualifying fair 
value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk 
being hedged are recognised in the income statement. If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value 
adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income 
statement as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period. 
Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
  Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 77 1 153  – 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 369 4,331 443  2,226 
 446 4,332 596  2,226 
Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 
  2011  2010  2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Gains/(losses):    
–  on hedging instruments .......................................................................................... (4,082) (830) 114 
–  on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk ............................................... 3,858 868 (159)
 (224) 38 (45)
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. 
Cash flow hedges  
HSBC’s cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against 
exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at 
variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of future 
cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and 
liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and   
 
365 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for 
identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast 
transactions. Gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the cash 
flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income 
statement.  
Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
  Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 949 370 1,151 340 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 2,070 1,890 2,321 1,683 
 3,019 2,260 3,472 2,023 
Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 
 
 3 months
 or less 
 More than 3 
months but less 
 than 1 year 
 5 years or less 
 but more than 
 1 year 
 
 More than
 5 years 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Assets ............................................................................................ 139,701 110,960 66,383 4,460 
Liabilities ...................................................................................... (77,898) (50,480) (36,296) (4,693)
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure .......................................... 61,803 60,480 30,087 (233)
     
At 31 December 2010     
Assets ............................................................................................ 163,006 97,174 58,975 1,358 
Liabilities ...................................................................................... (89,112) (58,811) (42,259) (6,065)
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure .......................................... 73,894 38,363 16,716 (4,707)
This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items.  
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. 
During the year to 31 December 2011 a gain of US$26m (2010: loss of US$9m; 2009: gain of US$90m) was 
recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.  
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments. Hedging is undertaken using 
forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings.  
At 31 December 2011, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations were assets of US$121m (2010: nil) and liabilities of US$36m (2010: US$34m) and notional 
contract values of US$3,920m (2010: US$644m). 
The ineffectiveness recognised in ‘Net trading income’ in the year ended 31 December 2011 that arose from hedges 
in foreign operations was nil (2010 and 2009: nil). 
21 Financial investments 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Financial investments:   
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 364,906 369,597 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 35,138 31,158 
 400,044 400,755  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
21 – Financial investments  
 
 
366 
Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments 
 2011 2010 
 Carrying
amount 
Fair 
value 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Treasury and other eligible bills ..................................................... 65,223 65,223 57,129 57,129 
– available for sale .................................................................... 65,042 65,042 57,016 57,016
– held to maturity ...................................................................... 181 181 113 113
Debt securities ................................................................................ 327,611 329,093 335,643 336,632 
– available for sale .................................................................... 306,593 306,593 316,257 316,257
– held to maturity ...................................................................... 21,018 22,500 19,386 20,375
Equity securities ............................................................................. 7,210 7,210 7,983 7,983 
– available for sale .................................................................... 7,210 7,210 7,983 7,983
Total financial investments ............................................................. 400,044 401,526 400,755 401,744 
Financial investments at amortised cost
1
 and fair value
2
 
 
 Amortised
 cost  
 Fair
 value 
  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011   
US Treasury ................................................................................................................................................ 43,848 45,283 
US Government agencies
3
 .......................................................................................................................... 25,079 26,093 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ........................................................................................................... 4,425 5,056 
UK Government .......................................................................................................................................... 32,165 33,603 
Hong Kong Government ............................................................................................................................ 33,359 33,374 
Other government ....................................................................................................................................... 125,623 127,049 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ............................................................................................................................. 35,096 28,625 
Corporate debt and other securities ............................................................................................................ 94,110 95,233 
Equities ....................................................................................................................................................... 5,122 7,210 
 398,827 401,526 
At 31 December 2010   
US Treasury ................................................................................................................................................ 37,380 37,255 
US Government agencies
3
 .......................................................................................................................... 20,895 21,339 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ........................................................................................................... 5,029 5,267 
UK Government .......................................................................................................................................... 31,069 31,815 
Hong Kong Government ............................................................................................................................ 29,770 29,793 
Other government ....................................................................................................................................... 108,947 109,806 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ............................................................................................................................. 39,845 33,175 
Corporate debt and other securities ............................................................................................................ 124,704 125,311 
Equities ....................................................................................................................................................... 5,605 7,983 
 403,244 401,744 
At 31 December 2009   
US Treasury ................................................................................................................................................ 17,650 17,635 
US Government agencies
3
 .......................................................................................................................... 12,539 12,804 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ........................................................................................................... 4,885 4,924 
UK Government .......................................................................................................................................... 9,653 9,782 
Hong Kong Government ............................................................................................................................ 37,747 37,763 
Other government ....................................................................................................................................... 87,122 87,881 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ............................................................................................................................. 48,500 34,914 
Corporate debt and other securities ............................................................................................................ 153,639 154,902 
Equities ....................................................................................................................................................... 7,051 9,124 
 378,786 369,729 
1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment. 
2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$68,334m (2010: US$99,733m; 
2009: US$133,256m), of which US$17,079m (2010: US$38,862m; 2009: US$55,324m) are guaranteed by various governments. The 
fair value of the debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$68,765m (2010: US$100,070m; 2009: 
US$133,461m). 
3 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
4 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities.   
 
367 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 available
 for sale 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills
 held to 
 maturity 
 Debt
 securities
 available
 for sale 
 Debt 
 securities 
 held to  
 maturity  
 Equity 
 securities 
 available  
 for sale 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Carrying amount at 31 December 2011       
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ...................... 4,077 – 121,303 4,370 535 130,285 
Unlisted
2
 ............................................................. 60,965 181 185,290 16,648 6,675 269,759 
 65,042 181 306,593 21,018 7,210 400,044 
Carrying amount at 31 December 2010       
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ...................... 1,400 – 138,374 4,182 851 144,807 
Unlisted
2
 ............................................................. 55,616 113 177,883 15,204 7,132 255,948 
 57,016 113 316,257 19,386 7,983 400,755 
1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2011 was US$4,641m (2010: US$4,332m). Included within 
listed investments were US$3,544m (2010: US$1,902m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for 
which there is a liquid market. 
Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount 
 At 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Remaining contractual maturity of total debt securities:    
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 87,080 92,961 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 128,192 124,596 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 52,251 56,926 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 60,088 61,160 
 327,611 335,643 
Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities available for sale:    
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 85,821 91,939 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 120,763 117,931 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 44,946 50,113 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 55,063 56,274 
 306,593 316,257 
Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities held to maturity:   
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 1,259 1,022 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 7,429 6,665 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 7,305 6,813 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 5,025 4,886 
 21,018 19,386 
Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities at 31 December 2011 
 Within one year 
After one year but 
within five years 
After five years but 
within ten years  After ten years 
  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield   Amount  Yield 
  US$m  %  US$m  %  US$m  %   US$m % 
Available-for-sale          
US Treasury ............................................. 12,153 0.4 17,474 0.7 4,340 2.2   2,964 4.1 
US Government agencies ........................ 2 5.4 8 3.9 96 2.1   24,587  3.3 
US Government-sponsored agencies ....... 458 1.5 55 1.6 2,036 4.0   451  4.1 
UK Government ....................................... 3,542 4.5 15,775 1.4 9,041 2.4   618  2.2 
Hong Kong Government ......................... 895 0.3 1,558 1.2 – –  – – 
Other governments .................................. 35,273 1.9 53,418 3.3 10,805 3.6   1,884  4.4 
Asset-backed securities ........................... 427 0.5 2,133 0.5 8,501 0.4   23,869  0.3 
Corporate debt and other securities ......... 33,242 2.6 29,016 3.4 9,055 3.2   3,963  5.4 
Total amortised cost ................................. 85,992  119,437  43,874   58,336   
Total carrying value ................................. 85,821  120,763  44,946   55,063   
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
22 – T ransfers of financial assets not qualifying for derecognition / 23 – Interests in associates and joint ventures 
 
 
368 
 Within one year 
After one year but 
within five years 
After five years but 
within ten years  After ten years 
  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield   Amount  Yield 
  US$m  %  US$m  %  US$m  %   US$m % 
Held-to-maturity          
US Treasury ............................................. 11 4.1 25 4.2 65 4.8   99  5.0 
US Government agencies ........................ – – 1 7.6 5 7.7   381  6.5 
US Government-sponsored agencies ....... 5 4.7 13 7.9 2 7.0   1,406  6.2 
Hong Kong Government ......................... – – 5 0.9 10 4.1   3  1.2 
Other governments .................................. 22 4.3 486 3.7 263 4.8   468  5.2 
Asset-backed securities ........................... – – – – – –  166  6.2 
Corporate debt and other securities ......... 1,221 3.9 6,899 4.1 6,960 4.4   2,502  5.5 
Total amortised cost ................................. 1,259  7,429  7,305   5,025   
Total carrying value ................................. 1,259  7,429  7,305   5,025   
The maturity distributions of asset-backed securities are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual 
maturity dates. The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised 
interest income for the year ended 31 December 2011 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that 
date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives. 
22 Transfers of financial assets not qualifying for derecognition 
HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers recognised financial assets 
directly to third parties or to SPEs. These transfers may give rise to the full or partial derecognition of the financial 
assets concerned. 
– Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial 
assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The risks include credit, interest rate, currency, prepayment 
and other price risks.  
– Partial derecognition occurs when HSBC sells or otherwise transfers financial assets in such a way that some but 
not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred but control is retained. These financial 
assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement.  
– HSBC will continue to recognise financial assets transferred when it retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership. 
The majority of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are (i) debt securities held by counterparties as 
collateral under repurchase agreements or (ii) equity securities lent under securities lending agreements. The 
following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their 
associated financial liabilities: 
Financial assets and associated financial liabilities not qualifying for derecognition 
 2011 2010 
 
 Carrying 
 amount of 
 transferred
 assets 
 Carrying 
 amount of 
 associated 
 liabilities 
 Carrying 
 amount of  
 transferred 
 assets  
 Carrying 
 amount of 
 associated 
 liabilities 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Nature of transaction     
Repurchase agreements ................................................................ 124,982 124,413 124,625 122,455 
Securities lending agreements ...................................................... 7,129 7,039 7,277 7,202 
 132,111 131,452 131,902 129,657 
A small proportion of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition relate to loans, credit cards, debt securities 
and trade receivables that have been securitised under arrangements by which HSBC retains a continuing 
involvement in such transferred assets. Continuing involvement may entail retaining the rights to future cash flows 
arising from the assets after investors have received their contractual terms (for example, interest rate strips); 
providing subordinated interest; liquidity support; continuing to service the underlying asset; or entering into   
 
369 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
derivative transactions with the securitisation vehicles. As such, HSBC continues to be exposed to risks associated 
with these transactions. 
The rights and obligations that HSBC retains from its continuing involvement in securitisations are initially recorded 
as an allocation of the fair value of the financial asset between the part that is derecognised and the part that continues 
to be recognised on the date of transfer. The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that 
qualified for partial derecognition, the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement and the associated liabilities: 
HSBC’s continuing involvement in financial assets qualifying for partial derecognition 
 Securitisations at 31 December 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Carrying amount of assets (original) ........................................................................................................ 17,427 17,427 
Carrying amount of assets (currently recognised) .................................................................................... 22 42 
Carrying amount of associated liabilities (currently recognised) ............................................................ 11 21 
 
23 Interests in associates and joint ventures 
Associates 
Principal associates of HSBC  
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Carrying
 amount 
 Fair 
 value 
 Carrying 
 amount  
 Fair 
 value
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m
Listed     
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ........................................ 8,507 8,234 6,944  10,773 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited ........................................................ 2,214 2,743 1,769  2,799 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ............ 6,373 8,110 5,596  13,735 
The Saudi British Bank ................................................................ 1,886 3,256 1,580  3,224 
 18,980 22,343 15,889  30,531 
 
 At 31 December 2011 
 
 
 Country of
 incorporation 
 HSBC’s 
 interest in 
 equity capital 
  Issued 
 equity 
 capital 
Listed     
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ...........................................................  PRC
1
 19.03%   RMB61,886m 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited ...........................................................................  PRC
1
 12.80%   RMB10,786m 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ...............................  PRC
1
  15.57%   RMB7,916m 
The Saudi British Bank ...................................................................................  Saudi Arabia  40.00%   SR7,500m 
     
Unlisted     
Barrowgate Limited
2 
........................................................................................  Hong Kong  24.64%   – 
Vietnam Technological and Commercial Joint Stock Bank
 
............................  Vietnam  19.61%   VND8,788,079m 
Yantai Bank Co., Limited
3 
...............................................................................  PRC
1
 20.00%   RMB2,000m 
1 People’s Republic of China. 
2 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1m. 
3 Yantai Bank Co., Limited was previously known as Yantai City Commercial Bank. The investment is held through Hang Seng Bank 
Limited, a 62.14% owned subsidiary of HSBC. 
All the above investments in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.  
Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 Companies Act 2006, will be 
annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. 
HSBC had US$14,880m (2010: US$12,540m) of investments in associates and joint ventures listed in Hong Kong. 
For the year ended 31 December 2011, HSBC’s share of associates and joint ventures’ tax on profit was US$890m 
(2010: US$774m), which is included within share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the income statement.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
23 – Interests in associates and joint ventures / 24 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
 
 
370 
Summarised aggregate financial information on associates  
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
HSBC’s share of:   
– assets .................................................................................................................................................. 249,461 191,286 
– liabilities ............................................................................................................................................ 230,902 175,812 
– revenues ............................................................................................................................................. 12,009 9,274 
– profit after tax .................................................................................................................................... 3,221 2,479 
HSBC’s investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited was equity accounted with effect from August 2004. 
HSBC’s significant influence in Bank of Communications Co., Limited was established as a result of representation 
on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is 
assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to assist in 
this process. 
HSBC’s investment in Industrial Bank Co., Limited was equity accounted with effect from May 2004. HSBC’s 
significant influence has been established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. 
HSBC’s investment in Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China Limited (‘Ping An’) was equity accounted with 
effect from August 2005, reflecting HSBC’s significant influence over this associate. HSBC’s significant influence 
was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. In May 2010, following the issue of shares by 
Ping An to a third party, HSBC’s holding was diluted to 16.13% and a dilution gain of US$188m was recognised in 
‘Other operating income’. In June 2011, following a further issue of shares by Ping An to a third party, HSBC’s 
holding was diluted to 15.57% and a dilution gain of US$181m was recognised in ‘Other operating income’. 
In July 2011, Ping An increased its ownership interest in Shenzhen Development Bank (‘SDB’) from 29.99% to 
52.38%. As a result, the status of its investment in SDB changed from an interest in an associate to an investment in 
subsidiary. As a result of this transaction, Ping An recognised a remeasurement loss; HSBC’s share of this 
remeasurement loss was US$48m. 
The statutory accounting reference date of Bank of Communications Co., Limited, Ping An Insurance (Group) 
Company of China, Limited and Industrial Bank Co., Limited is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 
2011, these companies were included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 
30 September 2011, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2011 to 31 December 2011 
that would have materially affected their results. 
HSBC acquired 15% of Vietnam Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank in October 2007. This investment 
was equity accounted from that date due to HSBC’s representation on the Board of Directors and involvement in the 
Technical Support and Assistance Agreement. In December 2007, as a result of a rights issue in which HSBC did not 
participate, HSBC’s equity interest was diluted to 14.44%. In September 2008, HSBC increased its equity interest to 
20%. HSBC’s equity interest has been subsequently diluted to below 20% due to the issue of shares by the associate 
to its own employees. 
Joint ventures 
Principal interests in joint ventures 
 At 31 December 2011 
 
 Country of
 incorporation 
 Principal 
 activity 
 HSBC’s interest
 in equity
 capital 
  Issued 
 equity 
 capital 
HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited ....................................  Saudi Arabia  Investment banking  49.00%   SR500m 
Vaultex UK Limited .................................................  England  Cash management  50.00%   £10m 
Hana HSBC Life Insurance Co., Ltd ........................  South Korea  Insurance manufacturing  49.99%   KRW85,201m 
Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce  
Life Insurance Company Limited ........................  India  Insurance manufacturing  26.00%   INR8,000m 
   
 
371 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Summarised aggregate financial information on joint ventures 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
HSBC’s share of:   
– current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 1,556 1,481 
– non-current assets .............................................................................................................................. 196 97 
– current liabilities ................................................................................................................................ 747 706 
– non-current liabilities ........................................................................................................................ 715 666 
– income ............................................................................................................................................... 383 366 
– expenses ............................................................................................................................................. 339 328 
In December 2011, following the issue of shares by HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited to a third party, HSBC’s holding 
was diluted from 60% to 49% and a dilution gain of US$27m was recognised in ‘Other operating income’. 
Associates and joint ventures 
Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 17,198 13,011 
Additions .................................................................................................................................................. 90 1,589 
Disposals ................................................................................................................................................... (25) (38)
Share of results ......................................................................................................................................... 3,264 2,517 
Dividends .................................................................................................................................................. (304) (441)
Transfers ................................................................................................................................................... – (96)
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ 681 423 
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures ................................. (710) 107 
Other movements ...................................................................................................................................... 205 126 
At 31 December ........................................................................................................................................ 20,399 17,198 
Goodwill included in carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 
  2011   2010 
 US$m US$m 
Gross amount    
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 1,518 1,446 
Additions .................................................................................................................................................. – 60 
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ 57 40 
Other changes ........................................................................................................................................... (24) (28)
At 31 December
1
 ....................................................................................................................................... 1,551 1,518 
1 Includes the carrying amount of goodwill arising from joint ventures of US$31m (2010: US$32m). 
24 Goodwill and intangible assets 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Goodwill ................................................................................................................................................... 21,338 22,406 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’)
1
 .......................................................... 4,092 3,440 
Other intangible assets .............................................................................................................................. 3,604 4,076 
 29,034 29,922 
1 Disclosures on PVIF are provided on page 181. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
24 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
 
 
372 
Goodwill 
Reconciliation of goodwill 
 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Gross amount        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. 14,885 124 1,115 65 12,465 4,316 32,970 
Disposals ............................................... (3) – – – – (46) (49)
Exchange differences ............................ (449) – (35) (2) (1) (272) (759)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – (3,717) (231) (3,948)
Other changes ....................................... – – (17) – – (2) (19)
At 31 December 2011 ........................... 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 
        
Accumulated impairment losses        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. – – – – (10,564) – (10,564)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – 3,707 – 3,707 
At 31 December 2011 ........................... – – – – (6,857) – (6,857)
Net carrying amount at 
31 December 2011 ........................... 14,433 124 1,063 63 1,890 3,765 21,338 
        
Gross amount        
At 1 January 2010 ................................. 15,915 123 1,053 69 12,483 4,162 33,805 
Additions .............................................. – – 16 – – – 16 
Disposals ............................................... (3) – – – (17) – (20)
Exchange differences ............................ (1,004) 1 52 (4) (1) 154 (802)
Other changes ....................................... (23) – (6) – – – (29)
At 31 December 2010 ........................... 14,885 124 1,115 65 12,465 4,316 32,970 
        
Accumulated impairment losses        
At 1 January and 31 December 2010 ... – – – – (10,564) – (10,564)
Net carrying amount at 
31 December 2010 ........................... 14,885 124 1,115 65 1,901 4,316 22,406 
 
Impairment testing 
Timing of impairment testing  
HSBC’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed as at 
1 July each year. In line with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(p), goodwill is also retested for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, the Group’s CGUs are 
based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. The CGUs represent the lowest level at which goodwill 
is monitored for internal management purposes. The Global Banking and Markets – Europe CGU experienced 
significantly reduced profitability in the second half of 2011 and was retested for impairment as at 31 December 
2011. For other CGUs there was no indication of impairment in the period to 31 December 2011 and therefore 
goodwill has not been retested since 1 July 2011. 
Basis of the recoverable amount – value in use or fair value less costs to sell 
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at 
each respective testing date for 2010 and 2011. 
For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. 
The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the 
CGU operates. The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term 
perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs. In 2011, for most CGUs, management’s 
cash flow projections until the end of 2012 were used. However, due to the current economic conditions in Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management – Europe, and Global Banking and Markets – Europe, cash flow projections until 
the end of 2014 were used to more accurately estimate the cash flows for the period.   
 
373 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Key assumptions in VIU calculation and management’s approach to determining the values assigned to each key 
assumption 
 2011 2010 
Cash-generating unit  
Goodwill at 
1 July 
2011 
 Discount
 rate 
 Nominal 
 growth rate 
 beyond 
 initial 
 cash flow 
 projections 
 Goodwill at 
 1 July 
 2010  
 Discount 
 rate  
 Nominal 
 growth rate 
 beyond 
 initial 
 cash flow 
 projections 
 US$m  %  %  US$m   %   % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
– Europe ...................................................... 4,794  10.0  4.7 4,017  11.0   3.0 
Commercial Banking – Europe ....................... 3,574  10.1  4.5 3,015  11.0   3.0 
Global Private Banking – Europe .................... 4,456  10.0  4.3 4,055  11.0   3.0 
Global Banking and Markets – Europe ........... 3,139  10.2  4.4 2,983  12.0   3.0 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
– Latin America ........................................... 2,537  16.0  9.3 2,385  14.3   8.6 
Total goodwill in the CGUs listed above ........ 18,500   16,455    
At 1 July 2011, aggregate goodwill of US$5,091m (1 July 2010: US$4,674m) had been allocated to CGUs that were 
not considered individually significant. These CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible 
assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill. 
Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the 
CGU operates. In 2010 these were based largely on external historical data. For 2011 the rates are based on IMF 
forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as a more relevant estimate of likely future trends. The rates used for 
2010 and 2011 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within which the CGU operates. 
Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, 
which is derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model (‘CAPM’). The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number 
of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the 
business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s assessment of the economic variables and 
management’s judgement. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements 
this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates 
produced by external sources. HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in management’s judgement, 
those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions. For 2011 and 2010, internal costs of 
capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates. The decrease in European discount rates was largely 
driven by deleveraging within the financial services sector including HSBC and a fall in the risk free rate. 
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are 
based on plans approved by the Group Management Board. The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and 
nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe: the assumptions included in 
the cash flow projections for Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe 
reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two segments. Key 
assumptions include the level of interest rates and the level and change in unemployment rates. While current 
economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, management’s cash flow projections are based primarily 
on these prevailing conditions. Risks include a double-dip recession in the UK and the continuation of base rates at 
their current low levels. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably 
possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in 
respect of Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe or Commercial Banking – Europe. 
Global Private Banking – Europe: the revenues in Global Private Banking – Europe are predominately generated 
through HSBC’s client relationships. The cash flow forecast reflects current economic conditions and key 
assumptions include the level of interest rates and client risk appetite. Further economic deterioration could result in a 
decrease in assets under management and a reduction in fee and trading income through increased client risk 
aversion. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible 
change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of 
Global Private Banking – Europe.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
24 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
 
 
374 
Global Banking and Markets – Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for Global Banking 
and Markets – Europe is that European markets will stabilise and begin to recover in 2012.  Accordingly, European 
revenues are forecast to recover partially in 2012 and this recovery is assumed to continue over the projection period 
such that in the period to 2014 overall revenue is forecast to grow at a compound annual rate of 14.5% to recover to a 
level broadly in line with 2010. Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for Global Banking and Markets – 
Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the 
impact of the recommendations set out in the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking. 
Based on management’s value in use calculation, Global Banking and Markets – Europe has an excess of recoverable 
amount over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$3.6bn as at 1 July 2011. Headroom was US$4.9bn as at 
31 December 2011 based on goodwill at that point of US$3.0bn. The change in carrying value between 1 July 2011 
and 31 December 2011 arises from retranslating goodwill into the presentation currency of the group.  The same 
assumptions were used in the impairment tests as at 1 July 2011 and 31 December 2011. The following changes to 
the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: 
Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil 
Discount rate ........................................................................................................... Increase by 140 basis points 
Nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow projection ...................................... Decrease by 160 basis points 
Revenue compound annual growth rate ................................................................. Decrease from 14.5% to 12.4% 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of 
the countries within this segment, with Brazil and Mexico being two of the largest countries included within this 
segment. Key assumptions include the growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan 
portfolios. Mexico and Central America in particular are sensitive to economic conditions in the US which could 
constrain demand. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably 
possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in 
respect of Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America. 
   
 
375 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other intangible assets 
Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF 
 
 Trade
 names 
 Mortgage
 servicing
 rights 
 Internally
 generated
 software 
 Purchased
 software 
 Customer/ 
 merchant 
 relation- 
 ships   Other   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Cost        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. 68 636 5,202 1,065 1,987 503 9,461 
Additions
1
 ............................................. – 40 1,129 102 379 6 1,656 
Disposals ............................................... – (91) (44) (102) (181) (1) (419)
Amount written off ............................... – – (365) (133) – (2) (500)
Exchange differences ............................ (6) – (109) (40) (79) (14) (248)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. (2) – (197) (22) (746) (46) (1,013)
Other changes ....................................... – 6 (18) (14) (6) 8 (24)
At 31 December 2011 ........................... 60 591 5,598 856 1,354 454 8,913 
        
Accumulated amortisation        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. (52) (240) (2,958) (848) (1,143) (144) (5,385)
Charge for the year
2
 .............................. (4) (215) (609) (106) (212) (29) (1,175)
Impairment ............................................ – – (386) (3) – (1) (390)
Disposals ............................................... – 91 29 100 111 3 334 
Amount written off ............................... – – 365 133 – 2 500 
Exchange differences ............................ 3 – 44 31 29 – 107 
Reclassified to held for sale .................. 2 – 50 18 563 36 669 
Other changes ....................................... – (5) 28 3 3 2 31 
At 31 December 2011 ........................... (51) (369) (3,437) (672) (649) (131) (5,309)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 
2011 .................................................. 9 222 2,161 184 705 323 3,604 
        
Cost        
At 1 January 2010 ................................. 68 689 4,400 954 1,988 502 8,601 
Additions
1
 ............................................. – 52 960 140 48 4 1,204 
Disposals ............................................... – (105) (40) (15) (79) – (239)
Amount written off ............................... – – (70) (2) – – (72)
Exchange differences ............................ – – (68) (4) 30 27 (15)
Other changes ....................................... – – 20 (8) – (30) (18)
At 31 December 2010 ........................... 68 636 5,202 1,065 1,987 503 9,461 
        
Accumulated amortisation        
At 1 January 2010 ................................. (50) (240) (2,511) (747) (955) (125) (4,628)
Charge for the year
2
 .............................. (5) (105) (596) (97) (243) (30) (1,076)
Impairment ............................................ – – (12) – – – (12)
Disposals ............................................... – 105 33 8 68 (1) 213 
Amount written off ............................... – – 70 2 – – 72 
Exchange differences ............................ 1 – 48 1 (13) (1) 36 
Other changes ....................................... 2 – 10 (15) – 13 10 
At 31 December 2010 ........................... (52) (240) (2,958) (848) (1,143) (144) (5,385)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 
2010 .................................................. 16 396 2,244 217 844 359 4,076 
1 At 31 December 2011, HSBC had no contractual commitments (2010: US$0.2m) to acquire intangible assets.  
2 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under ‘Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets’, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in ‘Net fee income’.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
25 – Property, plant and equipment  
 
 
376 
25 Property, plant and equipment 
 
 Freehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Long
 leasehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Short 
 leasehold 
 land and 
 buildings
1
Equipment, 
 fixtures 
and fittings
2
 
  Equipment 
 on  
 operating 
 leases 
 
 Total
3
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Cost or fair value       
At 1 January 2011 ......................................................... 3,952 1,673 4,004 12,529  53  22,211 
Additions at cost
4
 .......................................................... 353 114 180 1,183  19  1,849 
Fair value adjustments .................................................. (15) 44 89 – – 118 
Disposals ....................................................................... (188) (19) (279) (1,400) – (1,886)
Reclassified to held for sale .......................................... (424) (19) (158) (260) – (861)
Transfers ....................................................................... (12) (35) 25 10  – (12)
Exchange differences .................................................... (203) 1 15 (395) (1) (583)
Other changes ............................................................... 74 41 (4) (88) – 23 
At 31 December 2011 ................................................... 3,537 1,800 3,872 11,579  71  20,859 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment       
At 1 January 2011 ......................................................... (586) (307) (1,268) (8,506) (23) (10,690)
Depreciation charge for the year .................................. (88) (51) (211) (1,157) (9) (1,516)
Disposals ....................................................................... 60 2 262 1,319  – 1,643 
Reclassified to held for sale .......................................... 133 13 80 138  – 364 
Transfers ....................................................................... 5 35 (34) (6) – – 
Impairment losses recognised ....................................... (13) – (16) (25) – (54)
Exchange differences .................................................... 18 (1) 8 260  1  286 
Other changes ............................................................... (73) (23) (2) 68  3  (27)
At 31 December 2011 ................................................... (544) (332) (1,181) (7,909) (28) (9,994)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2011 .................. 2,993 1,468 2,691 3,670  43  10,865 
       
Cost or fair value       
At 1 January 2010 ......................................................... 3,915 1,327 3,135 11,552  5,236  25,165 
Additions at cost
4
 .......................................................... 349 76 632 1,456  65  2,578 
Fair value adjustments .................................................. 31 24 38 – – 93 
Disposals
5
 ..................................................................... (307) (8) (82) (355) (5,113) (5,865)
Reclassified to held for sale .......................................... (73) (16) (3) (35) – (127)
Transfers ....................................................................... (47) (147) 199 (5) – – 
Exchange differences .................................................... (47) (5) (17) (62) (135) (266)
Other changes ............................................................... 131 422 102 (22) – 633 
At 31 December 2010 ................................................... 3,952 1,673 4,004 12,529  53  22,211 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment       
At 1 January 2010 ......................................................... (450) (229) (1,065) (7,743) (1,876) (11,363)
Depreciation charge for the year .................................. (91) (46) (203) (1,178) (150) (1,668)
Disposals
5
 ..................................................................... 31 – 68 344  1,956  2,399 
Reclassified to held for sale .......................................... 24 – 1 26  – 51 
Transfers ....................................................................... 23 20 (43) – – – 
Impairment losses recognised ....................................... (22) – 1 (24) – (45)
Exchange differences .................................................... 5 2 5 54  45  111 
Other changes ............................................................... (106) (54) (32) 15  2  (175)
At 31 December 2010 ................................................... (586) (307) (1,268) (8,506) (23) (10,690)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2010 .................. 3,366 1,366 2,736 4,023  30  11,521 
1 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$7m (2010: US$11m). 
2 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$210m (2010: US$204m). 
3 Including assets with a net book value of US$33m (2010: US$31m) pledged as security for liabilities. 
4 At 31 December 2011, HSBC had US$517m (2010: US$593m) of contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment. 
5 The disposals included under ‘Equipment on operating leases’ relate to the sale of a subsidiary, Eversholt Rail Group.  
Leasehold land and buildings 
Leasehold land and buildings are considered to be held under finance lease contracts where the value of the land 
cannot reliably be separated from the value of the lease and the respective contracts do not meet the criteria for 
classification as operating leases. Included within ‘Short leasehold land and buildings’ are the following amounts in 
respect of assets classed as improvements to buildings, which are carried at depreciated historical cost:   
 
377 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Leasehold land and buildings 
 2011 2010 
  Cost 
 Accumulated
 depreciation  Cost  
 Accumulated
 depreciation 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 1 January .................................................................................... 1,944 (933) 1,824  (831)
Additions ........................................................................................ 171 – 181  – 
Disposals ......................................................................................... (269) 262 (81) 54 
Depreciation charge for the year .................................................... – (139) – (133)
Impairment loss recognised ............................................................ – (15) – – 
Exchange differences ...................................................................... (13) 2 (16) – 
Reclassified as held for sale ........................................................... (154) 73   
Other changes ................................................................................. (10) (1) 36  (23)
At 31 December .............................................................................. 1,669 (751) 1,944  (933)
Net carrying amount at 31 December ............................................. 918  1,011   
 
Investment properties 
Movement on the fair value of investment properties  
 Freehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Long
 leasehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Short 
 leasehold 
 land and 
 buildings 
 
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value     
At 1 January 2011 ........................................................................... 667 156 310  1,133 
Additions at cost ............................................................................. 242 – – 242 
Fair value adjustments .................................................................... (15) 44 89  118 
Disposals ......................................................................................... (47) (17) – (64)
Exchange differences ...................................................................... (22) 1 1  (20)
Other changes ................................................................................. (80) 8 2  (70)
At 31 December 2011 ..................................................................... 745 192 402  1,339 
     
Fair value     
At 1 January 2010 ........................................................................... 640 184 237  1,061 
Additions at cost ............................................................................. 240 – – 240 
Fair value adjustments .................................................................... 31 24 38  93 
Disposals ......................................................................................... (216) (2) – (218)
Transfers ......................................................................................... – (42) 42  – 
Exchange differences ...................................................................... (34) (1) (1) (36)
Other changes ................................................................................. 6 (7) (6) (7)
At 31 December 2010 ..................................................................... 667 156 310  1,133 
Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional 
valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties. Investment properties in Hong Kong, the 
Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent more than 44% by value of HSBC’s 
investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited whose valuers are 
members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors. Properties in other countries, which represent 56% by value of 
HSBC’s investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers. 
HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2011 or 2010. 
HSBC properties leased to customers 
HSBC properties leased to customers included US$618m at 31 December 2011 (2010: US$441m) let under operating 
leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$12m (2010: US$19m). None was held by HSBC Holdings. 
At 31 December 2011, the classification of land and buildings in Hong Kong in accordance with Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance requirements was freehold nil (2010: nil), long leasehold US$1,363m (2010: US$1,292m), 
medium leasehold US$1,484m (2010: US$1,436m) and short leasehold US$4m (2010: US$6m). HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
26 – Investments in subsidiaries / 27 – Assets held for sale and other assets  
 
 
378 
26 Investments in subsidiaries 
Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings  
 At 31 December 2011 
 
Country of 
incorporation 
or registration 
HSBC’s
interest in
equity capital
% 
Issued 
equity 
capital  
 Share
 class 
Europe      
HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited ................................ England  100 £265m   Ordinary £1 
HSBC Bank A.S. ............................................................. Turkey  100 TRL652m 
 
 A-Common TRL1
 B-Common TRL1 
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. .................................................. Malta  70.03 €88m   Ordinary €0.30 
HSBC Bank plc ............................................................... England  100 £797m 
 
 Ordinary £1
 Preferred Ordinary £1
 Series 2 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01
 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01 
HSBC France ................................................................... France  99.99 €337m   Shares €5.00 
HSBC Bank International Limited .................................. Jersey  100 £1m   Ordinary £1 
HSBC Life (UK) Limited ................................................ England  100 £94m   Ordinary £1 
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) S.A. .............. Switzerland  100 CHF1,363m   Ordinary CHF1,000 
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG ................................... Germany  80.40 €28m   Shares of no par value 
Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services  
Holdings Limited ......................................................... England  100 £67m   Ordinary £1 
Hong Kong      
Hang Seng Bank Limited
1
 ............................................... Hong Kong  62.14 HK$9,559m   Ordinary HK$5.00 
HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited ..................................... Hong Kong  100 HK$1,298m   Ordinary HK$1,000 
HSBC Life (International) Limited ................................. Bermuda  100 HK$1,278m   Ordinary HK$1.00 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited ........................................................................
Hong Kong  100 HK$30,190m 
 
 Ordinary HK$2.50
 CIP
2
 US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00
 NIP
4
 US$1.00 
Rest of Asia-Pacific      
HSBC Bank Australia Limited ........................................ Australia  100 A$751m   Shares of no par value 
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited .......................... PRC
5
  100 RMB10,800m   Ordinary CNY1.00 
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad ......................................... Malaysia  100 RM115m   Ordinary RM0.50 
Middle East and North Africa       
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited ................................... Jersey  100 US$931m 
 
 Ordinary US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00 
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. ............................................... Egypt  94.53 EGP1,511m   Ordinary EGP84.00 
North America       
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited ........................................ Bermuda  100 US$30m   Common BMD1.00 
HSBC Bank Canada ........................................................ Canada  100 C$1,571m 
 
 Class 1 Pref of NPV
6
 Class 2 Pref of NPV
6
 Common of NPV 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A. .................................................. United States  100 US$2m   Common US$100 
HSBC Finance Corporation ............................................. United States  100  –
7
   Common US$0.01 
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. ........................................... United States  100  –
7
   Common US$0.05 
Latin America      
HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. ............................................ Argentina  99.99 ARS1,244m 
 
 Ordinary-A ARS1.00
 Ordinary-B ARS1.00 
HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo ..................... Brazil  100 BRL5,569m   Shares of no par value 
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,  
Grupo Financiero HSBC ............................................. Mexico  99.99 MXN5,261m   Ordinary MXN2.00 
HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. ............................................. Panama  100 US$10m   Ordinary PAB 1.00 
 
1 Listed in Hong Kong.  5 People’s Republic of China. 
2 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares.  6 Preference shares of nil par value. 
3 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares.  7 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m.  
4 Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares.   
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are 
included in the Notes 30 ‘Debt securities in issue’, 34 ‘Subordinated liabilities’ and 38 ‘Non-controlling  interests’, respectively. 
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.   
 
379 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Details of all HSBC subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK 
Registrar of Companies. 
All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S.A., whose 
financial statements are made up to 30 June annually. 
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle 
East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa and HSBC Life (International) Limited 
which operates mainly in Hong Kong. 
During 2011 and 2010, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or 
repaying loans and advances. 
SPEs consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights 
 Carrying value of total 
consolidated assets Nature of SPE 
  2011  2010  
  US$bn  US$bn  
Barion Funding Limited .................................................................. 3.8 4.5 Structured investment conduit 
Bryant Park Funding LLC ............................................................... 2.8 3.0 Conduit 
HSBC Affinity Corporation I .......................................................... – 4.2 Securitisation 
HSBC Funding Inc V ...................................................................... – 5.4 Securitisation 
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I ........................................ 2.1 2.8 Securitisation 
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II ....................................... 2.4 2.8 Securitisation 
HSBC Receivables Funding, Inc. I ................................................. – 3.7 Securitisation 
HSBC Receivables Funding, Inc. II ................................................ 1.9 2.0 Securitisation 
Malachite Funding Limited ............................................................. 3.6 3.9 Structured investment conduit 
Mazarin Funding Limited ................................................................ 8.0 10.3 Structured investment conduit 
Metrix Funding Ltd ......................................................................... 0.7 1.4 Securitisation 
Metrix Securities plc ........................................................................ 0.4 1.0 Securitisation 
Regency Assets Limited .................................................................. 7.5 6.3 Conduit 
Solitaire Funding Ltd ....................................................................... 12.5 13.5 Conduit 
In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant SPEs with total assets of 
US$14.1bn. For further details, see ‘Special purpose entities’ on page 401. 
In each of the above cases, HSBC has less than 50% of the voting rights, but consolidates because it has the majority 
of risks and rewards of ownership of the SPE, or the substance of the relationship with the SPE is such that its 
activities are conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefit 
from the SPE’s operation. The consolidation of SPEs sponsored by HSBC is discussed on page 292. 
27 Assets held for sale and other assets 
Assets held for sale 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Disposal groups .......................................................................................................................................... 38,903  530 
Non-current assets held for sale: 655  1,461 
– property, plant and equipment ................................................................................................................. 589  1,333 
– other ......................................................................................................................................................... 66  128 
 39,558 1,991 
Disposal groups 
At 31 December 2011, the majority of disposal groups held for sale related to the sale of the US Cards and Retail 
Services business, the sale of 195 US branches, the sale of the private banking business in Japan, the sale of banking 
operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras, the sale of the RBWM business in Thailand and the sale of a 
majority interest in the Middle East private equity fund management business.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
27 – Assets held for sale and other assets / 28 – T rading liabilities / 29 – Financial liabilities at FV / 30 – Debt securities in issue 
 
 
380 
The major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale were as follows: 
 31 December 2011 
  Costa Rica,
 El Salvador
 and
 Honduras 
 US
 branches 
 US Card
 and Retail
 Services  Other   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets of disposal groups held for sale      
Trading assets ................................................................. 3 – – 295 298 
Loans and advances to banks ......................................... 548 – – 6 554 
Loans and advances to customers .................................. 2,506 2,441 29,137 1,021 35,105 
Financial investments ..................................................... 482 – – – 482 
Prepayments and accrued income .................................. 28 10 582 6 626 
Goodwill and intangible assets ....................................... 256 10 318 1 585 
Other assets of disposal groups ...................................... 512 60 621 60 1,253 
Total assets ...................................................................... 4,335 2,521 30,658 1,389 38,903 
      
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale (Note 31)      
Deposits by banks ........................................................... 206 – – – 206 
Customer accounts .......................................................... 2,828 15,144 – 2,166 20,138 
Trading liabilities ............................................................ – – – 803 803 
Debt securities in issue ................................................... 152 – – 149 301 
Other liabilities of disposal groups ................................. 196 12 470 74 752 
Total liabilities ................................................................ 3,382 15,156 470 3,192 22,200 
Net unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in  
‘other operating income’ after reclassification  
to held for sale ............................................................ – – – (7) (7)
Expected date of completion .......................................... Q4 2012  Q3 2012  Q2 2012   
Operating segment........................................................... Latin
 America 
 North 
 America 
 North 
 America   
 
Property, plant and equipment 
The property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is the result of repossession of property that had been 
pledged as collateral by customers. Substantially all of these assets are disposed of within 12 months of acquisition. 
The majority arose within the North America operating segment.  
Neither a gain nor loss was recognised on reclassifying the disposal groups or non-current assets as held for sale 
during the year. 
Other assets 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Bullion ........................................................................................................................................................ 19,824 18,446 
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Note 32) ......................................................... 1,801 1,865 
Endorsements and acceptances ................................................................................................................... 11,010 10,116 
Retirement benefit assets ............................................................................................................................ 2,497 43 
Other accounts ............................................................................................................................................ 13,567 10,790 
 48,699 41,260 
   
 
381 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
28 Trading liabilities 
  2011 
 US$m  
 2010 
 US$m 
Deposits by banks ....................................................................................................................................... 47,506 38,678 
Customer accounts ...................................................................................................................................... 123,344 125,684 
Other debt securities in issue (Note 30) ..................................................................................................... 29,987 33,726 
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities ..................................................................................... 64,355 102,615 
 265,192 300,703 
At 31 December 2011, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC credit risk was 
a gain of US$599m (2010: gain of US$142m). 
29 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
HSBC 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Deposits by banks and customer accounts ................................................................................................. 517 6,527 
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts .................................................................................. 11,399 11,700 
Debt securities in issue (Note 30) ............................................................................................................... 52,197 46,091 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 34) .............................................................................................................. 17,503 19,395 
Preferred securities (Note 34) ..................................................................................................................... 4,108 4,420 
 85,724 88,133 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2011 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$1,377m more than 
the contractual amount at maturity (2010: US$1,631m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value 
attributable to changes in credit risk was a gain of US$5,118m (2010: gain of US$1,279m). 
HSBC Holdings  
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Debt securities in issue (Note 30)   
– owed to third parties ............................................................................................................................ 5,753 – 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 34):   
– owed to third parties ............................................................................................................................ 11,443 12,029 
– owed to HSBC undertakings ............................................................................................................... 3,955 4,259 
 21,151 16,288 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2011 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$722m more than 
the contractual amount at maturity (2010: US$855m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value 
attributable to changes in credit risk was a gain of US$2,096m (2010: gain of US$439m). 
30 Debt securities in issue 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Bonds and medium-term notes ................................................................................................................... 151,367  162,948 
Other debt securities in issue ...................................................................................................................... 61,830  62,270 
 213,197  225,218 
Of which debt securities in issue reported as:   
– trading liabilities (Note 28) ................................................................................................................. (29,987) (33,726)
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 29) ........................................................................ (52,197) (46,091)
 131,013 145,401 
Certain debt securities in issue are managed on a fair value basis as part of HSBC’s interest rate risk management 
policies. The hedged portion of these debt securities is presented within the balance sheet caption ‘Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value’, with the remaining portion included within ‘Trading liabilities’. The following table  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
30 – Debt securities in issue / 31 – Liabilities of disposal groups / 32 – Liabilities under insurance contracts 
 
 
382 
analyses the carrying amount of bonds and medium-term notes in issue at 31 December with original maturities 
greater than one year: 
Bonds and medium-term notes 
HSBC 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Fixed rate   
Secured financing:   
0.01% to 3.99%: until 2056 ................................................................................................................... 8,259 6,875 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2013 ................................................................................................................... 1,307 1,956 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2019 ................................................................................................................... 332 387 
8.00% to 9.99%: until 2028 ................................................................................................................... 276 394 
Other fixed rate senior debt:   
0.01% to 3.99%: until 2026 ................................................................................................................... 38,346 39,596 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2046 ................................................................................................................... 15,515 12,854 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2041 ................................................................................................................... 17,525 19,011 
6.00% to 6.99%: until 2046 ................................................................................................................... 7,056 11,008 
7.00% to 7.99%: until 2026 ................................................................................................................... 3,083 3,124 
8.00% to 9.99%: until 2036 ................................................................................................................... 379 254 
10.00% or higher: until 2025 ................................................................................................................. 437 337 
 92,515 95,796 
   
Variable interest rate   
Secured financings – 0.01% to 13.99%: until 2068 ................................................................................... 7,279 8,448 
FHLB advances – 0.01% to 0.99%: until 2036 .......................................................................................... 1,000 1,000 
Other variable interest rate senior debt – 0.01% to 12.99%: until 2057 .................................................... 47,393 53,301 
 55,672 62,749 
Structured notes    
Interest rate linked ...................................................................................................................................... – 4 
Equity, equity index or credit-linked .......................................................................................................... 3,180 4,399 
 3,180 4,403 
 151,367 162,948 
HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Debt securities ........................................................................................................................................... 8,366 2,668 
Of which debt securities in issue reported as:   
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 29) ....................................................................... (5,753) – 
 2,613 2,668 
Fixed rate senior debt, unsecured:   
3.00% to 3.99%: until 2016 ................................................................................................................... 1,177 – 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2022 ................................................................................................................... 2,573 1,664 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2021 ................................................................................................................... 2,730 – 
6.00% to 6.99%: until 2042 ................................................................................................................... 1,886 1,004 
 8,366 2,668   
 
383 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
31 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
 HSBC 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
1
 ............................................................................................... 22,200 86 
1 An analysis of liabilities of disposal groups held for sale is provided on page 380. 
Other liabilities 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC ........... 720 840 – – 
Obligations under finance leases (Note 42) ................................... 428 454 – – 
Dividend declared and payable by HSBC Holdings (Note 11) ..... 885 1,203 885 1,203 
Endorsements and acceptances ....................................................... 11,009 10,123 – – 
Other liabilities ............................................................................... 14,925 15,344 26 29 
 27,967 27,964 911 1,232 
 
32 Liabilities under insurance contracts  
 
Gross 
Reinsurers’ 
share Net 
 US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011    
Non-life insurance liabilities    
Unearned premium provision ....................................................................................... 621 (112) 509 
Notified claims .............................................................................................................. 510 (91) 419 
Claims incurred but not reported .................................................................................. 449 (51) 398 
Other ............................................................................................................................. 55 4 59 
 1,635 (250) 1,385 
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders     
Life (non-linked) ........................................................................................................... 26,926 (649) 26,277 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features
1 
................................... 21,488 – 21,488 
Life (linked) .................................................................................................................. 11,210 (903) 10,307 
 59,624 (1,552) 58,072 
 61,259 (1,802) 59,457 
    
At 31 December 2010    
Non-life insurance liabilities    
Unearned premium provision ....................................................................................... 727 (129) 598 
Notified claims .............................................................................................................. 879 (230) 649 
Claims incurred but not reported .................................................................................. 745 (75) 670 
Other ............................................................................................................................. 105 2 107 
 2,456 (432) 2,024 
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders     
Life (non-linked) ........................................................................................................... 23,583 (673) 22,910 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features
1 
................................... 22,074 – 22,074 
Life (linked) .................................................................................................................. 10,496 (760) 9,736 
 56,153 (1,433) 54,720 
 58,609 (1,865) 56,744 
1 Though investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, HSBC continues to treat them as 
insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
32 – Liabilities under insurance contracts 
 
 
384 
Movement on non-life insurance liabilities 
 
Gross 
Reinsurers’ 
share Net 
 US$m US$m US$m 
2011    
Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 727 (129) 598 
Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense ....................................................... 31 (2) 29 
Gross written premiums ........................................................................................... 1,175 (182) 993
Gross earned premiums ............................................................................................ (1,144) 180 (964)
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ (137) 19 (118)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 621 (112) 509 
Notified and incurred but not reported claims     
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 1,624 (305) 1,319 
Notified claims ......................................................................................................... 879 (230) 649
Claims incurred but not reported .............................................................................. 745 (75) 670
Claims paid in current year ........................................................................................... (631) 81 (550)
Claims incurred in respect of current year ................................................................... 481 (99) 382 
Claims incurred in respect of prior years ..................................................................... (46) 14 (32)
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ (469) 167 (302)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 959 (142) 817 
Notified claims ......................................................................................................... 510 (91) 419
Claims incurred but not reported .............................................................................. 449 (51) 398
Other ............................................................................................................................. 55 4 59 
Total non-life insurance liabilities ................................................................................ 1,635 (250) 1,385 
    
2010    
Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 833 (135) 698 
Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense ....................................................... (83) (12) (95)
Gross written premiums ........................................................................................... 1,192 (172) 1,020
Gross earned premiums ............................................................................................ (1,275) 160 (1,115)
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ (23) 18 (5)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 727 (129) 598 
Notified and incurred but not reported claims     
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 1,717 (327) 1,390 
Notified claims ......................................................................................................... 1,032 (245) 787
Claims incurred but not reported .............................................................................. 685 (82) 603
Claims paid in current year ........................................................................................... (815) 114 (701)
Claims incurred in respect of current year ................................................................... 519 (111) 408 
Claims incurred in respect of prior years ..................................................................... 106 11 117 
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ 97 8 105 
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 1,624 (305) 1,319 
Notified claims ......................................................................................................... 879 (230) 649
Claims incurred but not reported .............................................................................. 745 (75) 670
Other ............................................................................................................................. 105 2 107 
Total non-life insurance liabilities ................................................................................ 2,456 (432) 2,024 
   
 
385 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders 
 
Gross 
Reinsurers’ 
share Net 
 US$m US$m US$m 
2011    
Life (non-linked)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 23,583 (673) 22,910 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (1,793) 164 (1,629)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 5,729 (254) 5,475 
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ (593) 114 (479)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 26,926 (649) 26,277 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features     
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 22,074 – 22,074 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (2,628) – (2,628)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 3,005 – 3,005 
Exchange differences and other movements
1
 ............................................................... (963) – (963)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 21,488 – 21,488 
Life (linked)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 10,496 (760) 9,736 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (1,129) 56 (1,073)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 2,462 (111) 2,351 
Exchange differences and other movements
2
 ............................................................... (619) (88) (707)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 11,210 (903) 10,307 
Total liabilities to policyholders ................................................................................... 59,624 (1,552) 58,072 
    
2010    
Life (non-linked)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 20,979 (771) 20,208 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (1,355) 143 (1,212)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 5,108 (201) 4,907 
Exchange differences and other movements ................................................................ (1,149) 156 (993)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 23,583 (673) 22,910 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features     
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 21,014 – 21,014 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (2,023) – (2,023)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 3,716 – 3,716 
Exchange differences and other movements
1
 ............................................................... (633) – (633)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 22,074 – 22,074 
Life (linked)    
At 1 January .................................................................................................................. 8,986 (831) 8,155 
Benefits paid ................................................................................................................. (507) 45 (462)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders .......................................................................... 2,520 99 2,619 
Exchange differences and other movements
2
 ............................................................... (503) (73) (576)
At 31 December ............................................................................................................ 10,496 (760) 9,736 
Total liabilities to policyholders ................................................................................... 56,153 (1,433) 54,720 
1 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised 
investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.  
2 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements. 
The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to 
policyholders in the year. The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death 
claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of 
bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
33 – Provisions / 34 – Subordinated liabilities  
 
 
386 
33 Provisions 
 
Restruc-
turing
costs 
Contingent
liabilities and
contractual
commitments 
Legal
proceedings
and
regulatory
matters 
Customer
remediation 
Other 
provisions Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January 2011 ................................ 21 405 969 442 301  2,138 
Additional provisions/increase  
in provisions .................................... 221 14 896 1,078 184  2,393 
Provisions utilised ............................... (58) (5) (367) (386) (71) (887)
Amounts reversed ................................ (14) (41) (28) (87) (86) (256)
Unwinding of discounts ....................... –  1 56 –  5  62 
Exchange differences and other 
movements ....................................... (1) (168) (53) 20 76  (126)
At 31 December 2011 .......................... 169 206 1,473 1,067 409  3,324 
       
At 1 January 2010 ................................ 25 449 744 401 346 1,965 
Additional provisions/increase  
in provisions .................................... 31 46 294 196 197 764 
Provisions utilised ............................... (28) (29) (202) (94) (211) (564)
Amounts reversed ................................ (8) (8) (35) – (81) (132)
Unwinding of discounts ....................... – – 38 – 10 48 
Exchange differences and other 
movements ....................................... 1 (53) 130 (61) 40 57 
At 31 December 2010 .......................... 21 405 969 442 301 2,138 
Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 44. Legal proceedings include civil 
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or 
counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. Regulatory 
matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or 
law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. 
Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages 
associated with a failure to comply with regulations. Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to 
customer complaints, and not specifically initiated by regulatory action. 
Additional provisions include US$257m for the US mortgage foreclosure practices review (see Note 44 for further 
details), and US$785m in relation to the review of sales of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) in the UK. 
Payment Protection Insurance 
Following the High Court judgement on the Judicial Review application on 20 April 2011, HSBC has been working 
with the FSA and the Financial Ombudsman Service in order to ensure all PPI complaints are handled and, where 
appropriate, redressed in accordance with the FSA’s Policy Statement PS 10/12. 
PS 10/12 sets out the process to be followed and the issues to be considered when reviewing individual complaints. 
It also requires firms to ensure that root cause analysis is undertaken and, if any systemic issues are identified in the 
way in which PPI was sold, this may require proactive contact exercises to be undertaken for certain categories of 
non-complainants who purchased PPI at various times. 
The key assumptions relevant to calculating the potential liability in respect of PPI sales are likely to evolve over 
time as root cause analysis is completed and more experience is available regarding actual complaint volumes 
received. The main assumptions currently in use are the number of customer complaints expected to be received, and 
for how long a period; the number of non-complainant customers who will have to be contacted if systemic issues are 
identified following root cause analysis; the response rate from customers who are contacted pro-actively; and the 
expected uphold rate for complaints and the amount of redress payable in upheld cases. 
In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and 
circumstances of each individual customer’s case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as 
to the eventual costs of redress for this matter. There is a provision of US$506m as at 31 December 2011 (2010: 
US$37m) in respect of the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of PPI policies in 
previous years.   
 
387 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
34 Subordinated liabilities 
HSBC 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Subordinated liabilities   
At amortised cost .................................................................................................................................. 30,606 33,387 
–  subordinated liabilities ..................................................................................................................... 25,543 28,309
–  preferred securities ........................................................................................................................... 5,063 5,078
Designated at fair value (Note 29) ....................................................................................................... 21,611 23,815 
–  subordinated liabilities ..................................................................................................................... 17,503 19,395
–  preferred securities ........................................................................................................................... 4,108 4,420
 52,217 57,202 
Subordinated liabilities   
HSBC Holdings .................................................................................................................................... 21,456 22,878 
Other HSBC ......................................................................................................................................... 30,761 34,324 
 52,217 57,202 
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities 
  2011 2010 
  US$m US$m 
Amounts owed to third parties by HSBC Holdings (see page 390) ................................................... 21,456 22,878 
Other HSBC subordinated liabilities   
Step-up perpetual preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings
1
   
US$1,250m 4.61% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ....................................... 1,163 1,185 
US$900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, Series 2 .................... 891 891 
€1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ................................... 1,693 1,843 
€750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ....................................... 872 958 
€600m 8.03% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ....................................... 776 801 
£500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ..................................... 771 772 
  6,166 6,450 
Step-up perpetual preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc
2
   
£700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ..................................... 1,084 1,087 
£300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ..................................... 378 434 
  1,462 1,521 
HSBC Bank plc and subsidiaries   
£350m Callable subordinated variable coupon notes 2017
3
....................................................... 550 562 
£500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes 2020
4
....................................................................... 759 774 
€500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2020
5
............................................................. 550 592 
£350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes 2023
6
....................................................................... 533 547 
£300m 6.5% subordinated notes 2023........................................................................................ 463 462 
US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes 2025...................................................................................... 374 342 
£350m 5.375% callable subordinated step–up notes 2030
7
....................................................... 493 510 
£500m 5.375% subordinated notes 2033.................................................................................... 678 729 
£225m 6.25% subordinated notes 2041...................................................................................... 346 347 
£600m 4.75% subordinated notes 2046...................................................................................... 917 919 
US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes.................................................................... 750 750 
US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes.................................................................... 500 500 
US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, Series 3..................................................... 300 300 
€800m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016
8
............................................................. – 1,070 
€600m 4.25% callable subordinated notes 2016
8
....................................................................... – 823 
US$300m 6.95% subordinated notes 2011...................................................................................... – 310 
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m................................................. 617 662 
  7,830 10,199  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Subordinated liabilities  
 
 
388 
  2011 2010 
  US$m US$m 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd and subsidiaries 
US$300m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2017 
9
............................................................ 300 300 
AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2020 ............................................................. 203 204 
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes ................................................................... 406 407 
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (second series) .......................................... 403 403 
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (third series) .............................................. 400 400 
US$450m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 
10
........................................................... – 450 
AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 
11
........................................................... – 204 
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m ................................................ 362 368 
  2,074 2,736 
HSBC  USA Inc., HSBC Bank USA, N.A. and HSBC Finance Corporation   
US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes 2014 ................................................................................... 1,009 1,009 
US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes 2017...................................................................................... 505 526 
US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes 2020 ................................................................................... 1,259 1,252 
US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes 2020 ..................................................................................... 744 747 
US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes 2021 
12
..................................................................... 2,177 2,174 
US$200m 7.808% capital securities 2026 ...................................................................................... 200 200 
US$200m 8.38% capital securities 2027 ........................................................................................ 200 200 
US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes 2034 ................................................................................... 951 971 
US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities 2035 
13
....................................................................... 994 994 
US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes 2035 ................................................................................... 712 728 
US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes 2039 ..................................................................................... 681 694 
US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures 2097 ............................................................................ 214 213 
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m ................................................ 698 780 
  10,344 10,488 
Other HSBC subsidiaries   
BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit 2015 ..................................................................... 206 231 
BRL500m Subordinated certificates of deposit 2016 ..................................................................... 268 301 
US$250m Non-convertible subordinated obligations 2019 ........................................................... 232 248 
CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures 2021 ............................................................................ 195 200 
CAD400m 4.80% subordinated notes 2022 ..................................................................................... 417 417 
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m ................................................ 1,567 1,533 
  2,885 2,930 
  52,217 57,202 
Subordinated loan capital is repayable at par on maturity, but some is repayable prior to maturity at the option of the 
borrower, generally subject to prior notification to the FSA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking 
regulator, and in certain cases at a premium over par. Interest rates on the floating rate loan capital are related to 
interbank offered rates. On the remaining subordinated loan capital, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 
10.176%. 
  1 See page 389. 
  2 See page 389. 
  3 The interest rate on the callable subordinated variable coupon notes 2017 is fixed at 5.75% until June 2012. Thereafter, the rate per 
annum is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.70%. 
  4 The interest rate on the 4.75% callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in September 2015 to three-month sterling LIBOR plus 
0.82%. 
  5 The interest margin on the callable subordinated floating rate notes 2020 increases by 0.5% from September 2015. 
  6 The interest rate on the 5.00% callable subordinated notes 2023 changes in March 2018 to become the rate per annum which is the 
sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%. 
  7 The interest rate on the 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes 2030 changes in November 2025 to three-month sterling LIBOR 
plus 1.50% 
  8 In March 2011, HSBC redeemed its €800m callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 and its €600m 4.25% callable subordinated 
notes 2016 at par. 
  9 The interest margin on the callable subordinated floating rate notes 2017 increases by 0.5% from July 2012. 
10 In July 2011, HSBC redeemed its callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 at par. 
11 In May 2011, HSBC redeemed its callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 at par. 
12 Approximately 25% of the 6.676% senior subordinated notes 2021 is held by HSBC Holdings. 
13 The distributions on the trust preferred securities 2035 change in November 2015 to three-month dollar LIBOR plus 1.926%. 
Footnotes 3 to 7, 9 and 13 relate to notes that are repayable at the option of the borrower on the date of the change of the interest rate, and 
at subsequent interest rate reset dates and interest payment dates in some cases, subject to prior notification to the Financial Services 
Authority and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.   
 
389 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Step-up perpetual preferred securities 
(a) Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings 
The six issues of non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities were made by Jersey limited partnerships 
and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings. The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to 
HSBC Holdings by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes. The preferred securities qualify as 
tier 1 hybrid capital for HSBC. The preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide 
investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Holdings 
that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual 
preference shares of HSBC Holdings. 
The preferred securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2013, 2030, 2014, 2016, 2012 and 2015, respectively, 
at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships. If not redeemed, the distributions payable step-up 
and become floating rate or, for the sterling issue, for each successive five-year period the sum of the then five-
year benchmark UK gilt plus a margin. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if prohibited under 
UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy 
requirements, or if HSBC Holdings has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined). 
HSBC Holdings has covenanted that if it is prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on 
the preferred securities in full, it will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its ordinary shares, or 
effect repurchase or redemption of its ordinary shares, until after a distribution has been paid in full. 
If (i) HSBC’s total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (ii) the Directors expect 
that, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, the former will occur in the near term, 
then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Holdings having economic terms 
which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.  
(b) Guaranteed by HSBC Bank 
The two issues of non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities were made by Jersey limited 
partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank. The proceeds of the issues were on-
lent to HSBC Bank by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes. The preferred securities qualify as 
tier 1 hybrid capital for HSBC and for HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis and, together with the 
guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon 
liquidation of HSBC Bank that are equivalent to the rights they would have had if they had purchased non-
cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Bank. 
The two issues of preferred securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2031 and 2020, respectively, at the option 
of the general partner of the limited partnerships. If not redeemed, the distributions payable step-up and become 
floating rate. The same limitations on the payment of distributions apply to HSBC Bank as to HSBC Holdings, 
as described above. HSBC Bank has provided a similar covenant to that provided by HSBC Holdings, also as 
described above. 
If (i) any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in November 2048 or April 2049, respectively, 
or (ii) the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum 
ratio required, or (iii) in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect (ii) to 
occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank 
having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the 
guarantee taken together. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Subordinated liabilities / 35 – Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
 
 
390 
HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Subordinated liabilities:   
– at amortised cost ................................................................................................................................. 12,450 13,313 
– designated at fair value (Note 29) ...................................................................................................... 15,398 16,288 
 27,848 29,601 
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities 
 
  2011 
 US$m  
 2010 
 US$m 
Amounts owed to third parties   
US$1,400m 5.25% subordinated notes 2012 ..................................................................................... 1,438 1,492 
€1,000m 5.375% subordinated notes 2012 ................................................................................... 1,327 1,405 
€1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes 2018 ..................................................................................... 2,073 2,142 
£250m 9.875% callable subordinated bonds 2018
1
 ................................................................... 445 467 
€1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes 2019 ....................................................................................... 2,388 2,578 
€700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes 2020
2
 .................................................................... 869 928 
£900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes 2022
3
 .................................................................... 1,416 1,493 
£650m 5.75% subordinated notes 2027 ..................................................................................... 926 971 
£650m 6.75% subordinated notes 2028 ..................................................................................... 997 1,000 
US$488m 7.625% subordinated notes 2032 ................................................................................... 578 582 
US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes 2032 ..................................................................................... 257 258 
US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes 2036 ....................................................................................... 2,048 2,050 
US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes 2037 ....................................................................................... 2,634 2,695 
£750m 7.0% subordinated notes 2038 ....................................................................................... 1,205 1,210 
US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes 2038 ....................................................................................... 1,486 1,485 
£900m 6.0% subordinated notes 2040 ....................................................................................... 1,369 1,372 
US$750m Callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016
4
 ............................................................ – 750 
  21,456 22,878 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings   
US$1,250m 4.61% fixed/floating subordinated notes 2043 –  
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 2) LP ....................................................................... 1,223 1,274 
US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes 2040 –  
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) LP ....................................................................... 891 891 
€1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes 2043 –  
HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) LP .......................................................................... 1,791 1,957 
€750m 5.13% fixed/floating subordinated notes 2044 –  
HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 3) LP .......................................................................... 941 1,028 
€600m 8.03% subordinated step-up cumulative notes 2040 –  
HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 1) LP .......................................................................... 775 801 
£500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes 2040 – 
HSBC Capital Funding (Sterling 1) LP ..................................................................... 771 772 
  6,392 6,723 
  27,848 29,601 
1 The interest rate on the 9.875% subordinated bonds 2018 changes in April 2013 to become the higher of (i) 9.875% or (ii) the sum of the 
yield on the relevant benchmark treasury stock plus 2.5%. The bonds may be redeemed in April 2013 at par and redemption has also 
been allowed from April 1998, subject to the prior notification to the FSA, for an amount based on the redemption yields of the relevant 
benchmark treasury stocks. 
2 The interest rate on the 3.625% callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in June 2015 to become three-month EURIBOR plus 0.93%. 
The notes may be redeemed at par from June 2015 at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior notification to the FSA. 
3 The interest rate on the 6.375% callable subordinated notes 2022 changes in October 2017 to become three-month sterling LIBOR plus 
1.3%. The notes may be redeemed at par from October 2017 at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior notification to the FSA. 
4 In October 2011, HSBC Holdings redeemed its US$750m callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 at par. 
 
   
 
391 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
35 Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
The following is an analysis, by remaining contractual maturities at the reporting date, of asset and liability line items 
that combine amounts within one year, and after one year. Trading assets and liabilities are excluded because they are 
not held for collection or settlement over the period of contractual maturity. 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
HSBC 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Due within
one year 
Due after
more than
one year Total 
Due within 
one year 
Due after 
more than 
one year Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets       
Financial assets designated at fair value ............ 2,581 28,275 30,856 3,030 33,981 37,011 
Loans and advances to banks ............................. 171,132 9,855 180,987 200,098 8,173 208,271 
Loans and advances to customers ...................... 409,935 530,494 940,429 424,713 533,653 958,366 
Financial investments ......................................... 152,095 247,949 400,044 149,954 250,801 400,755 
Assets held for sale ............................................. 20,936 15,919 36,855 – – – 
Other financial assets .......................................... 22,878 5,557 28,435 19,417 5,519 24,936 
 779,557 838,049 1,617,606 797,212 832,127 1,629,339 
Liabilities       
Deposits by banks ............................................... 101,371 11,451 112,822 105,462 5,122 110,584 
Customer accounts .............................................. 1,214,190 39,735 1,253,925 1,181,095 46,630 1,227,725 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... 9,260 76,464 85,724 10,141 77,992 88,133 
Debt securities in issue ....................................... 74,129 56,884 131,013 86,096 59,305 145,401 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ........ 20,063 1,033 21,096 – – – 
Other financial liabilities .................................... 25,177 6,304 31,481 24,865 4,792 29,657 
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... 810 29,796 30,606 791 32,596 33,387 
 1,445,000 221,667 1,666,667 1,408,450 226,437 1,634,887 
HSBC Holdings 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Due within
one year 
Due after
more than
one year Total 
Due within 
one year 
Due after 
more than 
one year Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets       
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... 11,826 16,222 28,048 13,691 7,547 21,238 
Financial investments ......................................... – 1,078 1,078 – 2,025 2,025 
Other financial assets .......................................... 1 – 1 1 – 1 
 11,827 17,300 29,127 13,692 9,572 23,264 
Liabilities       
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. 1,165 1,314 2,479 1,480 1,452 2,932 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... 2,765 18,386 21,151 – 16,288 16,288 
Debt securities in issue ....................................... – 2,613 2,613 – 2,668 2,668 
Other financial liabilities .................................... 1,460 – 1,460 1,782 – 1,782 
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... – 12,450 12,450 – 13,313 13,313 
 5,390 34,763 40,153 3,262 33,721 36,983 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
36 – Foreign exchange exposures / 37 – Assets charged as security for liabilities / 38 – Non-controlling interests 
 
 
392 
36 Foreign exchange exposures 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
HSBC’s structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity 
and subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar 
functional currencies. Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. HSBC’s management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed in the 
‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on page 98. 
In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural 
foreign exchange exposures in the income statement. 
Net structural foreign exchange exposures 
 2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Currency of structural exposure   
Pound sterling ........................................................................................................................................... 22,668  23,247 
Euro ........................................................................................................................................................... 22,400  23,222 
Chinese renminbi ...................................................................................................................................... 21,234  17,454 
Brazilian reais ........................................................................................................................................... 6,097  6,004 
Mexican pesos .......................................................................................................................................... 5,319  5,991 
Canadian dollars ....................................................................................................................................... 4,848  4,012 
Hong Kong dollars ................................................................................................................................... 4,828  2,659 
Indian rupees ............................................................................................................................................. 3,967  4,754 
UAE dirhams ............................................................................................................................................ 2,650  2,469 
Swiss francs
1
 ............................................................................................................................................. 2,133  3,357 
Saudi riyals ............................................................................................................................................... 1,965  907 
Malaysian ringgit ...................................................................................................................................... 1,829  1,619 
Turkish lira ................................................................................................................................................ 1,565  1,854 
Taiwanese dollars ..................................................................................................................................... 1,457  1,429 
Australian dollars ...................................................................................................................................... 1,455  1,381 
Korean won ............................................................................................................................................... 1,411  1,456 
Indonesian rupiah ..................................................................................................................................... 1,235  1,190 
Argentine pesos ........................................................................................................................................ 984  881 
Egyptian pounds ....................................................................................................................................... 692  642 
Vietnamese dong ...................................................................................................................................... 686  621 
Singapore dollars ...................................................................................................................................... 670  596 
Philippine pesos ........................................................................................................................................ 663  635 
Qatari rial .................................................................................................................................................. 608  510 
Others, each less than US$500m .............................................................................................................. 4,651  4,413 
Total .......................................................................................................................................................... 116,015  111,303 
1 During 2011, we entered into a forward foreign exchange contract amounting to US$700m (2010: nil) in order to manage the foreign 
exchange risk of our investments. This resulted in a decrease of our structural foreign exchange exposure to Swiss francs as at 
31 December 2011. 
Shareholders’ equity would decrease by US$2,146m (2010: US$2,213m) if euro and sterling foreign currency 
exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar. 
37 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets 
Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities 
 Assets pledged at 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
Treasury bills and other eligible securities ............................................................................................... 5,185   5,859 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 19,247   11,773 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 81,570   60,500 
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 210,255   214,126 
Equity shares ............................................................................................................................................. 6,916   7,216 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 1,003   931 
 324,176   300,405 
% of total assets encumbered ................................................................................................................... 12.7  12.2   
 
393 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The financial assets above represent the Group’s encumbered assets on an IFRSs basis. For further details refer to 
‘Liquidity and funding risk’ on page 157. Of the financial assets pledged to secure liabilities, the most significant 
amounts are located in the following geographical regions: 
 Assets pledged at 31 December 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
North America .......................................................................................................................................... 58,086  53,472 
Europe ....................................................................................................................................................... 245,171  227,177 
 303,257  280,649 
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions, including, 
where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. 
Collateral accepted as security for assets 
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is 
US$302,285m (2010: US$333,921m). The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was 
US$188,682m (2010: US$205,470m). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. 
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and 
reverse repurchase agreements. 
38 Non-controlling interests 
 2011 2010 
 US$m  US$m 
   
Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries ............................... 4,656   4,522 
Preference shares issued by subsidiaries .................................................................................................. 2,712   2,726 
 7,368   7,248 
Preference shares issued by subsidiaries 
  2011 2010 
  US$m US$m 
HSBC  USA Inc. and HSBC Finance Corporation   
US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series B
1
 ....................................................... 559  559 
US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series F
2
 ............................................. 518  518 
US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series G
3
 ............................................. 374  374 
US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series H
3
 ....................................................... 374  374 
US$150m 
 
Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of  
adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, Series D
4
 ................................................. 150  150 
US$150m Cumulative preferred stock
5
 ........................................................................................ 150  150 
   
Other HSBC subsidiaries   
CAD250m Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, Series E
6
 .......................... 245  251 
CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, Series C
7
 ................................. 171  175 
CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, Series D
7
 .................................................... 171  175 
  2,712  2,726 
1 The Series B preferred stock has been redeemable at the option of HSBC Finance Corporation, in whole or in part, from 24 June 2010 
at par. 
2 The Series F preferred stock has been redeemable at par at the option of HSBC USA, Inc., in whole or in part, on any dividend payment 
date from 7 April 2010. 
3 The Series G and Series H preferred stock have been redeemable at par at the option of HSBC USA, Inc., in whole or in part, at any time 
from 1 January 2011 and 1 July 2011, respectively. 
4 The preferred stock has been redeemable at the option of HSBC USA, Inc., in whole or in part, from 1 July 1999 at par. 
5 The preferred stock has been redeemable at the option of HSBC USA, Inc., in whole or in part, from 1 October 2007 at par. 
6 The Series E preferred shares are redeemable at par at the option of HSBC Bank Canada, in whole or in part commencing 30 June 2014 
and on 30 June every five years thereafter. 
7 The Series C and Series D preferred shares have been redeemable at a declining premium above par at the option of HSBC Bank 
Canada, in whole or in part, from 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2010, respectively. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
39 – Called up share capital and other equity instruments 
 
 
394 
All redemptions are subject to prior notification to the FSA and, where relevant, the local banking regulator. 
39 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 
Issued and fully paid 
 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
1
 ............................................................................................................... 8,934 8,843 
   
 Number US$m 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each   
At 1 January 2011 ....................................................................................................................................... 17,686,155,902 8,843 
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans ..................................................................................... 11,354,577 6 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends .............................................................................................................. 170,575,167 85 
At 31 December 2011 ................................................................................................................................. 17,868,085,646 8,934 
   
At 1 January 2010 .......................................................................................................................................17,408,206,768 8,705 
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans .....................................................................................25,001,734 12 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends ..............................................................................................................252,947,400 126 
At 31 December 2010 .................................................................................................................................17,686,155,902 8,843 
1 All ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights in respect of capital, dividends, voting and otherwise. 
 Number US$m 
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each   
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 ................................................................................................ 1,450,000 – 
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 ................................................................................................1,450,000 – 
Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares (‘Dollar Preference Shares’) in issue are 
paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will not declare a 
dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares in issue if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to 
meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for 
distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the Dollar 
Preference Shares in issue and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that 
have an equal right to dividends. HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking 
lower in the right to dividends than the Dollar Preference Shares in issue nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any 
of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the Dollar Preference Shares in issue unless it has paid in full, or 
set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the Dollar Preference Shares in issue for the 
then-current dividend period. The Dollar Preference Shares in issue carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares 
of HSBC Holdings. Holders of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue will only be entitled to attend and vote at general 
meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the Dollar Preference Shares in issue has not 
been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates. In such circumstances, holders of the Dollar 
Preference Shares in issue will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC 
Holdings has paid a full dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares in issue. HSBC Holdings may redeem the Dollar 
Preference Shares in issue in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the 
FSA.  
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each 
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 (‘Sterling Preference Share’) was in issue from 
29 December 2010 and throughout 2011 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends on the Sterling 
Preference Share in issue are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The Sterling Preference 
Share in issue carries no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote 
at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the 
option of the Company.   
 
395 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other equity instruments 
On 9 April 2008, HSBC Holdings issued, in bearer form, 88m 8.125% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 
(‘Capital Securities’), each with a par value of US$25 and with an aggregate nominal value of US$2,200m. The 
Capital Securities were issued at par value, raising US$2,133m, net of issuance costs. The Capital Securities were 
issued to support the development of and to strengthen further HSBC’s capital base. Coupon payments on the Capital 
Securities are paid quarterly in arrears from 15 July 2008 and may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. 
The Capital Securities have no fixed maturity and are redeemable at HSBC’s option on or after 15 April 2013 at their 
principal amounts together with any accrued, unpaid and deferred coupon payments. While any coupon payments are 
unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in 
respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any securities of lower or equal rank. At HSBC Holdings’ 
discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the Capital Securities may be exchanged on any coupon 
payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and which would rank pari passu 
with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue. The preference shares will be issued at a nominal value of 
US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid. 
During June 2010, HSBC Holdings issued, in bearer form, 152m 8.00% of Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities, 
Series 2 (‘Capital Securities, Series 2’), each with a par value of US$25 and with an aggregate nominal value of 
US$3,800m. The Capital Securities, Series 2 were issued at par value, raising US$3,718m, net of issuance costs. 
These securities were issued on substantially the same terms as the Capital Securities issued in 2008. Coupon 
payments on the Capital Securities, Series 2 are paid quarterly in arrears from 15 September 2010 and may be 
deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. The Capital Securities, Series 2 have no fixed maturity and are 
redeemable at HSBC’s option on or after 15 December 2015 at their principal amounts together with any accrued, 
unpaid and deferred coupon payments. At HSBC Holdings’ discretion, and subject to certain conditions being 
satisfied, the Capital Securities, Series 2 may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative 
preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and which would rank pari passu with the dollar and sterling 
preference shares in issue. The preference shares will be issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a 
premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid. 
Shares under option 
Details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group 
Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are given in Note 9.  
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 
 
 Number of
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise   Exercise price 
31 December 2011 .................................................... 215,992,204 2012 to 2017  £3.3116 – 7.9911 
 45,422,511 2012 to 2017  HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
 3,176,265 2012 to 2017  €3.6361 – 9.5912 
 9,752,066 2012 to 2017  US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
31 December 2010 ..................................................... 249,242,968  2011 to 2016   £3.3116 – 8.4024 
 47,428,892  2011 to 2016   HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
 3,128,508  2011 to 2016   €3.6361 – 9.5912 
 10,899,415  2011 to 2016   US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
31 December 2009
1
 .................................................... 270,742,989  2010 to 2015   £3.3116 – 8.4024 
 50,938,242  2010 to 2015   HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
 3,283,710  2010 to 2015   €3.6361 – 9.5912 
 12,073,216  2010 to 2015   US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
1 During 2009, the number and prices of unexercised share options were adjusted for the rights issue. 
HSBC France and subsidiary company plans 
When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and certain of its subsidiary companies, including HSBC Private Bank 
France, operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
39 – Called up share capital and other equity instruments / 40 – Notes on the statement of cash flows 
 
 
396 
HSBC Private Bank France plan 
There were outstanding options over the shares of HSBC Private Bank France, a subsidiary of HSBC France. On 
exercise of those options, the HSBC Private Bank France shares were exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares at the ratio of 2.099984 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share. 
On 31 October 2011, HSBC Private Bank France merged with HSBC France. Options held over shares of HSBC 
Private Bank France were converted into options over shares of HSBC France, at an exchange ratio 7 HSBC France 
shares for 45 HSBC Private Bank France shares. The options outstanding at 31 October 2011 have been adjusted to 
reflect the option exchange ratio. On exercise of these options, HSBC France shares will be exchanged for HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 13.499897 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share. 
Before 31 October 2011, no (2010: 4,420) HSBC Private Bank France shares were issued and no (2010: 9,281) 
shares were exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. During 2011, 141,525 options over HSBC Private Bank 
France shares lapsed (2010: nil). 
From 31 October 2011, no employee share options were exercised and no HSBC France shares were issued and 
exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
At 31 December 2011, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 (Private Banking France) held 989,502 (2010: 
989,502) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which will be exchanged for HSBC France shares received following the 
exercise of these options. 
HSBC France options effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares  
  Number of HSBC
 France shares
 exchangeable for
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise 
 
 Exercise price 
31 December 2011
1
 ........................................................... 22,645  2012   €142.84 
31 December 2010 ............................................................. 287,100  2011 to 2012   €20.80 – 22.22 
31 December 2009 ............................................................. 291,520  2010 to 2012   €12.44 – 22.22 
1 These options replaced the options over shares in HSBC Private Bank France which were outstanding on 31 October 2011 prior to the 
merger taking place. 
HSBC Finance 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all outstanding options over,  and rights to receive, HSBC Finance 
common shares were converted into options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same 
ratio as the share exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance (2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for 
each HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same 
exchange ratio. During 2011, no options (2010: 306,964) over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised and no 
(2010: 306,964) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were delivered from The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit 
Trust 2003. During 2011, options over 8,688,288 (2010: 6,681,169) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. At 31 
December 2011, The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held a total of 2,335,315 (2010: 2,335,315) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 (2010: 1,455) ADSs, which may be used to satisfy the exercise of 
employee share options. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Finance share plan 
 
 Number of
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise   Exercise price 
31 December 2011 ............................................................ 2,429,538   2012   US$9.29 
31 December 2010 ............................................................. 11,117,826  2011 to 2012   US$9.29 – 18.62 
31 December 2009
1
 ............................................................ 18,105,959  2010 to 2012   US$9.29 – 18.62 
1 During 2009, the number and prices of unexercised share options were adjusted for the rights issue.   
 
397 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Bank Bermuda plans 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda in 2004, all outstanding share options over HSBC Bank Bermuda 
shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio calculated by 
dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda Share) by the average price of HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares over the 5 day period to the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price payable for 
each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. During 2011, no (2010: 4,781) options over HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares were exercised and no shares were delivered from the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit 
Trust 2004. During 2011, options over 1,308,126 (2010: 137,888) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. At 
31 December 2011, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 (2010: 2,108,830) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee options. 
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Bank Bermuda share plan 
 
 Number of 
 HSBC Holdings 
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise   Exercise price 
31 December 2011 ............................................................ 1,030,907  2012 to 2013   US$9.32 – 15.99 
31 December 2010 ............................................................. 2,339,033  2011 to 2013   US$9.32 – 15.99 
31 December 2009
1
............................................................. 2,481,702  2010 to 2013   US$6.13 – 15.99 
1 During 2009, the number and prices of unexercised share options were adjusted for the rights issue. 
Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
At 31 December 2011, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above 
option arrangements, together with Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) awards and Restricted Shares granted 
under the HSBC Share Plan and/or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 538,265,410 (2010: 558,187,326). The total 
number of shares at 31 December 2011 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to 
deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 31,840,893 (2010: 79,541,700). 
40 Notes on the statement of cash flows 
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment ...................... 3,135 2,801 2,538 1 2 
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates ........... (208) (188) – – – 
Revaluations on investment property ................................ (118) (93) 24 – – 
Share-based payment expense ........................................... 1,162 812 683 57 28 
Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and 
other credit risk provisions ............................................ 13,553 15,059 27,378 – – 
Provisions .......................................................................... 2,199 680 669 – – 
Impairment of financial investments ................................. 808 105 358 – 113 
Charge/(credit) for defined benefit plans .......................... (140) 526 192 – – 
Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums ..... (513) (815) (458) 19 42 
 19,878 18,887 31,384 77 185 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Notes on the statement of cash flows / 41 – Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 
 
 
398 
Change in operating assets 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Change in loans to HSBC undertakings ............................ – – – (4,548) 1,974 
Change in prepayments and accrued income .................... 1,907 457 3,198 96 (5)
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives ......... 27,058 60,337 15,388 (1,001) 1,119 
Change in loans and advances to banks ............................ 2,618 5,213 (30,354) – – 
Change in loans and advances to customers ..................... (30,853) (79,283) 6,149 – – 
Change in financial assets designated at fair value ........... (583) 154 (8,911) – – 
Change in other assets ....................................................... (7,559) (145) (6,273) (36) 3 
 (7,412) (13,267) (20,803) (5,489) 3,091 
 
Change in operating liabilities 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Change in accruals and deferred income ........................... (800) 716 (2,258) 258 147 
Change in deposits by banks ............................................. 2,238 (14,288) (5,216) – – 
Change in customer accounts ............................................ 48,401 68,691 41,983 – – 
Change in debt securities in issue ..................................... (14,388) (1,495) (32,797) (45) (171)
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value ..... 5,468 5,659 7,430 (475) (621)
Change in other liabilities .................................................. 3,093 (17,011) 5,503 (152) (1,109)
 44,012 42,272 14,645 (414) (1,754)
Cash and cash equivalents 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings ............................. – – – 316 459 
Cash and balances at central banks ................................... 129,902 57,383 60,655 – – 
Items in the course of collection from other banks ........... 8,208 6,072 6,395 – – 
Loans and advances to banks of one month or less .......... 169,858 189,197 160,673 – – 
Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit  
less than three months ................................................... 26,226 28,087 28,777 – – 
Less: items in the course of transmission to  
other banks .................................................................... (8,745) (6,663) (5,734) – – 
 325,449 274,076 250,766 316 459 
Interest and dividends 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Interest paid ....................................................................... (23,125) (21,405) (29,030) (2,392) (2,363)
Interest received ................................................................. 66,734 63,696 74,062 1,559 1,405 
Dividends received ............................................................ 602 563 1,023 6,874 7,008 
The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2011 was US$39,345m 
(2010: US$37,413m), of which US$25,819m (2010: US$28,780m) related to mandatory deposits at central banks. 
   
399 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
41 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees  
 HSBC HSBC Holdings 
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Guarantees and contingent liabilities      
Guarantees ...................................................................................... 75,672 71,157 49,402 46,988 
Other contingent liabilities ............................................................. 259 166 – – 
 75,931 71,323 49,402 46,988 
Commitments     
Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions ..... 13,498 12,051 – – 
Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed ..... 87 30 – – 
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other 
commitments to lend .................................................................. 641,319 590,432 1,810 2,720 
 654,904 602,513 1,810 2,720 
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments excluding capital commitments, which are 
separately disclosed below, and guarantees and other contingent liabilities, which are mainly credit-related 
instruments including both financial and non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit. Contingent 
liabilities arising from legal proceedings and regulatory matters against Group companies are disclosed in Note 44. 
Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default. 
The amount of the loan commitments shown above reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-
approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers. As a significant portion of guarantees and 
commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not 
indicative of future liquidity requirements.  
Guarantees 
HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third-party customers and other entities within 
the HSBC Group. These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBC’s banking business. The 
principal types of guarantees provided, and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be 
required to make at 31 December 2011, were as follows: 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Guarantees in
favour of
third parties 
Guarantees 
by HSBC
Holdings
in favour of
other HSBC
Group entities 
Guarantees 
in favour of 
third parties 
Guarantees 
by HSBC 
Holdings 
in favour of 
other HSBC 
Group entities 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Guarantee type
1
    
Financial guarantees
2
 ...................................................................... 26,830 36,800 29,208  36,800 
Credit-related guarantees
3
 ............................................................... 12,494 12,602 20,228  10,188 
Other guarantees ............................................................................. 36,348 – 21,721  – 
 75,672 49,402 71,157  46,988 
1 The balances have been grouped by major category of guarantee, revised from prior periods to present financial guarantees separately. 
2 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred 
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. 
3 Credit related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the strict definition of 
a financial guarantee contracts under IAS 39. 
 
The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBC’s maximum exposure 
under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings. The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are 
captured and managed in accordance with HSBC’s overall credit risk management policies and procedures. 
Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year. Guarantees with terms of more 
than one year are subject to HSBC’s annual credit review process.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
41 – Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees / 42 – Lease commitments / 43 – Special purpose entities 
 
 
400 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) has provided compensation to consumers following the 
collapse of a number of deposit takers. The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans 
from the Bank of England and HM Treasury. HSBC Bank could be liable to pay a proportion of the outstanding 
borrowings that the FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury which at 31 December 2011 stood at approximately 
£18.5bn (US$28.6bn). Currently, the Management Expenses Levy paid by the bank represents its share of the interest 
on these borrowings. 
The interest rate to be applied on HM Treasury loans for the period from 1 April 2012, on which the Management 
Expenses Levy for Scheme Year 2012/2013 will be based, has yet to be formally agreed by the FSCS and HM 
Treasury. HSBC Bank’s accrual for the Scheme Year 2012/2013 levy is based on an estimated funding rate which 
considers rates levied in prior years as well as previous public announcements. 
The accrual at 31 December 2011 reflects an estimate of US$87m in respect of expected Management Expenses Levy 
due in Scheme Year 2012/2013 (2010: US$144m in respect of the Scheme Years 2010/11 and 2011/12). However 
until negotiations are complete and the funding rate is finalised there exists the possibility that the levy for Scheme 
Year 2012/2013 will be based on a higher rate and that the bank’s liability will be consequently higher. In addition, 
an agreement by the FSCS not to charge Compensation Cost Levy for three years is also at an end and there exists the 
possibility that compensation for losses suffered could be levied in the Scheme Year commencing 1 April 2012. 
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is 
dependent on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the 
interest rate, and the level of protected deposits at the time. 
Commitments 
In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 399, at 31 December 2011 HSBC had US$715m (2010: 
US$1,071m) of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$272m (2010: US$287m) of capital 
commitments authorised but not contracted for. 
Associates 
HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities amounted to US$34,311m at 31 December 2011 (2010: 
US$25,640m). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
42 Lease commitments 
Finance lease commitments 
HSBC leases land and buildings (including branches) and equipment from third parties under finance lease 
arrangements to support its operations. 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
 Total future 
 minimum 
 payments 
 Future 
 interest 
 charges 
 Present value
 of finance
 lease
 commitments
1
 Total future 
 minimum 
 payments 
 Future 
 interest 
 charges  
 Present value 
 of finance 
 lease 
 commitments 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Lease commitments:       
–  no later than one year .................. 98 (26) 72 107 (20) 87 
–  later than one year and no later 
than five years ............................. 216 (99) 117 187 (92) 95 
–  later than five years ..................... 362 (92) 270 390 (118) 272 
 676 (217) 459 684 (230) 454 
1 Lease commitments include US$31m of finance leases which are shown as part of liabilities of disposal groups held for sale in Note 31. 
At 31 December 2011, future minimum sublease payments of US$413m (2010: US$436m) are expected to be 
received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date.   
 
401 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Operating lease commitments 
At 31 December 2011, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant 
and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years. 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Land and
buildings Equipment 
Land and 
buildings Equipment 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable  
operating leases:     
–  no later than one year ............................................................. 1,130 18 920  23 
–  later than one year and no later than five years ..................... 2,656 18 2,663  37 
–  later than five years ................................................................ 2,496 – 2,614  – 
 6,282 36 6,197  60 
At 31 December 2011, future minimum sublease payments of US$17m (2010: US$21m) are expected to be received 
under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. 
In 2011, US$973m (2010: US$888m; 2009: US$1,100m) was charged to ‘General and administrative expenses’ 
in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$952m (2010: US$869m; 2009: US$833m) related to 
minimum lease payments, US$20m (2010: US$18m; 2009: US$16m) to contingent rents, and US$1m (2010: US$1m; 
2009: US$251m) to sublease payments. 
The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses.  
Finance lease receivables 
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), 
property and general plant and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for 
further terms. Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved. Lease rentals arising during the lease terms 
will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates. Rentals are 
calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. 
 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 
 
Total future
minimum
payments 
Unearned
finance
income 
Present
value 
Total future
minimum 
payments 
Unearned 
finance 
income 
Present 
value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Lease receivables:       
–  no later than one year ................ 3,766 (459) 3,307 3,002 (344) 2,658 
–  later than one year and  
no later than five years .............. 8,618 (1,055) 7,563 8,940 (813) 8,127 
–  later than five years ................... 5,969 (1,204) 4,765 6,629 (1,462) 5,167 
 18,353 (2,718) 15,635 18,571 (2,619) 15,952 
At 31 December 2011, unguaranteed residual values of US$267m (2010: US$243m) had been accrued, and the 
accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$25m (2010: US$11m). 
No contingent rents were received in 2011 (2010: nil). 
43 Special purpose entities 
HSBC enters into certain transactions with customers in the ordinary course of business which involve the 
establishment of special purpose entities (‘SPE’s) to facilitate or secure customer transactions. HSBC structures that 
utilise SPEs are authorised centrally when they are established, to ensure appropriate purpose and governance. The 
activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.  
SPEs are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1(e).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
43 – Special purpose entities  
 
 
402 
Total consolidated assets held by SPEs by balance sheet classification 
  Conduits 
 Securit-
 isations 
 Money 
 market 
 funds  
 Non-money 
 market 
 investment 
 funds   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011      
Cash ...................................................................................... 0.8 0.3 – 0.3 1.4
Trading assets ....................................................................... 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.4 1.2
Financial assets designated at fair value ............................... 0.1  –  – 6.5 6.6
Derivatives ............................................................................  – 0.1 –  – 0.1
Loans and advances to banks ...............................................  – 1.2 –  – 1.2
Loans and advances to customers ........................................ 10.5 8.0 –  – 18.5
Financial investments ........................................................... 25.8  –  –  – 25.8
Other assets ........................................................................... 1.6  –  –  – 1.6
 38.9 10.1 0.2 7.2 56.4
        
At 31 December 2010        
Cash ...................................................................................... 1.0 0.7 – 0.3  2.0 
Trading assets ....................................................................... 0.1 0.6 0.4 0.5  1.6 
Financial assets designated at fair value .............................. 0.1  –  – 6.4  6.5 
Derivatives ............................................................................  – 0.3 –  – 0.3
Loans and advances to banks ...............................................  – 1.4 –  – 1.4
Loans and advances to customers ........................................ 8.4 22.2 –  – 30.6 
Financial investments ........................................................... 30.5  0.1  –  – 30.6 
Other assets ........................................................................... 1.6  0.4  – 0.4 2.4 
 41.7 25.7 0.4 7.6  75.4 
 
HSBC’s maximum exposure to SPEs 
The following table shows the total assets of the various types of SPEs and the amount of funding provided by HSBC 
to these SPEs. The table also shows HSBC’s maximum exposure to the SPEs and, within that exposure, the liquidity 
and credit enhancements provided by HSBC. The maximum exposures to SPEs represent HSBC’s maximum possible 
risk exposure that could occur as a result of the Group’s arrangements and commitments to SPEs. The maximum 
amounts are contingent in nature, and may arise as a result of drawdowns under liquidity facilities, where these have 
been provided, and any other funding commitments, or as a result of any loss protection provided by HSBC to the 
SPEs. The conditions under which such exposure might arise differ depending on the nature of each SPE and 
HSBC’s involvement with it. 
Total assets of consolidated and unconsolidated SPEs and HSBC’s funding and maximum exposure 
 Consolidated SPEs Unconsolidated SPEs 
 
Total 
assets 
Funding
provided
by HSBC 
Liquidity
and credit
enchance-
ments 
HSBC’s
maximum
exposure 
Total 
assets 
Funding 
provided 
by HSBC 
HSBC’s
maximum
exposure 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn 
At 31 December 2011 
Conduits ....................................... 38.9 27.7 37.1 48.5 –  –  – 
Securities investment conduits  27.9 27.4 22.1 33.5 –  –  –
Multi-seller conduits ............... 11.0 0.3 15.0 15.0 –  –  –
Securitisations .................................. 10.1 1.6 0.1 3.8 8.1  –  – 
Money market funds .................... 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 73.9 0.9 0.9
Constant net asset value funds   –  – – – 54.4 0.7 0.7
Other ........................................ 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 19.5 0.2 0.2
Non-money market investment 
funds ........................................ 7.2 6.9 – 6.9 260.8 1.7 1.7
Other ............................................  –  –  –  – 19.4 3.7 4.6
 56.4 36.4 37.2 59.4 362.2 6.3 7.2
   
 
403 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Consolidated SPEs Unconsolidated SPEs 
 
Total 
assets 
Funding 
provided 
by HSBC 
Liquidity 
and credit 
enchance- 
ments 
HSBC’s 
maximum 
exposure 
Total 
assets 
Funding 
provided 
by HSBC 
HSBC’s 
maximum 
exposure 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn 
At 31 December 2010           
Conduits .......................................  41.7   28.6  38.3  50.5  –   –   – 
Securities investment conduits   32.2   28.6 25.6 37.8 –   –   –
Multi-seller conduits ...............  9.5   – 12.7 12.7 –   –   –
Securitisations ..................................  25.7   1.9  0.1  4.7  9.9   –   – 
Money market funds ....................  0.4   0.4  –  0.4  95.8   0.7   0.7 
Constant net asset value funds   –   – – – 74.9   0.5   0.5
Other ........................................  0.4   0.4 – 0.4 20.9   0.2   0.2 
Non-money market investment 
funds ........................................  7.6    6.9  –  6.9  274.7    1.7   1.7 
Other ............................................  –   –  –  –  19.0   9.4   3.7 
  75.4   37.8  38.4  62.5  399.4   11.8   6.1 
Conduits 
HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s) and multi-seller conduits. 
Securities investment conduits 
Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, holds asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) on behalf of HSBC. At 31 December 2011, 
Solitaire held US$10.6bn of ABSs (2010: US$11.7bn). These are included within the disclosures of ABS ‘held 
through consolidated SPEs’ on page 152. HSBC’s other SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from the 
restructuring of HSBC’s sponsored structured investment vehicles (‘SIV’s) in 2008. 
Solitaire 
Commercial Paper (‘CP’) issued by Solitaire benefits from a 100% liquidity facility provided by HSBC. 
At 31 December 2011, US$9.3bn of Solitaire’s assets were funded by the draw-down of the liquidity facility (2010: 
US$7.6bn). HSBC is exposed to credit losses on the drawn amounts. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure represents the risk that HSBC may be required to fund the vehicle in the event the CP is 
redeemed without reinvestment from third parties. At 31 December 2011 this amounted to US$15.6bn (31 December 
2010: US$16.8bn). 
Mazarin 
HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin’s assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lesser 
of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets. At 31 December 2011, this 
amounted to US$9.5bn (2010: US$11.6bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by 
Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties. 
At 31 December 2011, HSBC held 1.3% of Mazarin’s capital notes (2010: 1.3%) which have a par value of US$17m 
(2010: US$17m) and a carrying amount of nil (2010: US$0.6m). 
Barion and Malachite 
HSBC’s primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the 
non-cash assets of the vehicles. At 31 December 2011, this amounted to US$8.4bn (2010: US$9.4bn). First loss 
protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially all held by third 
parties. 
At 31 December 2011, HSBC held 3.7% of the capital notes issued by these vehicles (2010: 3.7%) which have a par 
value of US$35m (2010: US$35m) and a carrying amount of US$1.1m (2010: US$2m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
43 – Special purpose entities / 44 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  
 
 
404 
Multi-seller conduits 
These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for 
HSBC’s clients. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure is equal to the transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits. 
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit 
enhancements. A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide 
enhancement facilities. 
The following table sets out the weighted average life of the asset portfolios for the above mentioned conduits. 
Weighted average life of portfolios 
   Solitaire   Other SICs   Total SICs  
  Total multi-
 seller conduits 
Weighted average life (years)     
At 31 December 2011 ....................................................... 5.9 4.1 4.9  2.0 
At 31 December 2010 ........................................................ 5.1 4.0 4.4 1.8 
 
Securitisations 
HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its sources of 
funding for asset origination and for capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to 
the SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities to investors to fund the cash purchases. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure is the aggregate of any holdings of notes issued by these vehicles and the reserve 
account positions intended to provide credit support under certain pre-defined circumstances to senior note holders. 
In addition, HSBC uses SPEs to mitigate the capital absorbed by some of the customer loans and advances it has 
originated. Credit derivatives are used to transfer the credit risk associated with these customer loans and advances to 
an SPE, using securitisations commonly known as synthetic securitisations by which the SPE writes credit default 
swap protection to HSBC. The SPE is funded by the issuance of notes with the cash held as collateral against the 
credit default protection. From a UK regulatory perspective, the credit protection issued by the SPE in respect of the 
customer loans allows the risk weight of the loans to be replaced by the risk weight of the collateral in the SPE and as 
a result mitigates the capital absorbed by the customer loans. Any notes issued by the SPE and held by HSBC attract 
the appropriate risk weight under the relevant regulatory regime. These SPEs are consolidated when HSBC is 
exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of ownership. 
Money market funds 
HSBC has established and manages a number of money market funds which provide customers with tailored 
investment opportunities within narrow and well-defined objectives. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure to money market funds is represented by HSBC’s investment in the units of each fund, which 
at 31 December 2011 amounted to US$1.1bn (2010: US$1.1bn). 
Non-money market investment funds 
HSBC has established a large number of non-money market investment funds to enable customers to invest in a range 
of assets, typically equities and debt securities. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure to non-money market investment funds is represented by its investment in the units of 
each fund which at 31 December 2011 amounted to US$8.6bn (2010: US$8.6bn). 
Other 
HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course of business for a number of purposes, for example, structured 
transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and 
structured finance transactions. 
In certain transactions HSBC is exposed to risk often referred to as gap risk. Gap risk typically arises in transactions 
where the aggregate potential claims against the SPE by HSBC pursuant to one or more derivatives could be greater 
than the value of the collateral held by the SPE and securing such derivatives. HSBC often mitigates such gap risk by   
 
405 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
incorporating in the SPE transaction features which allow for deleveraging, a managed liquidation of the portfolio, or 
other mechanisms including trade restructuring or unwinding the trade. Following the inclusion of such risk reduction 
mechanisms, HSBC has, in certain circumstances, retained all or a portion of the underlying exposure in the 
transaction. In these circumstances, HSBC assesses whether the exposure retained causes a requirement under IFRSs 
to consolidate the SPE. When this retained exposure represents ABSs, it has been included in ‘Nature of HSBC’s 
exposures’ on page 194. 
Third-party sponsored SPEs 
Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, conduits and 
securitisations under normal banking arrangements on standard market terms. These exposures are not considered 
significant to HSBC’s operations.  
Additional off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments 
Additional off-balance sheet commitments such as financial guarantees, letters of credit and commitments to lend are 
disclosed in Note 41. 
Leveraged finance transactions 
Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBC’s 
intention to sell the loan after origination. Further information is provided on pages 155 and 156. 
44 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
HSBC is party to legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of 
its normal business operations. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters is 
material, either individually or in the aggregate. HSBC recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these 
matters when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation which has 
arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. While 
the outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to 
it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters as at 31 December 
2011 (see Note 33). 
Securities litigation 
As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other 
corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 State Attorneys General relating to real estate lending 
practices, Household International (now HSBC Finance) and certain former officers were named as defendants in a 
class action law suit, Jaffe v Household International Inc, et al No 2. C 5893 (N.D.Ill, filed 19 August 2002). The 
complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, on behalf of all persons who acquired and 
disposed of Household International common stock between 30 July 1999 and 11 October 2002. The claims alleged 
that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to 
Household’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which 
ultimately led to the 2002 State settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the 
restatement. Following a jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs, the 
Court issued a ruling on 22 November 2010 within the second phase of the case to determine actual damages, that 
claim forms should be mailed to class members, and also set out a method for calculating damages for class members 
who filed claims. As previously reported, lead plaintiffs, in court filings in March 2010, estimated that damages could 
range ‘somewhere between US$2.4bn to US$3.2bn to class members’, before pre-judgement interest. 
On 22 December 2011, plaintiffs submitted the report of the Court-appointed claims administrator to the Court. 
That report stated that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate 
amount of these claims was approximately US$2.23bn. Now that the claims administration process is complete, 
plaintiffs are expected to ask the Court to assess pre-judgement interest to be included as part of the Court’s final 
judgement. On 27 January 2012, the Court held a status conference at which it set a schedule for us to provide 
plaintiffs with objections to the claims and for plaintiffs to respond to such objections. The Court also indicated at 
that conference that it expects to schedule a further conference in April 2012. We expect the Court’s final judgement 
to be entered at some point after this conference.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
44 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  
 
 
406 
Despite the jury verdict and the 22 November 2010 ruling, HSBC continues to believe that it has meritorious grounds 
for appeal of one or more of the rulings in the case, and intends to appeal the Court’s final judgement, which could 
involve a substantial amount once it is entered. Upon appeal, HSBC Finance will be required to provide security for 
the judgement in order to suspend its execution while the appeal is ongoing by either depositing cash in an interest-
bearing escrow account or posting an appeal bond in the amount of the judgement (including any pre-judgement 
interest awarded). 
Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome 
of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible damages. HSBC believes it has meritorious grounds for appeal on 
matters of both liability and damages and will argue on appeal that damages should be nil or a relatively insignificant 
amount. If the Appeals Court rejects or only partially accepts HSBC’s arguments, the amount of damages, including 
pre-judgement interest, could be higher, and may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to somewhere 
in the region of US$3.5bn. 
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC 
In December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme and a trustee was 
appointed for the liquidation of his firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), an 
SEC-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Since his appointment, the trustee has been recovering assets 
and processing claims of Madoff Securities customers. Madoff subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges and is 
serving a 150 year prison sentence. He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ 
money in securities and, upon request, return their profits and principal, he in fact never invested in securities and 
used other customers’ money to fulfil requests for the return of profits and principal. The relevant US authorities are 
continuing their investigations into his fraud, and have brought charges against others, including certain former 
employees and the former auditor of Madoff Securities. 
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds 
incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by 
Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount 
that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC to date, we estimate that 
the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the 
time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. 
Plaintiffs (including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee) have commenced Madoff-related 
proceedings against numerous defendants in a multitude of jurisdictions. Various HSBC companies have been named 
as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions. Certain suits (which included four US 
putative class actions) allege that the HSBC defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s fraud and breached 
various duties to the funds and fund investors. 
In July 2010, the US District Court Judge overseeing a putative class action in the Southern District of Florida 
dismissed all claims against the HSBC defendants for lack of personal jurisdiction and on forum non conveniens 
grounds. In August 2011, the US Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the dismissal. 
In November 2011, the US District Court Judge overseeing three related putative class actions in the Southern 
District of New York dismissed all claims against the HSBC defendants on forum non conveniens grounds, but 
temporarily stayed this ruling as to one of the actions against the HSBC defendants – the claims of investors in 
Thema International Fund plc – in light of a proposed amended settlement agreement pursuant to which, subject to 
various conditions, the HSBC defendants had agreed to pay from US$52.5m up to a maximum of US$62.5m. In 
December 2011, the court lifted this temporary stay and dismissed all remaining claims against the HSBC defendants, 
and declined to consider preliminary approval of the settlement. In light of the court’s decisions, HSBC has 
terminated the settlement agreement. The Thema plaintiff contests HSBC’s right to terminate. Plaintiffs in all three 
actions have filed notices of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
In December 2010, the Madoff Securities trustee commenced suits against various HSBC companies in the US 
Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court. The US action (which also names certain funds, investment 
managers, and other entities and individuals) sought US$9bn in damages and additional recoveries from HSBC and 
the various co-defendants. It sought damages against HSBC for allegedly aiding and abetting Madoff’s fraud and 
breach of fiduciary duty. In July 2011, after withdrawing the case from the Bankruptcy Court in order to decide 
certain threshold issues, the US District Court Judge dismissed the trustee’s various common law claims on the   
 
407 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
grounds that the trustee lacks standing to assert them. In December 2011, the District Court issued an order that 
allowed the trustee to immediately appeal that ruling and the trustee has filed a notice of appeal. 
The District Court returned the remaining claims to the US Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings. Those claims 
seek, pursuant to US bankruptcy law, recovery of unspecified amounts received by HSBC from funds invested with 
Madoff, including amounts that HSBC received when it redeemed units HSBC held in the various funds. HSBC 
acquired those fund units in connection with financing transactions HSBC had entered into with various clients. 
The trustee’s US bankruptcy law claims also seek recovery of fees earned by HSBC for providing custodial, 
administration and similar services to the funds. In September 2011, certain non-HSBC defendants moved again to 
withdraw the case from the Bankruptcy Court. Those withdrawal motions are currently pending before the District 
Court.  
The trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers of money from Madoff Securities to or through 
HSBC, on the grounds that the HSBC defendants actually or constructively knew of Madoff’s fraud.  HSBC has not 
been served. 
Between October 2009 and July 2011, Fairfield Sentry Limited and Fairfield Sigma Limited (‘Fairfield’), funds 
whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the British 
Virgin Islands (‘BVI’) and the US against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that 
acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who invested in the Fairfield 
funds. The Fairfield actions seek restitution of amounts paid to the defendants in connection with share redemptions, 
on the ground that such payments were made by mistake, based on inflated values resulting from Madoff’s fraud, and 
some actions also seek recovery of the share redemptions under BVI insolvency law. The actions in the US are 
currently stayed in the Bankruptcy Court while plaintiffs pursue an appeal of a decision that reversed the Bankruptcy 
Court’s denial of defendants’ motions to remand or abstain and pending developments in related appellate litigation 
in the BVI. 
There are many factors which may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the 
various Madoff-related proceedings, including but not limited to the circumstances of the fraud, the multiple 
jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in 
such proceedings. For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the 
aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all such claims but they could be 
significant. In any event, HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them 
vigorously. 
US mortgage-related investigations  
In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board 
following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices. These 
consent orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in 
the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work with the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board to align their processes with the requirements of the 
consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required. 
These consent orders require an independent review of foreclosures pending or completed between January 2009 and 
December 2010 (the ‘Foreclosure Review Period’) to determine if any customer was financially injured as a result of 
an error in the foreclosure process. Customer outreach efforts are required, including mailings to customers and 
industry media advertising, to notify borrowers with foreclosures pending or completed during the Foreclosure 
Review Period of the foreclosure complaint review process and their ability to request a review of their foreclosure 
proceeding. The costs associated with the foreclosure review include the costs of conducting the customer outreach 
plan and complaint process, and the cost of any resulting remediation. 
These consent orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or 
HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) 
or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating 
to the activities that are the subject of the consent orders. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated in a press release 
relating to the financial services industry in general that it believes monetary penalties are appropriate for the 
enforcement actions and that it plans to announce such penalties. An increase in private litigation concerning these 
practices is also possible.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
44 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
 
 
408 
It has been announced that the five largest US mortgage servicers (not including HSBC) have reached a settlement 
with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states with 
respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HNAH, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance have 
had preliminary discussions with bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, 
although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. Based on discussions to date, HSBC recognised 
provisions of US$257m in the fourth quarter of 2011 to reflect the estimated liability associated with a proposed 
settlement of this matter. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by 
state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing 
practices, including, but not limited to matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors, including the 
imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions. In addition, such a settlement would not 
preclude private litigation concerning these practices. 
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the 
subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups 
within the US mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, 
and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, 
HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various 
securitisation trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities 
and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While 
HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and the related liability are properly those of 
the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and 
similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. 
HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. have been named as defendants in a number of actions in 
connection with residential mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering 
documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including 
statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. These include an action 
filed in September 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. This action is one of a series of similar actions filed 
against 17 financial institutions alleging violations of federal securities laws and state statutory and common law in 
connection with the sale of private-label RMBS purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, primarily from 2005 to 
2008.  
HSBC Bank USA has received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) seeking production 
of documents and information relating to its involvement and the involvement of its affiliates in specified private-
label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. HSBC Bank 
USA has also had preliminary contacts with other government authorities exploring the role of trustees in private 
label RMBS transactions. HSBC Bank USA also received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s Office, Southern 
District of New York seeking production of documents and information relating to loss mitigation efforts with respect 
to residential mortgages in the State of New York and a Civil Investigative Demand from the Massachusetts State 
Attorney General seeking documents, information and testimony related to the sale of RMBS to public and private 
customers in the State of Massachusetts from January 2005 to the present. 
HSBC expects this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the US real estate markets 
continue to be distressed. As a result, HSBC Group companies may be subject to additional litigation and 
governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either 
individually or as a member of a group. HSBC is unable to estimate reliably the financial effect of any action or 
litigation relating to these matters. As situations develop it is possible that any related claims could be significant.  
Other US regulatory and law enforcement investigations 
In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the indirect parent of that company, HNAH, entered into a consent cease and desist order with 
the Federal Reserve Board. These actions require improvements for an effective compliance risk management 
programme across the Group’s US businesses, including US Bank Secrecy Act (‘BSA’) and Anti Money Laundering 
(‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of these Orders to ensure compliance, 
and that effective policies and procedures are maintained.  
The AML/BSA consent cease and desist orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank 
USA or HNAH by bank regulatory or law enforcement agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties,   
 
409 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
criminal fines and other sanctions relating to activities that are the subject of the AML/BSA cease and desist orders. 
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency in connection with AML/BSA compliance including cross-border transactions involving 
its remittance and its former bulk cash businesses. 
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ, the New York County District Attorney’s Office, 
the Office of Foreign Asset Control (‘OFAC’), the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
regarding historical transactions involving Iranian parties and other parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions.  
In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a summons from the US Internal Revenue Service directing HSBC Bank 
USA to produce records with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. While the summons 
was withdrawn voluntarily, HSBC Bank USA has cooperated fully by providing responsive documents in its 
possession in the US to the US Internal Revenue Service, and engaging in efforts to resolve these matters. 
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding 
whether certain Group companies acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting 
requirements.  
In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a subpoena from the SEC directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records 
in the US related to, among other things, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA’s cross-border policies and procedures and 
adherence to US broker-dealer and investment adviser rules and regulations when dealing with US resident clients. 
HSBC Bank USA continues to cooperate with the SEC.  
HSBC continues to cooperate with an investigation by the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations 
related to AML/BSA compliance, OFAC sanctions and compliance with US tax and securities laws. 
In each of these US regulatory and law enforcement matters, HSBC Group companies have received Grand Jury 
subpoenas or other requests for information from US Government or other agencies, and HSBC is cooperating fully 
and engaging in efforts to resolve matters. It is likely that there will be some form of formal enforcement action 
which may be criminal or civil in nature in respect of some or all of the ongoing investigations. Investigations of 
several other financial institutions in recent years for breaches of BSA, AML and OFAC requirements have resulted 
in settlements. Some of those settlements involved the filing of criminal charges, in some cases including agreements 
to defer prosecution of these charges, and the imposition of fines and penalties. Some of those fines and penalties 
have been significant depending on the individual circumstances of each action. The investigations are ongoing. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to determine the terms on which the 
ongoing investigations will be resolved or the timing of such resolution or for HSBC to estimate reliably the amounts, 
or range of possible amounts, of any fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that any fines and/or 
penalties could be significant. 
Investigations into the setting of London interbank offered rates and European interbank offered 
rates 
Various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world including in the UK, the US and 
the EU, are conducting investigations related to certain past submissions made by panel banks in connection with the 
setting of London interbank offered rates (‘LIBOR’) and European interbank offered rates. As certain HSBC entities 
are members of such panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory demands for 
information and are cooperating with their investigations. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named 
in putative class action lawsuits filed by private parties in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar LIBOR. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these 
regulatory investigations or putative class action lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact, if any, on 
HSBC.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
45 – Related party transactions  
 
 
410 
45 Related party transactions 
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment 
benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management 
Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family 
members. 
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC 
Holdings. 
Compensation of Key Management Personnel 
 HSBC 
 2011 2010 2009 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Short-term employee benefits ....................................................................................... 34 39 22 
Post-employment benefits ............................................................................................ 2 3 3 
Other long-term employee benefits .............................................................................. 7 1 – 
Share-based payments .................................................................................................. 53 49 27 
 96 92 52 
Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties 
Particulars of advances (loans and quasi-loans), credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC 
Holdings during 2011 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown 
below:  
 At 31 December 
 2011  2010 
  US$m   US$m 
Advances and credits .................................................................................................................................. 8   9 
 
Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below. 
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is 
considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of 
outstanding balances during the year. 
 2011 2010 
 
 Balance at 
 31 December 
 Highest 
 amounts 
 outstanding
 during year 
 Balance at 
 31 December  
 Highest 
 amounts 
 outstanding 
 during year 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Key Management Personnel
1
      
Advances and credits ...................................................................... 112  120  901   1,681 
Guarantees ...................................................................................... 12  12  27   31 
1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly 
controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. 
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions 
of those rules. The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same 
terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, 
where applicable, with other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or 
present other unfavourable features.   
 
411 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel  
 At 31 December 
 
 2011 
 (000s) 
  2010 
 (000s)
Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans ................... 545 602 
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially ............................... 15,384 13,395 
Number of HSBC Holdings preference shares held beneficially and non-beneficially ............................ – – 
Number of HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 held beneficially and non-beneficially ...... 300 – 
 16,229 13,997 
 
Transactions with other related parties of HSBC 
Associates and joint ventures 
The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, 
overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and 
joint ventures are given in Note 23. Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were 
as follows: 
 2011 2010 
 
 Highest 
 balance during
 the year
1
 Balance at
 31 December
1
 Highest  
 balance during 
 the year
1
  
 Balance at 
 31 December
1
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Amounts due from joint ventures:     
– subordinated .......................................................................... 6 5 5 5 
– unsubordinated ...................................................................... 459 441 514 412 
Amounts due from associates:      
– subordinated .......................................................................... – – 16 – 
– unsubordinated ...................................................................... 3,117 2,569 2,248 1,702 
 3,582 3,015 2,783  2,119 
Amounts due to joint ventures ...................................................... 195 133 151 134 
Amounts due to associates ............................................................ 587 475 700 527 
 782 608 851 661 
Commitments ................................................................................ 184 92 60 43 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to 
represent transactions during the year. 
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, 
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
Post-employment benefit plans 
At 31 December 2011, US$4.6bn (2010: US$4.7bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under 
management by HSBC companies. Fees of US$20m (2010: US$17m) were earned by HSBC companies for these 
management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans. HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had 
placed deposits of US$1.2bn (2010: US$1.8bn) with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the 
schemes amounted to US$3m (2010: US$4m). The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of 
business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions 
with third-party counterparties. 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the 
inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities. At 31 December 2011, the gross notional value of the swaps was 
US$24.9bn (2010: US$22.9bn), the swaps had a positive fair value of US$5.6bn (2010: positive fair value of 
US$2.2bn) to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$6.9bn (2010: US$3.3bn) to the scheme in respect 
of these swaps, on which HSBC earned no interest (2010: nil). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates 
and within standard market bid/offer spreads. 
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, there are special collateral provisions for the swap transactions 
between HSBC and the scheme. The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
45 – Related party transactions / 46 – Events after the balance sheet date  
 
 
412 
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that provides the Trustee with a high level of confidence 
that would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc. With the exception of the 
special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the 
scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
In June 2010 the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme used a special contribution by HSBC Bank plc of £1,760m 
(US$2,638m) which was made to accelerate the reduction of the deficit of the Scheme to acquire debt securities from 
HSBC in a transaction at an arm’s length value determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. In 
December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. 
Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value, 
determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. 
In December 2011 HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’) purchased asset-backed 
securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value of US$34m, determined by the Scheme’s independent third party 
advisers. This followed an agreement by HSBC Asia Holdings BV to make a contribution of the same amount to 
ISRBS. No gain or loss arose on the transaction. 
ISRBS entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities 
and selected assets. At 31 December 2011, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.7bn (2010: US$1.8bn) 
and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$297m to the scheme (2010: US$77m). No gain or loss arose on the 
transaction, which was conducted at an arm’s length value determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party 
advisers. 
HSBC Holdings 
Details of HSBC Holdings’ principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 26. Transactions and balances during the year 
with subsidiaries were as follows: 
 2011 2010 
 
 Highest 
 balance during
 the year
1
 Balance at
 31 December
1
 Highest 
 balance during 
 the year
1
 
 Balance at 
 31 December
1
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Assets      
Cash at bank .................................................................................... 471 316 459 459 
Derivatives ...................................................................................... 4,220 3,568 3,219 2,327 
Loans and advances ........................................................................ 28,821 28,048 23,212 21,238 
Financial investments ..................................................................... 2,093 1,078 2,606 2,025 
Investments in subsidiaries ............................................................. 93,008 90,621 92,899 92,899 
Total related party assets ................................................................ 128,613 123,631 122,395 118,948 
Liabilities     
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .......................................... 3,129 2,479 4,580 2,932 
Derivatives ...................................................................................... 1,181 1,067 1,677 827 
Subordinated liabilities:     
– at amortised cost ...................................................................... 2,609 2,437 3,907 2,464 
– designated at fair value ............................................................ 4,627 3,955 4,507 4,259 
Total related party liabilities ........................................................... 11,546 9,938 14,671 10,482 
Guarantees ...................................................................................... 49,527 49,402 46,988 46,988 
Commitments .................................................................................. 2,753 1,810 3,240 2,720 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest month-end balance during the year is considered the most meaningful 
information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and are 
on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties, 
with the exception of US$63m (2010: US$160m) in respect of loans to HSBC subsidiaries from HSBC Holdings and nil (2010: 
US$506m) in respect of loans from HSBC subsidiaries to HSBC Holdings made at an agreed zero per cent interest rate. 
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a 
separate Group company. HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into 
the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 7 to the accounts.  
 
413 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
46 Events after the balance sheet date 
On 24 January 2012, we announced an agreement to sell our banking operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and 
Honduras to Banco Davivienda S.A. (‘Davivienda’), a Colombian-listed banking group, for a total consideration of 
US$801m in cash. The transaction is subject to regulatory and other approvals and is expected to complete in the 
fourth quarter of 2012. The assets and associated liabilities of these operations were classified as held for sale at 
31 December 2011 (see Note 27). 
A fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately US$2,515m) was 
declared by the Directors after 31 December 2011. 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2012 and authorised for issue.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information  
Interim dividends / Shareholder profile / Annual General Meeting 
 
 
414 
Shareholder information 
Fourth interim dividend for 2011 ................................. 414
Interim dividends for 2012 ........................................... 414
Shareholder profile ....................................................... 415
Annual General Meeting .............................................. 415
Interim Management Statements and 
Interim Results ......................................................... 416
Shareholder enquiries and communications ................. 416
 
 
 
Stock symbols ............................................................... 417
Investor relations .......................................................... 417
Where more information about HSBC is available ...... 417
Organisational structure ................................................ 418
Taxation of shares and dividends ................................. 419
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking 
statements ................................................................ 422
Glossary and Index ....................................................... 423
 
Fourth interim dividend for 2011 
The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary share. Information on the 
scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to 
shareholders on or about 27 March 2012. The timetable for the dividend is: 
Announcement .................................................................................................................................................................... 27 February 2012
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda .......................................................................... 14 March 2012
ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York ............................................................................................................................ 14 March 2012
Record date in Hong Kong ................................................................................................................................................. 15 March 2012
Record date in London, New York, Paris and Bermuda
1
 .................................................................................................. 16 March 2012
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2011 and/or Annual Review 2011, Notice of Annual General Meeting  
and dividend documentation .......................................................................................................................................... 27 March 2012
Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations  
of standing instructions for scrip dividends ................................................................................................................... 19 April 2012
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars ................................................ 23 April 2012
Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed  
and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST ........................................................................................................... 2 May 2012
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date. 
Interim dividends for 2012 
The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares. Under this policy it is 
intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend. It is envisaged that 
the first interim dividend in respect of 2012 will be US$0.09 per ordinary share. The proposed timetables for the 
dividends in respect of 2012 are: 
 Interim dividends for 2012 
  First   Second   Third    Fourth 
Announcement ................................................... 30 April 2012  30 July 2012  9 October 2012  4 March 2013 
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London,  
Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda ................... 16 May 2012  15 August 2012  24 October 2012  20 March 2013 
ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York ........... 16 May 2012  15 August 2012  24 October 2012  20 March 2013 
Record date in Hong Kong ................................ 17 May 2012  16 August 2012  25 October 2012  21 March 2013 
Record date in London, New York, Paris and 
Bermuda
1
 ....................................................... 18 May 2012  17 August 2012  26 October 2012  22 March 2013 
Payment date ...................................................... 5 July 2012  4 October 2012  12 December 2012  8 May 2013 
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch Register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on these dates. 
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a 
combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Board’s determination that a scrip 
dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in 
lieu of a cash dividend.   
415 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Shareholder profile 
At 31 December 2011 the share register recorded the following details: 
Ordinary shares held 
 Number of  
 shareholders 
 Total
 shares held 
  
1-100 ........................................................................................................................................................ 34,733 1,067,341 
101-400 .................................................................................................................................................... 30,943 7,573,632 
401-500 .................................................................................................................................................... 8,040 3,622,372 
501-1,000 ................................................................................................................................................. 32,597 23,768,949 
1,001-5,000 .............................................................................................................................................. 72,770 170,449,966 
5,001-10,000 ............................................................................................................................................ 18,839 132,925,448 
10,001-20,000 .......................................................................................................................................... 10,923 152,501,184 
20,001-50,000 .......................................................................................................................................... 6,638 203,900,430 
50,001-200,000 ........................................................................................................................................ 3,239 300,236,172 
200,001-500,000 ...................................................................................................................................... 728 226,085,756 
500,001 and above ................................................................................................................................... 1,054 16,645,954,396 
Total ......................................................................................................................................................... 220,504 17,868,085,646 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2012 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on Friday, 
25 May 2012 at 11.00am.  
An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on Monday, 21 May 2012 
at 4.30pm. 
All resolutions considered at the 2011 Annual General Meeting were passed on a poll as follows: 
 Total votes 
Resolution  For
1
  Against   Vote withheld
2
1 To receive the Report and Accounts for 2010 .................................................. 8,402,552,510 121,753,797 8,933,799 
2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2010 .............................. 6,652,053,048 1,533,867,244 345,803,377 
3 To re-elect the following as Directors:    
 (a) S A Catz .................................................................................................... 8,486,056,759 42,942,731 4,216,052 
 (b) L M L Cha ................................................................................................ 8,504,179,153 24,913,796 4,042,906 
 (c) M K T Cheung .......................................................................................... 8,483,733,987 45,080,957 4,016,464 
 (d) J D Coombe .............................................................................................. 8,422,716,423 106,361,370 4,171,828 
 (e) R A Fairhead ............................................................................................ 8,409,921,019 28,560,255 94,165,150 
 (f) D J Flint .................................................................................................... 7,652,721,692 782,284,813 97,589,253 
 (g) A A Flockhart ........................................................................................... 8,510,224,707 19,041,066 3,951,542 
 (h) S T Gulliver .............................................................................................. 8,508,743,721 19,690,410 4,068,563 
 (i) J W J Hughes-Hallett ............................................................................... 8,471,725,040 57,260,985 4,166,213 
 (j) W S H Laidlaw ......................................................................................... 8,422,582,981 106,557,176 4,082,503 
 (k) J R Lomax ................................................................................................ 8,485,476,787 43,437,834 4,288,262 
 (l) I J Mackay ................................................................................................ 8,514,104,374 14,924,509 4,046,710 
 (m) G Morgan ................................................................................................. 7,528,102,732 1,000,850,178 4,176,157 
 (n) N R N Murthy .......................................................................................... 8,485,387,759 43,412,993 4,414,399 
 (o) Sir Simon Robertson ................................................................................ 8,509,368,189 18,917,076 4,756,190 
 (p) J L Thornton ............................................................................................. 7,811,758,522 639,498,922 80,247,625 
 (q) Sir Brian Williamson ................................................................................ 8,502,895,120 25,794,017 4,326,166 
4 To reappoint the Auditor at remuneration to be determined by the  
Group Audit Committee ............................................................................... 8,471,110,207 34,535,501 27,595,572 
5 To authorise the Directors to allot shares ......................................................... 8,361,978,479 164,736,911 6,526,785 
6 To disapply pre-emption rights (Special Resolution) ...................................... 8,410,136,124 114,104,282 9,000,469 
7 To approve the HSBC Share Plan 2011 …. ...................................................... 7,232,592,954 1,139,440,811 157,713,821 
8 To approve fees payable to non-executive Directors ....................................... 8,339,832,648 49,875,814 142,372,789 
9 To approve general meetings (other than annual general meetings) being 
called on 14 clear days’ notice (Special Resolution) ................................... 7,757,094,552 769,200,534 6,472,597 
1 Includes discretionary votes. 
2 A ‘Vote Withheld’ is not a ‘vote’ in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ the resolution.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued) 
IMS and Interim Results / Shareholder enquiries and communications / Stock symbols / Investor relations / Information 
 
 
416 
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 
Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 8 May 2012 and 5 November 2012. The 
Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2012 are expected to be issued on 30 July 2012. 
Shareholder enquiries and communications 
Enquiries 
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or 
address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The 
Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding 
electronically. 
Principal Register:  Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register:  Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 
Email via website: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus 
 Computershare Hong Kong Investor 
   Services Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th 
Floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East  
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
 Investors Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM 11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: 
hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Investor Centre: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk 
 Investor Centre: 
www.computershare.com/hk/investors 
 Investor Centre: 
www.computershare.com/investor/bm 
Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
PO Box 358516 
Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 
USA 
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for 
NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: 
HSBC France 
103, avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France 
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-do@hsbc.fr 
Website: www.hsbc.fr 
If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is 
important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains as it was (the registered 
shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf). Therefore any changes 
or queries relating to your personal details and holding (including any administration thereof) must continue to be 
directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing 
with matters directed to it in error. 
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2011 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: 
For those in Europe, the Middle East 
and Africa: 
 For those in Asia-Pacific:  For those in the Americas: 
Communications 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
 Communications (Asia) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited  
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong  
 Employee Communications 
HSBC – North America 
26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard 
Mettawa, Illinois 60045 
USA   
 
417 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Electronic communications 
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification 
of their availability on HSBC’s website. To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate 
communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by 
email, go to www.hsbc.com/ecomms. If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from 
HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email. If you received a notification of the 
availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy of it, or if you would like 
to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email to the appropriate 
Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge. 
Chinese translation 
A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2011 is available upon request after 27 March 2012 from 
the Registrars: 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th
 Floor  
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom  
Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have 
received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future. 
 
 
 
Stock symbols 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: 
London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC 
New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HBC   
Investor relations 
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to: 
  
  
  
  
Manager Investor Relations 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom  
SVP Investor Relations 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard 
Mettawa, Illinois 60045 
USA  
Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited 
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 44 (0)20 7991 8041  1 224 544 4400  852 2822 4908 
Facsimile:  44 (0)845 587 0225   1 224 552 4400  852 3418 4469 
Email:  investorrelations@hsbc.com  investor.relations.usa@us.hsbc.com  investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk 
 
Where more information about HSBC is available 
This Annual Report and Accounts 2011, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBC’s website: 
www.hsbc.com. 
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
are available at www.sec.gov. Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a 
duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., 
Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the Commission at 
(202) 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that 
HSBC Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Simplified structure chart of HSBC Holdings plc / T axation of shares and dividends > UK residents 
 
 
418 
 
 
   
419 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Taxation of shares and dividends 
Taxation – UK residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, of 
certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be 
material to the ownership and disposition of 
shares. The summary does not purport to be 
a comprehensive description of all the tax 
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of 
shares. In particular, the summary deals principally 
with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK 
for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold 
the shares as investments and who are the beneficial 
owners of the shares, and does not address the tax 
treatment of certain classes of holders such as 
dealers in securities. Holders and prospective 
purchasers should consult their own advisers 
regarding the tax consequences of an investment 
in shares in light of their particular circumstances, 
including the effect of any national, state or local 
laws. 
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 
HSBC Holdings. However, dividends are paid with 
an associated tax credit which is available for set-off 
by certain shareholders against any liability they 
may have to UK income tax. Currently, the 
associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the 
combined cash dividend and tax credit, i.e. one-ninth 
of the cash dividend. 
For individual shareholders who are resident 
in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK 
income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income 
tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from 
HSBC Holdings. Individual shareholders who are 
liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or 
additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of 
the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper 
rate (currently 32.5%) and the dividend additional 
rate (currently 42.5%), respectively. The tax credit is 
available for set-off against the dividend upper rate 
and the dividend additional rate liability. Individual 
UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax 
credit repayment. 
Although non-UK resident shareholders are 
generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax 
credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some 
such shareholders may be so entitled under the 
provisions of a double taxation agreement between 
their country of residence and the UK. However, in 
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, 
repayable. 
Information on the taxation consequences of the 
HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 
2010 fourth interim dividend and the first, second 
and third interim dividends for 2011 was set out in 
the Secretary’s letters to shareholders of 30 March, 
1 June, 31 August and 7 December 2011. In no 
case, was the difference between the cash dividend 
foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend 
in excess of 15% of the market value. Accordingly, 
the amount of the dividend income chargeable to 
tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings 
US$0.50 ordinary shares (the ‘shares’) for UK 
capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend 
foregone. 
Taxation of capital gains 
The computation of the capital gains tax liability 
arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings 
by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains 
can be complex, partly depending on whether, for 
example, the shares were purchased since April 
1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange 
for shares in other companies.  
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition 
cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account 
of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues. Any 
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company 
may also be adjusted to take account of indexation 
allowance. If in doubt, shareholders are 
recommended to consult their professional advisers. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of 
transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty 
at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the 
transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable 
by the transferee. 
An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest 
therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp 
duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the 
consideration. However, provided an instrument of 
transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the 
agreement and duly stamped before the date on 
which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, 
under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and 
Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp 
duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be 
cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally 
payable by the transferee. 
Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the 
UK’s paperless share transfer system, are liable to  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
T axation of shares and dividends > US residents  
 
 
420 
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the 
consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax 
is calculated and payment made automatically. 
Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be 
subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer 
into CREST is itself for consideration. Following the 
case HSBC pursued before the European Court of 
Justice (Case C-569/07 HSBC Holdings plc and 
Vidacos Nominees v The Commissioners for HM 
Revenue & Customs) HMRC now accepts that the 
charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue 
of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance 
service located within the European Union is 
prohibited.  
Taxation – US residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, of 
the principal UK tax and US federal income tax 
considerations that are likely to be material to the 
ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a 
holder that is a resident of the US for US federal 
income tax purposes (a ‘US holder’) and who is not 
resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax 
purposes. The summary does not purport to be a 
comprehensive description of all of the tax 
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of 
shares or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals 
only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as 
capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment 
of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such 
as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, 
dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold 
shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment 
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS 
and one or more other positions, and persons that 
own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the 
voting stock of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is 
based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and 
regulatory interpretations in effect on the date 
hereof, all of which are subject to change. Under the 
current income tax treaty between the UK and the 
US, US holders are no longer entitled to claim a 
special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends. 
Holders and prospective purchasers should 
consult their own advisers regarding the tax 
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs 
in light of their particular circumstances, including 
the effect of any national, state or local laws. 
Any US federal tax advice included in this 
Annual Report is for informational purposes only; 
it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot 
be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax 
penalties. 
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 
HSBC Holdings. A US holder must include cash 
dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary 
income on the date that such holder or the ADS 
depositary receives them, translating dividends paid 
in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the 
exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US 
holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash 
dividend must include in ordinary income the fair 
market value of such shares on the dividend payment 
date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such 
fair market value. 
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that 
are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and 
subject to a foreign corporation being considered a 
‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not 
being classified for US federal income tax purposes 
as a passive foreign investment company), certain 
dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an 
individual US holder before 2013 generally will be 
subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15%. 
Based on the company’s audited financial statements 
and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC 
Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a 
passive foreign investment company. Accordingly, 
dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally 
should be treated as qualified dividends. 
Taxation of capital gains 
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other 
disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be 
subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale 
or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or 
agency or permanent establishment and the shares or 
ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the 
purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch 
or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains 
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and 
will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs 
were held for more than one year. A long-term 
capital gain realised by an individual holder before 
2013 generally will be subject to US tax at a 
maximum rate of 15%. 
Inheritance tax 
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose 
domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes 
of the United States-United Kingdom Double 
Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes 
(the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such 
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any 
US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been   
 
421 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the 
individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of shares 
or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or 
ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the 
time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in 
the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) is 
part of the business property of a UK permanent 
establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertains to 
a UK fixed base of an individual used for the 
performance of independent personal services. In 
such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides 
a credit against US Federal tax liability for the 
amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the 
shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance 
tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – 
ADSs 
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or 
depository receipt (‘ADR’)  issuer located outside 
the European Union (which will include a transfer 
of shares to the Depository) UK stamp duty and/or 
stamp duty reserve tax will be payable. The stamp 
duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable 
on the consideration for the transfer and is payable 
at the aggregate rate of 1.5%. 
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable 
on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty 
paid in connection with the same transfer. 
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer 
of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that 
the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or 
written agreement to transfer remain at all times 
outside the UK, and provided further that any such 
transfer or written agreement to transfer is not 
executed in the UK. No stamp duty reserve tax will 
be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. 
US backup withholding tax and information 
reporting 
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds 
from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within 
the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to 
US holders, are subject to information reporting and 
may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax 
unless, in general, the US holder complies with 
certain certification procedures or is a corporation or 
other person exempt from such withholding. Holders 
that are not US persons generally are not subject to 
information reporting or backup withholding tax, 
but may be required to comply with applicable 
certification procedures to establish that they are not 
US persons in order to avoid the application of such 
information reporting requirements or backup 
withholding tax to payments received within the 
US or through certain financial intermediaries. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements / Glossary 
 
 
422 
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements 
The Annual Report and Accounts 2011 contains 
certain forward-looking statements with respect to 
HSBC’s financial condition, results of operations 
and business. 
Statements that are not historical facts, including 
statements about HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, 
are forward-looking statements. Words such as 
‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, 
‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and ‘reasonably 
possible’, variations of these words and similar 
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on current 
plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue 
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-
looking statements speak only as of the date they are 
made. HSBC makes no commitment to revise or 
update any forward-looking statements to reflect 
events or circumstances occurring or existing after 
the date of any forward-looking statements. 
Written and/or oral forward-looking statements 
may also be made in the periodic reports to the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary 
financial statements to shareholders, proxy statements, 
offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases 
and other written materials, and in oral statements 
made by HSBC’s Directors, officers or employees to 
third parties, including financial analysts. 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent 
risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a 
number of factors could cause actual results to differ, 
in some instances materially, from those anticipated 
or implied in any forward-looking statement. These 
include, but are not limited to:  
• changes in general economic conditions in the 
markets in which we operate, such as continuing 
or deepening recessions and fluctuations in 
employment beyond those factored into 
consensus forecasts; changes in foreign 
exchange rates and interest rates; volatility in 
equity markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale 
funding markets; illiquidity and downward price 
pressure in national real estate markets; adverse 
changes in central banks’ policies with respect 
to the provision of liquidity support to financial 
markets; heightened market concerns over 
sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted 
countries; adverse changes in the funding status  
of public or private defined benefit pensions; 
and consumer perception as to the continuing 
availability of credit and price competition in 
the market segments we serve; 
• changes in government policy and regulation, 
including the monetary, interest rate and other 
policies of central banks and other regulatory 
authorities; initiatives to change the size, 
scope of activities and interconnectedness of 
financial institutions in connection with the 
implementation of stricter regulation of financial 
institutions in key markets worldwide; revised 
capital and liquidity benchmarks which could 
serve to deleverage bank balance sheets and 
lower returns available from the current business 
model and portfolio mix; imposition of levies or 
taxes designed to change business mix and risk 
appetite; the practices, pricing or responsibilities 
of financial institutions serving their consumer 
markets; expropriation, nationalisation, 
confiscation of assets and changes in legislation 
relating to foreign ownership; changes in 
bankruptcy legislation in the principal markets 
in which we operate and the consequences 
thereof; general changes in government policy 
that may significantly influence investor 
decisions; extraordinary government actions as a 
result of current market turmoil; other 
unfavourable political or diplomatic 
developments producing social instability or 
legal uncertainty which in turn may affect 
demand for our products and services; the costs, 
effects and outcomes of product regulatory 
reviews, actions or litigation, including any 
additional compliance requirements; and the 
effects of competition in the markets where we 
operate including increased competition from 
non-bank financial services companies, 
including securities firms; and 
• factors specific to HSBC, including our success 
in adequately identifying the risks we face, such 
as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, 
and managing those risks (through account 
management, hedging and other techniques). 
Effective risk management depends on, among 
other things, our ability through stress testing 
and other techniques to prepare for events that 
cannot be captured by the statistical models it 
uses; and our success in addressing operational, 
legal and regulatory, and litigation challenges.    
 
423 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Glossary 
Abbreviation Brief description 
A 
 
ABS
1
 Asset-backed security 
ADR American Depositary Receipt 
ADS American Depositary Share 
Advance HSBC Advance, a global banking proposition for the mass-affluent segment of customers 
AIEA Average interest-earning assets 
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee 
AML Anti-money laundering 
ARM Adjustable-rate mortgage 
ATM Automated teller machine 
B  
Bao Viet BaoViet Holdings, an insurance and financial services company in Vietnam 
Barion Barion Funding Limited, a term funding vehicle 
Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
Basel I  1988 Basel Capital Accord 
Basel II
1
 2006 Basel Capital Accord 
Basel III
1
 Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules 
BBA British Bankers’ Association 
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, mainland China’s fourth largest bank by market capitalisation 
Bps Basis points. One basis point is equal to one hundredth of a percentage point 
Brazilian operations HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.–Banco Múltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Serviços e Participações Limitada 
C  
CARD Act Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act, US 
CD Certificate of deposit 
CDS
1
 Credit default swap 
CDO
1
 Collateralised debt obligation 
CDPC Credit derivative product companies 
CGU Cash-generating unit 
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business 
CML Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio in the US, comprising Consumer Lending and Mortgage 
Services business in run-off 
Consumer and Mortgage 
Lending Portfolio 
A portfolio of assets in run-off in the US derived from the Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services 
businesses 
CP
1
 Commercial paper 
CPI Consumer price index 
CRR
1
 Customer risk rating 
CVA Credit valuation adjustment 
D  
Dodd-Frank The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act 
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and investment contracts 
DVA Debit valuation adjustment 
E  
EBA European Banking Authority 
EL Expected loss 
EPS  Earnings per share  
EU European Union 
F  
Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association, US 
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, US 
FSA Financial Services Authority (UK) 
FTSE Financial Times – Stock Exchange index 
G  
G20 Leaders, Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty 
GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business 
GDP Gross domestic product 
Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association, US 
Global Markets HSBC’s treasury and capital markets services in Global Banking and Markets 
GMB Group Management Board 
GPB Global Private Banking 
GPSP Group Performance Share Plan (which is part of the HSBC Share Plan 2011) 
Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings 
G-SIFI Global Systemically Important Financial Institution  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Glossary 
 
 
424 
Abbreviation Brief description 
H  
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks 
HELoC
1
 Home equity lines of credit 
HFC  HFC Bank Limited, the UK-based consumer finance business acquired through the acquisition by HSBC 
of HSBC Finance 
HIBOR Hong Kong Interbank Offer Rate 
HNAH HSBC North American Holdings Inc.  
Hong Kong The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings 
HSBC Assurances HSBC Assurances, comprising Erisa S.A., the French life insurer, and Erisa I.A.R.D., the property and 
casualty insurer (together, formerly Erisa) 
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc, formerly Midland Bank plc 
HSBC Bank Argentina HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. 
HSBC Bank Bermuda HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited formerly The Bank of Bermuda Limited 
HSBC Bank Malaysia HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 
HSBC Bank Middle East HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, formerly The British Bank of the Middle East 
HSBC Bank USA HSBC’s retail bank in the US, HSBC Bank USA, N.A. (formerly HSBC Bank USA, Inc.) 
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance company (formerly Household International, Inc.) 
HSBC France HSBC’s French banking subsidiary, formerly CCF S.A. 
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC  
HSBC Mexico HSBC México S.A., the commercial banking subsidiary of Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 
HSBC Premier HSBC’s premium global banking service 
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) S.A., HSBC’s private bank in Switzerland 
I  
IAS International Accounting Standard 
IASB International Accounting Standards Board 
ICB Independent Commission on Banking 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards 
Industrial Bank Industrial Bank Co. Limited, a national joint-stock bank in mainland China held by Hang Seng Bank 
IPO Initial public offering 
IRB
1
 Internal ratings-based 
K  
KPI Key performance indicator 
KPMG KPMG Audit Plc and its affiliates 
L  
LGD
1
 Loss given default 
LIBOR London Interbank Offer Rate 
LTV Loan to value ratio 
M 
 
Madoff Securities Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC 
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong 
Malachite Malachite Funding Limited, a term funding vehicle 
Mazarin Mazarin Funding Limited, an asset-backed CP conduit 
MBS
1
 US mortgage-backed security 
Monoline
1
 Monoline insurance company 
MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International index 
N 
 
NYSE New York Stock Exchange 
O 
 
OFAC Office of Foreign Asset Control 
OTC
1
 Over-the-counter 
P 
 
PD
1
 Probability of default 
Performance Shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to corporate 
performance conditions 
Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited, the second-largest life insurer in the PRC 
PPI Payment protection insurance product 
PRC People’s Republic of China 
Premier See HSBC Premier 
PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
   
 
425 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Abbreviation Brief description 
R  
RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business 
Repo Sale and repurchase transaction 
Restricted Shares Awards of Restricted Shares define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee 
will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally 
subject to the individual remaining in employment  
Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell 
Risk Management Meeting The Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board 
RPI Retail price index (UK) 
RWA Risk-weighted asset 
S 
 
S&P Standard and Poor’s rating agency 
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US) 
SIC Securities investment conduit 
SIV
1
 Structured investment vehicle 
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise 
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed by HSBC 
SPE
1
 Special purpose entity 
T 
 
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, the founding member of the HSBC Group 
TSR Total shareholder return 
U 
 
UAE United Arab Emirates 
UK United Kingdom 
US United States of America 
US run-off portfolio Includes our CML, vehicle finance and Taxpayer Financial Services businesses and insurance, 
commercial, corporate and treasury activities in HSBC Finance on an IFRSs management basis 
V 
 
VAR
1
 Value at risk 
Visa Visa Inc. 
1 Full definition included in Glossary of Terms on page 431.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Glossary 
 
 
426 
Term Definition 
A 
 
Adjustable-rate mortgages 
(‘ARM’s) 
Mortgage loans in the US on which the interest rate is periodically changed based on a reference price. 
These are included within ‘affordability mortgages’.  
Affordability mortgages Mortgage loans where the customer’s monthly payments are set out at a low initial rate, either variable or 
fixed, before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period is over. 
Agency exposures Exposures to near or quasi-government agencies including public sector entities fully owned by 
government carrying out non-commercial activities, provincial and local government authorities, 
development banks and funds set up by government. 
Alt-A A US description for loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk characteristics than 
lending under normal criteria. 
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears (or in a state of delinquency) when they are behind in fulfilling their 
obligations, with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue. When a customer is in arrears, 
the total outstanding loans on which payments are overdue are described as delinquent. 
Asset-backed securities  
(‘ABS’s) 
Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets. The referenced pool can 
comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential 
or commercial mortgages.  
B 
 
Back-testing A statistical technique used to monitor and assess the accuracy of a model, and how that model would 
have performed had it been applied in the past. 
Bail-in/-inable debt Bail-in refers to imposition of losses at the point of non viability (but before insolvency) on bank liabilities 
(bail-inable debt) that are not exposed to losses while the institution remains a viable, going concern. 
Whether by way of write-down or conversion into equity, this has the effect of recapitalising the bank 
(although it does not provide any new funding). 
Bank levy A levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January
2011. The amount payable is based on a percentage of the group’s consolidated liabilities and equity as 
at 31 December 2011 after deducting certain items the most material of which are those related to 
insured deposit balances, tier 1 capital, insurance liabilities, high quality liquid assets and items subject 
to a legally enforceable net settlement agreement. 
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in 
the form of the ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards’, amended 
by subsequent changes to the capital requirements for market risk and re-securitisations, commonly 
known as Basel 2.5, which took effect 31 December 2011. 
Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued ‘Basel III rules: A global regulatory framework for more 
resilient banks and banking systems’ and ‘International framework for liquidity risk measurement, 
standards and monitoring’. Together these documents present the Basel Committee’s reforms to 
strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector. 
In June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to the former document setting out the finalised 
capital treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral trades. The Basel III requirements will be 
phased in starting on 1 January 2013 with full implementation by 1 January 2019. 
C 
 
Capital conservation buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, and designed to ensure banks build up capital 
buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s 
capital levels fall within the capital conservation buffer range, capital distributions will be constrained 
by the regulators.  
Capital planning buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by the FSA under Basel II, and designed to ensure banks build up capital 
buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s 
capital levels fall within the capital planning buffer range, a period of heightened regulatory interaction 
would be triggered.  
Collateralised debt obligation 
(‘CDO’) 
A security issued by a third-party which references ABSs and/or certain other related assets purchased by 
the issuer. CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets. 
Collectively assessed  
impairment 
Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered 
individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified 
on loans subject to individual assessment. 
Commercial paper (‘CP’) An unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts 
receivable, inventories and meeting short-term liabilities. The debt is usually issued at a discount, 
reflecting prevailing market interest rates. 
Commercial real estate Any real estate investment, comprising buildings or land, intended to generate a profit, either from capital 
gain or rental income. 
Common equity tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III that comprises common shares issued and 
related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, 
less specified regulatory adjustments. 
   
 
427 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages multi-seller conduits and securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s). The multi-
seller conduits hold interests in diversified pools of third-party assets such as vehicle loans, trade 
receivables and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of short-dated commercial paper 
and supported by a liquidity facility. The SICs hold predominantly asset-backed securities referencing 
such items as commercial and residential mortgages, vehicle loans and credit card receivables funded 
through the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt. 
Constant net asset value fund A fund that prices its assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the portfolio 
remaining within 50 basis points of its market value. 
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment (principal or interest) of any financial instrument is due to be paid, at 
which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid. 
Core tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital that comprises total shareholders’ equity and related non-
controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments. 
Countercyclical capital buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which aims to ensure that capital requirements 
take account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate. This will provide the banking 
sector with additional capital to protect it against potential future losses, when excess credit growth in 
the financial system as a whole is associated with an increase in system-wide risk. 
Credit default swap A derivative contract whereby a buyer pays a fee to a seller in return for receiving a payment in the event 
of a defined credit event (e.g. bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades 
by a rating agency) on an underlying obligation (which may or may not be held by the buyer). 
Credit derivative product 
companies (‘CDPC’s) 
Independent companies that specialise in selling credit default protection on corporate exposures in the 
form of credit derivatives. 
Credit enhancements Facilities used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.  
Credit risk Risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract. It arises 
mainly from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from products such as 
guarantees, derivatives and debt securities. 
Credit valuation adjustment An adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the creditworthiness of OTC 
derivative counterparties. Formerly described as Credit Risk Adjustment. 
Credit risk mitigation A technique to reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure by application of credit risk mitigants 
such as collateral, guarantee and credit protection. 
Credit risk spread The premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower credit quality. 
The yield spread between securities with the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different 
associated credit risks. The yield spread rises as the credit rating worsens.  
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders. Such funds are recorded as liabilities. 
Customer remediation Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or 
damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations. Customer remediation is initiated by 
HSBC in response to customer complaints, and not specifically initiated by regulatory action. 
Customer risk rating (‘CRR’) A scale of 23 grades measuring internal obligor probability of default. 
D 
 
Debit valuation adjustment An adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value 
the entity’s own credit risk. 
Debt restructuring A restructuring by which the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed. This is 
often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt. It can 
involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction. 
Debt securities Assets on the Group’s balance sheet representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public 
bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks. 
Debt securities in issue Transferable certificates of indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certificates. These are liabilities 
of the Group and include certificates of deposits. 
Deed-in-lieu An arrangement in which a borrower surrenders the deed for a property to the lender without going 
through foreclosure proceedings and is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Defined benefit obligation The present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan 
resulting from employee service. 
Delinquency See ‘Arrears’. 
E 
 
Economic capital The internally calculated capital requirement which is deemed necessary by HSBC to support the risks to 
which it is exposed. 
Economic profit The difference between the return on financial capital invested by shareholders and the cost of that 
capital. Economic profit may be expressed as a whole number or as a percentage. 
Equity risk The risk arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based instruments, which create 
exposure to a change in the market price of the equities or equity instruments. 
Expected loss (‘EL’) A regulatory calculation of the amount expected to be lost on an exposure using a 12 month time horizon 
and downturn loss estimates. EL is calculated by multiplying the Probability of Default (a percentage) 
by the Exposure at Default (an amount) and Loss Given Default (a percentage). 
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Glossary 
 
 
428 
Term Definition 
F 
 
Exposure at default (‘EAD’) The amount expected to be outstanding after any credit risk mitigation, if and when the counterparty 
defaults. EAD reflects drawn balances as well as allowance for undrawn amounts of commitments and 
contingent exposures. 
Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique 
(level 2 and level 3) to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that 
are not incorporated within the valuation model. 
First lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that places its 
holder first in line to collect repayment from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a 
default on the debt. 
Five filters An internal measure designed to improve capital deployment across the Group. This examines the 
strategic relevance of each business in each country, in terms of connectivity and economic 
development, and the current returns, in terms of profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity. 
Forbearance strategies Strategies that are employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise 
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. Such arrangements 
include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external 
debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, other modifications and 
re-ages. 
FSA standard rules The method prescribed by the FSA for calculating market risk capital requirements in the absence of 
VAR model approval. 
Funded exposures A funded exposure is one where the notional amount of a contract is or has been exchanged. 
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be 
obtained at the expected terms and when required. 
G 
 
Global Systemically Important 
Bank (‘G-SIB’) 
A bank that meets the criteria defined in the Basel Committee's final rules set out in their 4 November 
2011 document ‘Global systemically important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional 
loss absorbency requirement’. At 31 December 2011, the official list of such banks comprised the 29 
names, which include HSBC, published by the Financial Stability Board also on 4 November 2011. 
The Financial Stability Board is co-ordinating, on behalf of the G20 Group of Governors and Heads 
of Supervision (‘GHOS’), the overall set of measures to reduce the moral hazard and risks to the global 
financial system posed by global systemically important financial institutions (‘G-SIFI’s) of all kinds. 
Government-sponsored 
enterprises (‘GSE’s) 
A group of financial services enterprises created by the US Congress. Their function is to reduce the cost 
of capital for certain borrowing sectors of the economy, and to make them more efficient and 
transparent. Examples in the residential mortgage borrowing segment are Freddie Mac and Fannie 
Mae. GSEs carry the implicit backing, but are not direct obligations, of the US Government. 
GPSP Awards Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become 
entitled, generally five years from the date of the award, and normally subject to individual remaining 
in employment. The shares to which the employee becomes entitled are subject to a retention 
requirement until cessation of employment. 
H 
 
Historical rating transition  
matrices (‘HRTM’) 
HRTMs show the probability of a counterparty with a particular rating moving to a different rating over a 
defined time horizon. 
Home Equity Lines of Credit 
(‘HELoC’s) 
A form of revolving credit facility provided to US customers, which is supported in the majority of cases 
by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property. Holdings of HELOCs are classified 
as sub-prime. 
I 
 
Impaired loans Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them 
later than they are contractually due. 
Impairment allowances  Management’s best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date. 
Individually assessed  
impairment 
Exposure to loss is assessed on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not 
qualify for collective assessment.   
Insurance risk A risk, other than a financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the insurance provider. The 
principal insurance risk is that, over time, the combined cost of claims, administration and acquisition 
of the contract may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. 
Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process  
The Group’s own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its 
risk profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints. 
Internal Model Method (‘IMM’) One of three approaches defined by Basel II to determine exposure values for counterparty credit risk. 
Internal ratings-based approach 
(‘IRB’) 
A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates 
of risk parameters. 
Invested capital Equity capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill 
previously amortised or written off. 
IRB advanced approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD, LGD and EAD models. 
   
 
429 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
IRB foundation approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD models but with supervisory 
estimates of LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD. 
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association. 
ISDA Master agreement Standardised contract developed by ISDA used as an umbrella under which bilateral derivatives contracts 
are entered into. 
K 
 
Key management personnel Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. 
L 
 
Legacy credit A portfolio of assets comprising Solitaire, SICs, ABS trading and correlation portfolios and derivative 
transactions entered into with monoline insurers. 
Legal proceedings Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC 
companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in 
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. 
Level 1 – quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. 
Level 2 – valuation technique 
using observable inputs 
Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for 
identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models 
where all significant inputs are observable. 
Level 3 – valuation technique 
with significant unobservable 
inputs 
Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are 
unobservable. 
Leveraged finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from sub-
investment grade acquisitions or event-driven financing. 
Leverage ratio A measure, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposures. 
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and should 
generally follow the accounting measure of exposure. This supplementary measure to the risk-based 
capital requirements is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector. 
Liquidity risk The risk that HSBC does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or 
will have to do so at an excessive cost. This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows. 
Loan modification An account management action that results in a change to the original terms and conditions of a loan 
either temporarily or permanently without resetting its delinquency status, except in case of a 
‘modification re-age’ where delinquency status is also reset to up-to-date. Account modifications may 
include revisions to one or more terms of the loan including, but not limited to, a change in interest rate, 
extension of the amortisation period, reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment 
of principal. 
Loan re-age An account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an 
account to up-to-date upon fulfilment of certain requirements which indicate that payments are 
expected to be made in accordance with the contractual terms. 
Loans past due Loans on which repayments are overdue. 
Loan-to-value ratio (‘LTV’) A mathematical calculation that expresses the amount of the loan as a percentage of the value of security. 
A high LTV indicates that there is less cushion to protect the lender against house price falls or 
increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding loan balance. 
Loss given default (‘LGD’) The estimated ratio (percentage) of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default (EAD) 
upon default of a counterparty. 
Loss severity The realised amount of losses incurred (including ancillary amounts owed) when a loan is foreclosed or 
disposed of through the arrangement with the borrower. The loss severity is represented as a 
percentage of the outstanding loan balance. 
M 
 
Market risk The risk that movements in market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, 
interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices will reduce income or portfolio values. 
Medium term notes (‘MTNs’) Notes issued by corporates across a range of maturities. MTNs are frequently issued by corporates under 
MTN Programmes whereby notes are offered on a regular and continuous basis to investors. 
Monoline insurers  
(‘monolines’) 
Entities which specialise in providing credit protection to the holders of debt instruments in the event of 
default by the debt security counterparty. This protection is typically held in the form of derivatives 
such as CDS’s referencing the underlying exposures held. 
Mortgage-backed securities 
(‘MBS’s) 
Securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages, which may be on residential or commercial 
properties. Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments 
(interest and/or principal). When the MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the MBS 
is classified according to the highest risk class.  
Mortgage-related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages. 
Mortgage vintage The year a mortgage was originated. 
N 
 
Negative equity mortgages Equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan. Negative equity arises when the 
value of the property purchased is below the balance outstanding on the loan.  
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Glossary 
 
 
430 
Term Definition 
Net asset value per share Total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the 
number of ordinary shares in issue. 
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets net of interest paid or payable on liabilities. 
Net principal exposure The gross principal amount of a financial asset after taking account of credit protection purchased but 
excluding the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection. It includes 
assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 
Non-conforming mortgages US mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. Examples include mortgages where the expected 
level of documentation is not provided (such as with income self-certification), or where poor credit 
history increases the risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate. 
O 
 
Offset mortgages A flexible type of mortgage where a borrower's savings balance(s) held at the same institution can be 
used to offset the mortgage balance owing. The borrower pays interest on the net balance which is 
calculated by subtracting the credit balance(s) from the debit balance. As part of the offset mortgage a 
total facility limit is agreed and the borrower may redraw past capital repayments up this agreed limit. 
Overnight Index Swap (‘OIS’) 
discounting 
A method of valuing collateralised interest rate derivatives which uses a discount curve that reflects the 
overnight interest rate typically earned or paid in respect of collateral received.  
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from 
external events, including legal risk. 
Over-the-counter (‘OTC’) A bilateral transaction (e.g. derivatives) that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation 
models. 
P 
 
Performance Shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to the 
achievement of corporate performance conditions. 
Prime A US description for mortgages granted to the most creditworthy category of borrowers. 
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange, often involving the investment 
of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in its delisting. 
Probability of default (‘PD’) The probability that an obligor will default within a one-year time horizon. 
R 
 
Refi rate The refi (or refinancing) rate is set by the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) and is the price banks pay to 
borrow from ECB. 
Regulatory capital The capital which HSBC holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the FSA for the 
consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies. 
Regulatory matters Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the 
actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. 
Renegotiated loans Loans for which the contractual terms have been changed because of significant concerns about the 
borrower’s ability to meet the contractual payments when due.  
Restricted Shares Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become 
entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the 
individual remaining in employment. The shares to which the employee becomes entitled may be 
subject to retention requirement. 
Retail loans Money lent to individuals rather than institutions. This includes both secured and unsecured loans such as 
mortgages and credit card balances. 
Return on equity Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average invested capital. 
Risk appetite An assessment of the types and quantum of risks to which HSBC wishes to be exposed. 
Risk-weighted assets  
(‘RWA’s) 
Calculated by assigning a degree of risk expressed as a percentage (risk weight) to an exposure in 
accordance with the applicable Standardised or IRB approach rules. 
S 
 
Sale and repurchase agreement A repo is a short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling 
a financial asset to a lender. As part of the agreement the borrower commits to repurchase the security 
at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan. For the party on the other end of the 
transaction (buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future) it is reverse repurchase agreement or 
a reverse repo. 
Seasoning The emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time. 
Second lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that is issued 
against the same collateral as a first lien but that is subordinate to it. In the case of default, repayment 
for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid. 
Securitisation A transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure, or pool of exposures, is 
tranched and where payments to investors in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the 
performance of the exposure or pool of exposures. A traditional securitisation involves the transfer of 
the exposures being securitised to an SPE which issues securities. In a synthetic securitisation, the 
tranching is achieved by the use of credit derivatives and the exposures are not removed from the 
balance sheet of the originator. 
   
 
 
431 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Short sale In relation to credit risk management, a ‘short sale’ is an arrangement in which a bank permits the 
borrower to sell the property for less than the amount outstanding under a loan agreement. The 
proceeds are used to reduce the outstanding loan balance and the borrower is subsequently released 
from any further obligations on the loan. 
Single-issuer liquidity facility A liquidity or stand-by line provided to a corporate customer which is different from a similar line 
provided to a conduit funding vehicle. 
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures 
on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.  
Special purpose entities  
(‘SPE’s) 
A corporation, trust or other non-bank entity, established for a narrowly defined purpose, including for 
carrying on securitisation activities. The structure of the SPE and its activities are intended to isolate its 
obligations from those of the originator and the holders of the beneficial interests in the securitisation. 
Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit 
Assessment Institutions (‘ECAI’) ratings and supervisory risk weights. In relation to operational risk, a 
method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined 
percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines. 
Structured finance / notes An instrument whose return is linked to the level of a specified index or the level of a specified asset. The 
return on a structured note can be linked to equities, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities or 
credit. Structured notes may or may not offer full or partial capital protection in the event of a decline in 
the underlying index or asset. 
Structured Investment Vehicles 
(‘SIV’s) 
 
Special purpose entities which invest in diversified portfolios of interest-earning assets, generally funded 
through issues of commercial paper, medium-term notes and other senior debt to take advantage of the 
spread differentials between the assets in the SIV and the funding cost. 
Student loan related assets Securities with collateral relating to student loans. 
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or 
liquidation. 
Sub-prime  A US description for customers with high credit risk, for example those who have limited credit histories, 
modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios (for real estate secured products) 
or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy 
or other credit-related problems. 
T 
 
Tier 1 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital. Other tier 1 capital 
includes qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid 
capital securities. 
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-
controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the 
fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves 
arising from the revaluation of properties. 
Troubled debt restructuring A US description for restructuring a debt whereby the creditor for economic or legal reasons related to a 
debtor’s financial difficulties grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. 
U 
 
Unfunded exposures An exposure where the notional amount of a contract has not been exchanged. 
US Government agency and US 
Government sponsored 
enterprises mortgage-related 
assets 
Securities that are guaranteed by US Government agencies such as Ginnie Mae, or by US Government 
sponsored entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
V 
 
Value-at-risk  
(‘VAR’) 
A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk 
factors (e.g. rates, prices, volatilities) over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. 
W 
 
Wholesale loans Money lent to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and corporate entities. 
Write-down Reduction in the carrying value of an asset due to impairment or fair value movements. 
Wrong-way risk An adverse correlation between the counterparty’s probability of default and the mark-to-market value of 
the underlying transaction. 
  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Index  
 
 
432 
Index 
 
A 
Accounting  
developments (future) 293 
policies (critical) 38 
policies (significant) 38, 294 
Accounts  
approval 413 
basis of preparation 42, 291 
consolidation 292 
presentation of information 291 
use of estimates 292 
Acquisitions and disposals 369 
Actuarial assumptions 324 
Annual bonus 260 
Annual General Meeting 248, 415 
Areas of special interest 112 
Asset-backed securities 151 
Assets 33 
average balance sheet 20 
by country 341 
by geographical region 59 
by global business 43, 341 
charged as security 392 
deferred tax 331 
five years 32 
held for sale 105, 379 
accounting policy 312 
held in custody and under administration 94 
intangible  
maturity analysis 391 
other 380 
trading 345 
underlying/reported reconciliation 35 
Associates and joint ventures 371 
interests in 369 
share of profit in 31 
transactions with 411 
Auditors’ remuneration 325 
Auditors’ Report 276 
B 
Balance sheet  
average 20 
consolidated 32, 281 
data 57, 64, 75, 80, 86, 92, 340 
HSBC Holdings 286 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 173 
underlying/reported reconciliation 35 
Bancassurance 171 
Bank levy 101 
Basel 213  
Board of Directors 5, 225 
balance and independence 226 
committees 230 
meetings 226 
powers 225 
Brand 6, 15 
Business model 10, 149 
C  
Calendar (dividends) 414 
Capital 211 
future developments 212, measurement and allocation 215, 
overview 211, regulatory 216, resources 32, return on 
invested capital 3, risk 99, structure 214 
Capital and performance ratios 2, 3 
Cash flow  
accounting policy 312 
consolidated statement 282 
 
 
HSBC Holdings 287 
notes 397 
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking  
statements 422 
Client assets 54 
Collateral and credit enhancements 144, 393 
Commercial Banking 44, 48 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Commercial real estate 119 
Committees (Board) 230 
Communication with shareholders 254, 416 
Compliance risk 203 
Concentration of exposure 108, 190 
Conduits 150, 403 
Constant currency 16 
Contents inside front cover 
Contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 399 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 158 
Core tier 1 capital 14, 32 
Corporate governance  
codes 229, report 218 
Corporate sustainability committee 239 
Cost efficiency ratio 3, 14, 30, 57, 64, 69, 75, 80, 86, 92 
Credit cards 125 
Credit coverage ratios 3 
Credit exposure 105 
Credit quality 189 
classifications 191 
Credit risk 104 
in 2011 104 
insurance 177, 207 
management thereof 189 
Critical accounting policies 38 
Cross-border exposures 190 
Customer accounts (by country) 36 
Customer recommendation 15 
D 
Daily distribution of revenues 164 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings plc shares 255 
Debt securities in issue 359, 381 
accounting policy 311 
Deferred bonus arrangements 95 
Defined terms inside front cover 
Deposits 158, 359 
accounting policy 311 
average balances and average rates 20 
Derivatives 147, 361 
accounting policy 303 
Directors  
appointments and re-election 225, 228 
biographies 218 
Board of Directors 225 
bonus 260 
composition of reward 259 
emoluments 265, 325 
fees 269 
interests 252  
non-executive 268 
other directorships 268  
pensions 267, 271 
performance evaluation 228 
remuneration (executive) 259, 265 
responsibilities (statement of) 226, 275 
service contracts 268 
share plans 261 
Disposal groups 379, 383 
Diversity and inclusion 244 
Dividends 253, 334, 414 
per share 15, 18 
   
 
433 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
E 
Earnings per share 2, 15, 18, 335 
Economic background 
Europe 60, Hong Kong 66, Latin America 89,  
Middle East and North Africa 77,  
North America 82, Rest of Asia-Pacific 71 
Economic profit 37, 265 
Efficiency and revenue mix ratios 3 
Employees 243 
compensation and benefits 269, 316 
disabled 244 
diversity and inclusion 244 
engagement 14 
numbers 29, 243, 316 
remuneration policy 245 
Encumbered assets 160 
Enquiries (from shareholders) 416 
Equity 34 
Equity securities 165 
Europe 
balance sheet data 69, 340 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 60 
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
principal operations 60 
profit/(loss) 60, 64, 337 
profit/(loss) by country 61 
review of business performance 60 
risk-weighted assets 59 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Eurozone  
exposures 113, 121 
risk 99 
Events after the balance sheet date 413 
Exposures 105, 108, 112, 149 
F 
Fair value 346 
accounting policy 300 
adjustments 348 
governance structure 347 
valuation bases 351 
Fee income (net) 22 
Financial assets  
accounting policy 269, 305 
designated at fair value 360 
not qualifying for de-recognition 368 
reclassification 359 
Financial assets and liabilities  
accounting policy 40, 305 
by measurement basis 341 
Financial guarantee contracts  
accounting policy 309 
Financial highlights 2 
Financial instruments 346 
accounting policy (fair value) 300 
accounting policy (valuation) 295 
at fair value 24 
credit quality 126, 128, 191 
net income from 313 
not at fair value 357 
Financial investments 365 
accounting policy 40, 301 
gains less losses from 25 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 381 
Financial risks (insurance) 175, 205 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 400 
Financial statements 278 
Five-year comparison 18, 32 
Footnotes 95, 185, 214, 290 
Forbearance 133, 192 
Foreclosures 125 
Foreign currencies/exchange 167 
accounting policy 309 
exposures 392 
rates 18, 32 
Funding sources (diversity) 161 
Funds under management 94 
G 
Geographical regions 59 
Global businesses 44 
Global Banking and Markets 45, 51 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Global People Survey 243 
Global Private Banking 45, 54 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Glossary 423 
Going concern 243 
Goodwill  
accounting policy 39, 305 
and intangible assets 371, 375 
Governance codes 229 
Group Audit Committee 230 
Group CEO’s Business Review 7 
Group Chairman’s Statement 4 
Group Management Board 230 
Group Remuneration Committee 238, 256 
Group Risk Committee 233 
H  
Health and safety 244 
Highlights 1 
Hong Kong 
balance sheet data 69, 340 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 66 
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
principal operations 66 
profit/(loss) 66, 69 
review of performance 66 
risk-weighted assets 59 
underlying/reported profit 17 
HSBC Holdings plc 
balance sheet 286, cash flow 287, credit risk 148, deferred 
tax 334, dividends 334, employee compensation 317, 325, 
financial assets and liabilities 341, financial instruments 
not at fair value 359, liquidity and funding 162, 198, 
market risk 167, 202, maturity analysis of assets and 
liabilities 391, net income from financial instruments 313, 
share plans 327, statement of changes in equity 288, 
structural foreign exchange exposures 392, subordinated 
liabilities 390, transactions with subsidiaries 412 
I 
Impairment  
accounting policy 38, 297 
allowances 135  
assessment 190  
charges 27, 140  
goodwill 372 
impaired loans and advances 133, 134 
losses as percentage of loans and advances 142 
methodologies 151, 195 
movement by industry and geographical region 137, 138 
Income statement (consolidated) 18, 279 
Information on HSBC (availability thereof) 417 
Insurance 
accounting policy 310 
balance sheet of manufacturing subsidiaries 173 
claims incurred (net) and movements in liabilities to 
policyholders 27, 314 
in 2011 171 
liabilities under contracts issued 383  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information (continued)  
Index  
 
 
434 
net earned premiums 26, 314 
products 204 
PVIF business 181 
risk management 204 
Interest income/expense (net) 20 
accounting policy 294 
average balance sheet  
sensitivity 166, 168, 201 
Interim management statements 416 
Interim results 416 
Internal control 240 
IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
comparison 291 
Investment properties 377 
Investor relations 417 
J 
Joint ventures 370 
K 
Key performance indicators 13 
L 
Latin America  
balance sheet data 92, 340 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 89 
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
principal operations 89 
profit/(loss) 89, 92, 337 
profit/(loss) by country 90 
review of performance 89 
risk-weighted assets 59 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Lease commitments 400 
accounting policy 307 
Legal 
proceedings and regulatory matters 405 
risk 203 
Leveraged finance transactions 155, 405 
Liabilities 34 
average balance sheet 20 
by geographical region 340 
deferred tax 332 
five years 32 
maturity analysis 391 
other 383 
retirement benefit 317 
subordinated 387 
trading 381 
underlying/reported reconciliation 35 
Life insurance business 204 
Liquidity and funding 157 
in 2011 157 
insurance 180, 208 
management of risk 159, 196, 197 
policies and procedures 196 
primary sources of funding 196 
Loans and advances 
accounting policy 296 
by country 111 
collateral 144 
concentration of exposure 108 
credit quality of 126 
delinquency in the US 126 
impairment 27, 134-144 
modifications and re-ageing 131 
past due 128 
renegotiated 129  
to banks by geographical region 111 
 
 
to customers by industry sector and geographical  
region 109, 110 
write-off 190 
M 
Madoff 406 
Market capitalisation 3 
Market risk 163, 198 
in 2011 163 
insurance 176, 206 
sensitivity analysis 199 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 391 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 105 
Middle East and North Africa 
balance sheet data 80, 340 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 77 
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
principal operations 77 
profit/(loss) 77, 80, 337 
profit/(loss) by country 78 
review of performance 77 
risk-weighted assets 59 
underlying/reported profit 17 
wholesale lending 119 
Money market funds 404 
Monoline insurers 154 
Mortgages 
lending 121 
mortgage-backed securities 194 
N 
Nomination committee 238 
Non-controlling interests 393 
Non-interest income  
accounting policy 295 
Non-life insurance business 204 
Non-money market investment funds 404 
Non-trading portfolios 165 
North America 
balance sheet data 86, 340 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 82  
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
mortgage lending 122 
personal lending 124 
principal operations 82 
profit/(loss) 82, 86, 88, 337 
profit/(loss) by country 83 
review of performance 83 
risk-weighted assets 59 
underlying/reported profit 17 
O 
Operating expenses 29 
Operating income 26, 52, 341 
Operating profit 315 
Operational risk 202 
in 2011 170  
Organisational structure chart 418 
Other 55 
Outlook 9 
P 
Payment protection insurance 386 
Pension plans 317 
accounting policy 308 
defined benefit plans 167, 202, 321 
 
   
 
435 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
for directors 271 
risk 184 
Performance in 2011 257 
Personal lending 119, 121 
Pillar 1, 2 and 3 216, 217 
Preference shares 393 
Preferred securities 32 
Principal activities 10 
Products and services 44  
Profit before tax 
by country 61, 72, 78, 83 
by geographical region 59, 60, 64, 66, 69, 71, 75, 77, 80, 
82, 86, 89, 92, 337 
by global business 43, 46, 48, 51, 54, 57, 64, 67, 69, 75, 
80, 86, 92 
consolidated 18, 279 
data 18, 339 
underlying/reported reconciliations 16 
Project Merlin 50 
Property, plant and equipment 94, 376 
accounting policy 306 
Provisions 386 
accounting policy 42, 309 
PVIF 181, 311 
R 
Ratios  
advances to core funding 14, 159, capital 2, credit 
coverage 3, cost efficiency 3, 14, 30, 57, 64, 69, 75, 80, 86, 
92, dividends per share 2, earnings per share 2, 279, 
financial 2, key performance indicators 14, performance 3, 
risk adjusted revenue growth 15, return on average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity 14, 18 
Regulation and supervision  
future developments 212 
investigations 407, 409 
Related party transactions 410 
Remuneration  
committee 238, 256, fixed pay 260, members 256, policy 
245, regulation 259, report 256, reward strategy 256, 
variable pay pool 258 
Renegotiated loans 129, 192 
Representations and warranties 156 
Repricing gap 168 
Reputational risk 183, 209 
Rest of Asia-Pacific 
balance sheet data 75 
collateral 144-147 
customer accounts 36 
economic background 71 
lending 110, 111, 121, 123 
loan impairment charges/allowances 135 
principal operations 71 
profit/(loss) 71, 75, 337 
profit/(loss) by country 75 
review of performance 72 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 44, 46, 88 
underlying/reported profit 17 
Rights issue  
accounting policy 312 
Risk  
appetite 234, committee 233, compliance 203, contingent 
liquidity 161, counterparty 350, credit 104, 189, credit 
spread 165, dispute 102, economic 102, eurozone 99, 
factors 12, foreign exchange 167, gap risk 165, 
geopolitical 100, governance 188, information security 
103, insurance operations 171, 204, legal 203, liquidity 
and funding 157, management of 98, 188, market 163, 
operational 170, 202, pension 184, 209, policies and 
practices 188, 196, profile 98, regulatory 100, reputational 
183, 209, scenario stress testing 188, 236, security and 
fraud 203, social media 103, sustainability 184, 210, top 
and emerging 13, 99, 235 
Risk-weighted assets 32, 43, 59 
movement in 2011 211 
RoRWA (reconciliation of measures) 37 
Run-off portfolio 46 
S 
Sale and repurchase agreements 
accounting policy 303 
Securities held for trading 108 
Securitisations 149, 194, 404 
Security and fraud risk 203 
Segmental analysis 336 
accounting policy 295 
Senior management 
biographies 223 
changes 267 
remuneration 269 
Share-based payments 327 
accounting policy 308 
Share capital 249, 394 
accounting policy 312 
during 2011 251 
notifiable interests in 254 
ownership guidelines 267 
rights and obligations 249 
Share information 3 
Share plans 
discretionary plans 245 
for directors 261 
for employees 245, 329 
HSBC Bank Bermuda plans 247, 397 
HSBC Finance plans 247, 396 
HSBC France plans 246, 395 
Performance Shares and Restricted Share awards 265 
Shareholder (communications with) 228 
profile 415 
Special purpose entities 401 
Staff numbers 29 
Statement of changes in equity 283 
Statement of comprehensive income 280 
Stock symbols 417 
Strategic direction 8, 11, 46, 48, 51, 54 
Structural foreign exchange exposure 166, 201 
Subsidiaries 378 
accounting policy 305 
Supplier payment policy 253 
Sustainability committee governance risk 184, 210 
T 
Tax 
accounting policy 41, 307 
deferred tax 331 
expense 31 
of shares and dividends 419 
reconciliation 331 
Tier 1 capital 212 
Total shareholder return 3, 267 
Trading assets 345 
accounting policy 300 
Trading income (net) 23 
Trading liabilities 381 
accounting policy 300 
Trading portfolios 163, 200 
U 
Underlying performance 16 
US budget deficit 118 
V 
Value at risk 164 
Values (HSBC) 9, 13 
W 
Wholesale lending 112 
   
436 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited liability under the UK Companies Act 
Registered in England: number 617987 
REGISTERED OFFICE AND  
GROUP HEAD OFFICE 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 (0) 20 7991 8888 
Facsimile: 44 (0) 20 7992 4880 
Web: www.hsbc.com 
REGISTRARS 
Principal Register 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 
United Kingdom 
Email: via website  
Web: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus  
Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services 
   Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th
 floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
Web: www.computershare.com/hk/investors 
Bermuda Overseas Branch Register 
Investor Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Web: www.computershare.com/investor/bm 
ADR Depositary 
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 
PO Box 358516  
Pittsburgh 
PA15252 - 8516 
USA 
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Web: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
Paying Agent (France) 
HSBC France 
103 avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France 
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-
do@hsbc.fr 
Web: www.hsbc.fr 
 
STOCKBROKERS 
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom 
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2012 
All rights reserved 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, 
or otherwise, without the prior written permission of 
HSBC Holdings plc. 
Published by Group Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, 
London 
Cover designed by Black Sun Plc, London; text pages 
designed by Group Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, 
London, and by Communications (Asia),  
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, Hong Kong 
Printed by Service Point UK Limited, London 
 Photography 
 Cover by Matthew Mawson 
 Group Chairman by George Brooks 
 Group Chief Executive by George Brooks 
 
  HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com
